count to five... one, two, three, four, five... and you... one, two,
three, four, five... okay, whenever you’re ready... cool, right, go
on... I don’t need a pen... what is your best or funniest memory from
when you were young?... erm, don’t even know, I can’t even remember
being young... no, neither can I... erm young do you remember our
Science lessons, they were well good... yeah, I love Science, mm...
fun, fun, fun... ah glad we don’t go school anymore though... I know,
I was talking to the other day about erm, and how she used to send
everyone to the unit... doesn’t it feel weird saying that?... ,...
isn’t it, I said - I saw and it felt well weird saying the other
day... Wetherspoons... no, it were- we weren’t in Wetherspoons, was
with and they were walking past the pub that I was in, can’t remember
which pub it was in **inc**... oh right, I think he works at
Wetherspoons, cos I went in there and he ID’d me, and I was like, ‘I
was in your year at school’... I was just like, ‘hiya ’... yeah...
yeah, it’s well weird seeing some-... and mm... yeah, I saw him
yesterday I was like, ‘hi’, and like, ‘you work here?’ and then told
me like,... , yeah... yeah... just shocking... good who was your
favourite teacher at school?... don’t think I had one... yeah, that
makes sense... **inc**... was pretty good though, he was funny... oh,
do you remember woodwork do you remember doing woodwork... problem
rubbish at woodwork... mine were always shocking... I remember I made
one for my Dad, you know that frame, with a flower in it... I didn’t
do that... for valentine’s day... we didn’t do that... I don’t know
why I made it my Dad... it’s a bit weird that, now that I think about
it, it’s a bit weird yeah, and now I don’t know where it is but, I
made a plane... I’ve still got some of my stuff... I made a plane...
I’ve got my plane, painted it pink... but I don’t know where it’s
gone... mines at m- my house... I think it’s like, left it in the old
house... oh, I’ll have to show you actually when you come round to my
house... what, your plane?... I still got it, and there’s a little box
thing that I made, it was proper shocking,... money box? Yeah... no it
was just a normal box and with a lid... oh, we made a money box... and
like, it’s not like even sort of thing, it’s a bit wonky... oh
right... and painted that was painted mostly pink as well, don’t know
why... **inc**... I remember making the bird feeders and th- you never
put the thing on it... mesh thing... and we never got it back, so, I
was a bit gutted at the time... I’m sure I did, cos I’m sure I put
nuts in it... you probably did, I- I was gutted that I didn’t get it
back... how’s ?... mm... yeah, he’s alright... aww... bless him...
he’s growing up, really, really quick... I can’t believe he’s one
one... is that your brother?... nephew... aww... he’s so cute... he
is... aww, he’s gorgeous... we’re walking round Trafford Centre, erm,
and my sister was trying to get some trainers or something, so me and
are walking round Trafford Centre and some of the looks we were
getting, like we were young Mum... oh no... which reminds me right, on
Saturday, I was at Granddad’s club and I was with this little kid,
babysitting sort of thing while person was working behind the bar, so
I sat there with it, and some of the looks I was getting as well
then... oh... like it was my kid, sat next to me, well funny... aww, I
used to like that... yeah... in a weird way... go like, ‘oh yeah, this
is mine’... yeah, when the babies are right there it sort of does make
you want a kid but then... eurgh... but then after that, there was
this little kid-... you like giving them back though... there was this
little kid, and bloody screaming I thought, ‘yep, that makes you not
want a kid’... yeah... ahh... aww... they are cute though... makes me
laugh ahh, we went to Gap, we went erm, on Saturday, went and took
round, aww I took my boyfriend round to see my family and then, you
know them lanterns we like, tried to light one of them lanterns... oh,
it was the most embarrassing thing... why?... and it just- you know
the bit, the square bit what you light, it just fell off, I was like,
‘this is not good’... oh no... like, patting it out on the grass, I
was like, oops... and then we lit- finally lit one, and it like flew
off, and then it was like stuck in a tree... we was like, ‘oh my God,
it’s gonna set the tree on fire’... ‘it’s gonna set the tree on fire’
but then, it like flew off and we was like- my Granddad was stood
there going, ‘I’m not happy about this, I’m not happy about this, it’s
gonna set next door on fire’... I was like, ‘Granddad, chill out,
it’ll blow away soon’... it was so funny oh it was funny... did they
like your boyfriend?... they was, ahh they didn’t really see him cos I
was like, ‘no, we’ll go and sit in this room’... ‘I don’t really wanna
sit with all them’, cos they wouldn’t stop asking questions... you
know what they’re like... was there?... **inc**... no, she said she
was gonna be cos she didn’t- w- she said I think she was alright going
round to or something... mm... then she was like, ‘I don’t really
fancy going out’ I was like, ‘ooh, go round to Gran’s, I’ll be there
at about eight’ she’s like, ‘right, okay, I’ll see you there then’,
and she just didn’t turn up, I was like, ‘alright’... so I was sat
there with with all the kids... was- it was great... babysitting...
proper getting terrored though ooh, they just bully me all the time...
**inc** yeah, they’re just like, ‘oh, he seems lovely’, I was like,
‘he is’... they always say that don’t they... everyone loves my
boyfriend... ahh... more than me probably... I know... been nearly
three years... wow, crazy... that’s a long time that isn’t it?...
yeah... gone quick though... mm... look at them dogs... pink dog...
ahh, that’s just mean... imagine walking that down the road?... would
be embarrassing you’d be like, ‘it’s not mine’... you can-... ‘I’m
just walking it’... can imagine the owner having that colour hair as
well couldn’t you?... yeah... dressed to match... oh it’s hard talking
when you don’t really kn- like... under pressure... it is under
pressure... I can’t think of anything to say... try one of them I
always think I don’t like **inc** they’re- they’re alright... did you
ever do anything after school?... erm, detention... yeah-... apart
from that not really... no, neither did I, I don’t think... I think-
no, I thi- actually I think I joined the rounders team, I was pretty
good at rounders, was quite- the only thing I was good at... really...
yeah, I didn’t like PE, I only liked it when we started going to the
gym... I know, and you didn’t really do anything, you just stood in
the gym going, ‘hm, champ’... me and you are just stood there like
this... on the- on the running machine, and you’re just having a
stroll... yeah... we were just there talking weren’t we... it was
good... go to the gym now though actually take it serious... I don’t,
I just don’t- I just don’t do exercise, it’s not really for me I don’t
think... I’m tired... did you ever do drama?... me? no... yeah... I’d
hate it... neither did I, right but everyone’s got like a lesson now,
full of drama, like just for drama... what, in like year seven and
everything?... yeah... cos was like, ‘oh yeah, we was in drama the
other day’ I was like, ‘you had drama?’ cos we didn’t have it...
**inc**... I think it’s cos it’s an arts and thingy college... yeah...
at erm, school, isn’t it... I was like, ‘oh, I would’ve liked
drama’... mm... what you liked it or didn’t?... no, I would of,
yeah... ah well... quite good at acting I think... hate these
adverts... you know, right, on the first day, I remember Mum walks me
and to the bus stop, then stood there until the bus came, it was so
embarrassing,... and then she like asked one of the year elevens, she
was like, ‘oh, will you take care of these and make sure they get to
school alright’ I was like, fucks sake, ‘Mum, this is so
embarassing’... that’s just reminded me of something that, on my first
day, I got my sister to do my tie, cos y- y- you didn’t have it the
right way, did you?... no, you had it the wrong way... you had that
little, small bit there... yeah... so now I did that, got to form, had
, do you remember ?... oh yeah,... she bloody made us blooming undo
it... I didn’t know how to do a bloody tie neither... oh no... so I
was there, undone this tie, and I’m thinking, ‘how do you do it?’...
just tie it in a knot... too- t- t- took me ages to figure out- get
used to doing it... we used to, right, you know when, like, year seven
you had them little tiny ones then year eleven you got them big huge
ones... yeah, but it was dead small like... yeah... mmhmm... yeah...
oh God don’t know what we was thinking... **inc** I know, just as we
come they got the blazers as well... we had blazers... no, that’s what
I mean, just as we got there, that’s when they got them... oh yeah...
oh yeah... cos my sister didn’t have to have one until we started
coming, our year, they just brought them in... I quite like my blazer,
I’m not gonna lie... it had places to put things... I looked pretty
good in it... it was horrible in summer though when they made you wear
your jumper and blazer... and your blazer... no, really?... yeah...
and you had to ask to take it off... ahh... it was horrible you
couldn’t just take it off, no... you’re really hot though... I know,
it was horrible, like on the- we were allowed to on the yard... it was
stupid yeah, but like, in classrooms though it’s always warmer isn’t
it... mm... mm... **inc**... but they’re not exactly gonna say no are
they well, they can’t really... so I don’t know why you had to ask...
yeah... I know ‘no, you can’t’... ‘keep it on’... you’re still gonna
take it off... I’m going to anyway, so... exactly... remember getting
the cream eggs actually at Easter... I remember when made me cry...
no... ah, that was horrible, cos like, I’d had a really bad morning,
you know like with my Mum and stuff... mm... and then I went in, and I
was wearing a leather jacket, and I was thinking, ‘ahh’, and I saw her
walking down the corridor towards me, I was like, ‘oh my God, she’s
gonna say something’... it’s cos you had to wear a black coat...
ooh... and I was stood there, and I was like, and she was like, going
at me in my face, and I was like, ‘uhh, shut up’, and then I just
cried, I was like, ‘ahh’... how embarra- I hate that... it was
horrible she went, ‘right, take- ta- take your jacket off’, I went,
‘it’s raining outside’, she went, ‘I don’t care, take your jacket
off’, I was like... dead stupid... ‘alright’... and them white
socks... white socks... you know when you’re wearing pants white
socks... cause like but, why would you wear white socks?... yeah...
they look ridiculous... but everyone used to just wear black socks
anyway, and in... yeah... year eleven we were allowed to weren’t
we?... but why would you have to wear white socks?... I don’t know,
she went... it’s alright with a skirt, because... yeah... it looks
alright, but... it looks alright, but, ahh, it’s like... pants, black,
white, black... oh no... that’s ridiculous... Michael Jackson style...
yeah... yeah used to get told off for it all the time black socks
looked nice though... mm... was really strict actually if you think
about it... I know... do you remember? cos they used to pick at
anything didn’t they... mm... ‘don’t do this, don’t do that’... do you
remember, cos you used to roll your skirt up didn’t you?... yeah,
obviously... si- so it’s not like, down below your knee... yeah...
yeah... and she stopped me and in the hall, and she was like, ‘right,
girls, have you got your skirts rolled up?’ I was like, ‘no, it just
won’t go past my hip’ like, she was like, ‘that’s clearly a lie’, I
was like, ‘okay’... and she was like, ‘right, lift your s- lift your
shirts up, I wanna see your skirts’... I was like... ‘see’... and then
we’d walk past and she’d make us do our ties, have our skirts long,
ah, it was so embarrassing,... mm... and you’d walk down the corridor
and you’d be like, roll it back up... remember when they used to make
you tuck your shirts in as well... mm oh God, wouldn’t mind it with
pants though, just looked silly with a skirt... yeah, well... mm...
normally had a jumper on over it so you couldn’t tell anyway... so
they didn’t normally notice, unless it was like, hanging out... tuck
it under your jumper... see they’re the things I don’t miss about
school... school uniform... mm... I’m not gonna lie, I quite liked
school uniform, cos it was green... mm... but that’s only cos it’s
like my favourite colour... I like wanted a green car but... the only
one I could get was blue... you can paint it, paint it... my Dad, the
other day came round and he’s got a green car, I was like,... ‘oh
right, you couldn’t find me a green car, but you could get yourself a
green car’... ‘thanks Dad’... yeah, I went, ‘can we swap’, he went,
‘Claudia , the insurance on this is gonna be sky high’, I was like,...
I know I need a car... ‘yeah’... ahh... sky high already... I need a
job first actually... mm... passed in December and no car still...
**inc** mm... it’s horrible... I don’t know what I’d do now if I
didn’t have a car... I know... that’s the thing... they’re horrible,
cos I don’t walk anywhere, ever... it’s like that with though, because
I always get lifts everywhere so th- that time when his car weren’t
working, it was horrible... ooh... just like not having your car for a
week... I don’t know what I’d do, I’d probably just sit in the house
all the time... ah, I can’t believe I dreamt that you said that you
were getting the bus down... today?... yeah... yeah, I had to check my
messages... in my dream I read a text saying, ‘I’m just leaving a bit
earlier cos I’m getting the bus down’ so I was think- I remember
thinking, ‘oh, what’s wrong with her car then?’... and I had to look
and I think it- it weren’t there... she got in the car and I went,...
‘Erin , do you even know me?’, the last time I got the bus was high
school... well that’s what I thought was weird... ahh... funny I can’t
decide whether I like him or not mm... hmm not watched- I need to
catch up on corrie actually went to Ibiza... ooh,... so I’ve missed
everything... how was it?... It was good actually... did you go with
friends?... my boyfriend... oh, very nice... hmm... Claudia’s going
away in October aren’t you?... with my Mum... and my Gran and my
Granddad... oh no... I know, Mum was like-... so you’re not going
clubbing?... my Mum- Mum was like, ‘are you ready to hit the town with
me’ I was like... ‘no’... then me Aunty yesterday she was like, ‘what
if your Mum pulled’, I was like,... no... ‘that’s what I want’... ‘no,
no’... so, I went, ‘I’m not even going out with her’... ‘what if she
pulled?’... ah, that’s horrible that... couldn’t even imagine it... I
don’t want to... I know... ahh she’s dead excited though don’t know
why, she was like, ‘ahh, it’s gonna be a holiday with just us’, I was
like, ‘yeah’... it will be nice... yeah, it should be alright,
wouldn’t really do anything... mm... sit by the pool, relax... better
than being over here anyway... in the rain... yeah... God, it’s
horrible... will be in October anyway... mm... yeah... Mum and Dad go
away the same time as she goes away... ahh, you’re gonna be lonely...
I know ahh,... well you’ll just have to drink on your own again...
can’t wait for Christmas, can’t wait for Chris- it’s nearly
Christmas... it’s like four months away... it is actually, cos it is
the eighth month isn’t it, I didn’t know it was that close actually...
my cousin told me, he went, what did he say? He said there’s something
like hundred and thirty three days or something, I was like...
what?... it’s a bit- bit precise there... bit extreme... not been
counting down or anything... oh God... I’m not really that excited for
Christmas anymore... why?... I don’t know... I’m still like a little
kid at Christmas, wake up dead early I; ahh... like, last year was a
bit of a let down... I don’t even know what I got, what did you
get?... dunno... I don’t know why I even know what I get anymore...
oh, I don’t know either... no idea... ooh, I wanna know what I got
now, I can’t think... for Christmas?... what did you get for
Christmas... erm, a Nintendo DS actually... hm... I know, I’ve- and
I’ve used it like twice... yeah... **inc**... I hate that, I was like,
‘, do you wanna buy this off me’... he was like, ‘no, I’ve only g-
I’ve got my own’, I was like, ‘oh’... gutted... alright, ebay it is...
turn the light on, it’s getting dark... yeah... I was talking to last
night, I was like, ‘got any gossip about from school?’ it- she was
like, ‘not really’, I was like, ‘how can you not have gossip about
someone’... I wonder what actually like in school... I know... I
remember you telling me that he got kicked out of that other school...
got kicked out of didn’t he... did he?... yep... why?... erm, long
story,... basically he set a bin on fire and then... and then
apparently he tried to put it out with deodorant, I was like,...
what... ‘what an idiot’... you’re not- right- he’s not stupid is
he?... no... clearly know that it’s gonna make the fire worse... what
was it one of the inside ones?... I think so, and that’s even worse,
cos like could’ve set the whole classroom on fire... I was like,
‘what- what are you even thinking when you do this stuff?’ he was
like, ‘I don’t know, I just do it’, I was like, ‘alright’... he’s
meant to be the brainy one as well... I know... oh no... God... yeah
he- but he keeps saying, ‘other people were with me’, and I was like,
‘well, why didn’t you say that?’ he went, ‘cos I didn’t wanna tell-
tell off anyone’, I was like, ‘probably wouldn’t have got kicked out
then if it was other people’... a group effort, yeah... yeah... that’s
annoying... mm but I don’t- I don’t think he’s bothered really cos
he’s got like loads of friends now, cos they are, cos obviously, the
people from live in... yeah... so, now he goes to the one he’s got all
his mates in I; mm... so, it’s pretty good and he’s always out now, so
like... yeah... got the house to myself in the day,... when he’s off,
and it’s like-... I love having the house to myself... I know boring
though... I’m glad my sister’s moved out actually... she moved out at
Christmas... oh... Mum keeps telling me to move out, she’s like, ‘so
when are you gonna get a full time job’... ‘when are you moving out?’,
‘Mum, I don’t know’, ‘you need to think about it don’t you’, I was
like... ‘stop pushing me’... ‘why?’... oh God do you remember him, on
that magic show? What was it called?... yeah tricky TV- tricky TV,...
yeah, yeah... yeah, it’s sad that I know that... it is a little bit
sad, a little bit sad... Tricky T-... do you remember Art Attack? That
was good... oh, yeah which one was that one that died? Was he out of
Art Attack? Or Smart?... Smart... Was it Smart? Oh... I used to love
watching all them programmes... mmhmm... what did you do in your
summer holidays like, in school?... erm, like now?... no, in school...
oh, in school... yeah... I dunno, bit far away to remember... you know
where is, you know she’s got that big field outside her house...
yeah... we used to sit on there in the summer, like, just sit there...
I can’t even remember what we used to do, we used to just sit there,
and you know when you used to play music on your phone... used to go
out with was and and all that go out with us... yeah... yeah... who
else, someone else did as well can’t remember... yeah... ah, I
remember the first Friday that I got drunk on the park... ooh... it
wasn’t very nice actually, it was quite scary... ahh... cause like
everyone else was out wasn’t they, and it’s like, mm, okay, so we just
went and sat on my friends grass outside her house... and then my
friend, you know... mm... I think that’s what he’s called... , yeah...
yeah he like jumped on the cars and like ran across them... we was
like, ‘oh my God you can’t do that’... oh my God,... I was like, I
didn’t know what to do, I was like, ‘ probably should get down’ but
yeah, and then I think it- I think it was who got beat up that
night... ah no... I know... I think I remember him coming into school
actually... yeah... saying that he was beat up... yeah... or summet on
them lines... and him and and mm, they got together, but like, didn’t
really get together... **inc**... I know it was weird... they like
kissed and everything and then, just nothing, I was like, mm... God, I
remember that... it was alright, cos they both liked each other, you
could proper tell but then nothing... remember when and were together
actually... and they went into a bush t- just to kiss... bloody hell
you look back now and you’re like, what the hell... I know, mm, in a
bush... I thought you was gonna say summet else then... no I;... ooh,
okay... ah, no... yeah... at least United won yesterday anyway I
weren’t paying much attention to the match... I don’t know... I was
just drinking... did you go to the pub to watch it?... yeah, drinking
from twelve ‘til like nine... oh no, headache today... I got very
drunk, no, I don’t get hangovers to be honest but... nice... she’s
lucky all the time... I’ve not stopped drinking f- since I’ve back-
been back off holiday, I come back on f- was it... Friday... Friday
morning so, went for ten days and I’ve not stopped drinking... this is
me first day that I’m not having a drink... it’s cos you’ve got none
left... I know-... b- I have, I have, I’ve not drank any at- th- that
was all spent at the pub... jeez... ah, I’ve still got that vodka at
home, got a litre bottle of vodka, ten ninety five euro... wow... it’s
good that isn’t it... Smirn Off... I think it’s like eighteen in
Tesco... was that duty free?... yeah... **inc**... so I- I thought,
‘right, I’ll get that’... yeah... it’s good... went round on Friday, I
thought, ‘I’ll have a bit,... ‘go on, I’ll share’... did, didn’t we
went- went to Trafford Centre, then went to Asda, had to carry all the
bags, through- back to the Trafford Centre didn’t we... she went,
‘it’s alright, we’ll walk to Asda from Selfridges’, right, okay... and
then when we **inc**-... and then we got there, it was like, ‘we’re
gonna have to carry all these bags through the Trafford Centre back to
the car’... oh no... I forgot that we weren’t at- parked at Asda as
well until like we just got hold of the bags, I thought, ‘oh, we’ve
gotta walk through Trafford-’... cause I was like walking to the car,
and she went, ‘Claudia where you going? We’re going Selfridges’, I was
like, ‘what do you mean, I’m gonna get my car, to drive to Asda’, she
went, ‘no, we’ll walk, we’ll walk’... God... we both didn’t know where
we were going, I was gonna walk out a blooming different exit, weren’t
I... to try and get to Asda... ahh... and it’s through Selfridges...
yeah, it’s further than you think as well, isn’t it... yeah and then I
think-... and we had to find which way it was, cos it- we were parked,
was it at John Lewis?... yeah... I know we always get mixed up
between... oh no... like Debenhams and John Lewis... you can see us
walking all the way to Debenhams and thinking... it’s at the other
end... it’s the other end... Peter Andre makes me laugh... yeah... ah,
I wish he was my Dad... I want Celebrity Juice to come back on
actually... funny **inc**... is that not back on next month, I’m sure
it’s September it comes back on... I don’t know... makes me laugh
though Inbetweeners is out on the seventeenth, the movie... I know...
**inc**... I’m so excited... I can’t wait to watch that... the
trailers look good don’t they... yeah, have you seen the bit where
Neil’s dancing in that club?... no... doing the robot?... oh my God,
it’s so funny... well the only bloody trailer I’ve seen, which was a
while ago now, cos I remember looking on youtube was where they’re
just bloody walking through a town, weren’t the greatest trailer... oh
yeah, I’ve seen that... just watching them walk, I was thinking, ‘this
is a great time to advertise a film’ you know, if someone’s not seen
it... ah, I’ve seen loads of different ones, like-... oh, I’m gonna
have to search it now... where he squirts aftershave down his pants
and then screams, yeah... I can imagine that’d hurt... yeah, we went
to Thorpe Park on Friday and it just reminded me of that... where he’s
got- he’s carrying the door around with him... yeah... ah, you should
paint your door a different colour... yeah, you should... no... cause
there’s just one door isn’t there that’s different... ahh, I don’t
understand why he carries it round with him... why doesn’t he just
like, leave it on the car, it’s not gonna make a difference whether
he’s still got it or not... and no-one’s really gonna steal a door...
you never know... someone’d steal the car, cos it’s not got a door...
mm, true... can’t believe I’ve come back to Manchester and it’s
horrible, was nice while I was away... I know... well, come back and
it’s horrible again... I even got a suntan, I was like, ahh,... yes...
come on suntan... just, and then I thought, I’m gonna have to top it
up with fake tan... yeah... oh, do you remember them... when you used
to go to like Wacky Warehouse or something, and big ball pools and
stuff... ball pits, ahh... you went down the slide and went straight
into... I’d always be scared of going in there you know, cos kids are
in there, and they... yeah... like could poo and... stuff... I never
thought about that... I thought you were gonna say kids hiding... no,
I’m not even bothered about, ooh, imagine like eurgh, an old man...
what... in the ball pit... Claudia y-... no, have you seen, ah, do you
watch the Big Bang Theory? Oh, it’s so funny that, have you seen the
one where Sheldon goes in the ball pit,... yeah... oh it’s so funny,
and he’s like going down, and then Leonard’s trying to catch him and
he pops up and he goes, ‘the zinger’... so funny, oh, I love Sheldon
makes me laugh... don’t even know what they’re doing in there...
having fun in a ball pit... proper fancy McDonalds... mm... mm... you
had it the other day didn’t you actually? Oh no, you didn’t... no, I
had Chin-... you had that Chinese didn’t you, I forgot... oh my God,
went Trafford Centre, had a Chinese, and it was so spicy... was it?...
my mouth was on fire... oh it re- I was sat there with every mouthful
just going... was really nice though... you still ate it... I actually
ate all of it you know... **inc**... got to really... is it
expensive?... it was five ninety-nine... six pound and-... it weren’t
too bad... yeah... did you eat all them peanuts you got?... no, I took
them back right, I don’t know why, I was craving peanuts... it’s a
weird thing, and I ate about four, and then I thought, I don’t even
want them anymore... so then I took them round to my Gran’s
seventieth, and I was like, ‘I’ve got some peanuts here’, she was
like, ‘ooh, put some in bowls’, I was like, ‘alright’ **inc**... ah
knew I should’ve got the small bag... yeah... it was a huge bag, it
was like this big... you’re like, there’s not- there’s-... there’s not
enough in this one... it was huge though that bag... I know... you
know they don’t do chocolate erm,... peanuts?... peanuts in Asda...
they do or don’t... don’t... what? Strange... I know, I w- that’s what
I was looking for, I was like, cos I wanted some chocolate ones, you
know, cos they’re nice... yeah... and didn’t have any... there was
none... I was like, ‘oh’, gutted... little bit erm... I was talking to
about the toilets in school... oh... do you remember when everyone
used to go in and smoke in them... yep, th- the ones were worse near-
round that other side... mm... past the... where they always played
football, can’t think of where it was... it’s like, do you remember
used to bring- used to bring a toilet roll into school?... I don’t
remember this... **inc** cos he used to always have a poo... in
school, I was like, ‘ooh, that’s nasty’... was it had that rumour...
oh, yeah... don’t know if it is true... some lad poo- did he poo
himself?... yeah... in school... used his boxers as well to wipe...
ah, that’s disgusting... apparently it was all over the toilet seat
and everything... ah... ah that- ah that’d be so embarrassing... ew do
you remember... ah, the Art teacher?... yeah... took everyone’s
chocolate and food and... yeah... and then didn’t give it them back
**inc**... cause he was- was he diabetic or something?... yeah... and
he used to say that he needed like, chocolate so when like... someone
came in with a bar of chocolate, he’d be like, ‘you’re not allowed to
eat that in here’ so he’d take it off them... and eat it himself...
and then eat it himself, and it’s like, ‘didn’t pay for that or
anything’... didn’t give him money, didn’t give him money or anything,
just took it off him... that’s bad... I know God I seen him the other
day actually... did you?... yeah where did I see him? think it was
Trafford Centre didn’t know who he was... yeah... I used to love
tomato ketchup actually... did you ?... don’t worry, it was the
advert... anyone listening to this is gonna think I’m really random...
**inc**... don’t like it no more though... why?... I dunno, I think
it- I might- must’ve had it too much when I was younger... and gone
off it... I am really fussy... oh, no... really fussy... like what?...
what do you not like?... in high school she used to have jam butties
every single day... didn’t you?... I just don’t like anything on my
sandwich, do I?... no... and now I just have bread and butter cos
there’s too much sugar in jam... well that’s when I go to- when I went
college and stuff... funny... yeah... ahh, them paninis in college,
they were nice should’ve tried one, they were nice... yeah... mm...
don’t think I would’ve liked them... ham and cheese panini... mm...
mm, could- oh, I could eat one of them now... ahh, why don’t you go
college and get one... not that it’s gonna be open but still... no...
get one when we go and get r- our results next Thursday... oh, no...
oh God, yeah... it’s so close... how do you feel?... erm,... I haven’t
got a clue... I don’t think I’ve failed any... that’s good... but I
don’t think I dunno don’t think I’ve done really badly just not
great... mm... it’s hard though, isn’t it... aye... very hard... are
you nervous?... yeah I don’t wanna go in... I am... and see all my
teachers though... cause they’ll be like, ‘oh what did you get, what
did you get’ and I’m like, ‘an E’... they’ll just be like, ‘oh’...
it’s annoy- it’s annoying though when people get good grades and
they’re like, ‘this is really shocking’... I know... you know when
like, say they get a B or an A or like, C or summet, and they’re like,
‘oh, this is rubbish this’, and it’s like, it’s not rubbish... it’s
be- no, it’s not... mm it’s better than E, let’s put it that way...
but if you wanna go Uni and stuff it is important, isn’t it?... mm...
aye, I need two B’s and a C to get in Uni... mm... hopefully I will...
mm... **inc**... well, I can’t wait for everyone’s fresher’s week...
yeah... just gonna, go around... I know I can’t, but I don’t if it’s
before the like, actually Uni starts, I want my money... but they’re
not gonna give me my money, are they?... don’t know actually... what’s
that for, your loan?... yeah... it comes in just before freshers...
does it?... yeah, cos they count freshers as the start of term...
right... so you’ll have it, so... that’s good... cause I need it...
yeah... otherwise I won’t be going out much in the beginning... no,
you’ll have fun, freshers is good... mm I think I’m coming down to
Leeds... ahh... see... yeah... with... oh no... mm, I know, I went out
with him, I think it was not last Friday, the Friday before, and I
lost my phone... oh no... I know the only time I go out with my
cousins, and I loose my phone... have you got it back?... no I know,
in as well... ah... and I bet someone who took it, cos I think someone
took it,... yeah... cause like, I rang it and it was off, and I was
like,... mm... ‘someone’s took it’ ah, was so upset... is it your
Blackberry?... yeah... oh no... I was so upset... now she’s got a
Samsung, her old phone... ahh... where did you go with them?... erm,
just round , like... bars?... yeah and then I think, it was a- cos we
went to a pizza place, you know, like you do... mm... after you’ve
been out you get a bit peckish... you do anyway... so- so I must’ve
like put my phone down... ooh... and got really excited about this
pizza... and then just forgot that my phone was there, but I went back
the day after and they was like, ‘oh no, we’ve not seen it, we’ve not
seen it’, I was like, ‘probably took it haven’t you’... mm... yeah,
they probably did... so, and I went into all the pubs and everything,
but, no... that’s annoying... mm so now I’ve gotta save up for another
one... ahh... yay, fun times... and I’m skint... why are they all
pound signs on this map?... cause you can win it... oh... I don’t
know... wish I could win... money... sh-... when I win the lottery,
just don’t put it on though... I know, you should really put it on if
you wanna win it... I know... it sort of helps... that help... yeah,
yeah, little bit... I hope to win it, just don’t put it on... hmm...
Mum puts it on every week and I’d- I’d like to think that if she won,
she’d give me a little bit... I’m sure she would... mm... yeah, my M-
my Mum and Dad put it on every week... I don’t know where they get
that spare pound from... I know... I never have a spare pound, it’s
always in my car ah... you hardly ready- for anything though on it, do
they?... no, she wins like a fiver or something... every now and again
they’ll win a tenner or something... fun times... makes me laugh...
mm... made me laugh on holiday, you know like the fruit machines and
stuff that you get over here... yeah... decided to go on a foreign
one, didn’t understand it... but yeah, he decided to keep putting more
and more money in it... oh no... someone who was in my Psychology last
year, he’s got like a gambling problem... he’s like, how old is he? I
think he’s like twenty, and he’s got a gambling problem, I was like
how can you even get one at twenty... **inc**... cos he went, ‘I just
go to the casinos every weekend’, and I’m like, ‘why? W-Where do you
even get money from to do that?’... goes quite a lot to the casino...
yeah... wish I had money to go to a casino but no... yeah wish I had a
job... having a car rinses your money... mm... like anything I have
like one night out a month... ahh... I know, it’s horrible but it’s so
expensive insurance, it’s ridiculous... always is these days... got
quoted nine thousand pound... to go on my car, and I was like,... it’s
not exactly a big car... nine thousand... nine thousand, I was like...
who would pay that?... I don’t know... why so much?... I don’t know, I
think it’s cos he’s a boy, but it’s meant to have gone the same isn’t
it... mm... so, it should really be the same, cos we’re both the same
age... nine grand... I don’t know, it’s the same car... how much is
yours?... erm, just under three... you wouldn’t pay nine grand
though... it’s not exactly... no... no, I know, I was like ‘are you
sure you did it right?’, and he was like, ‘yeah’ ‘hm, alright’ nine
grand ah talking to about my scars, cos I’ve got loads all over my
knees... why?... cos I was just clumsy... I’m just clumsy all the
time, never broke anything... but I’ve got cuts and, ah, I’ve got
about four bruises now, and I’ve no idea where they’ve come from... oh
I always get bruises... it’s like, all over me I m- I must like fall
over a lot... but I just don’t remember... yeah... are they from
nights out?... probably, probably... I’ve still got that bite on my
leg it’s still like, you run over my leg and it’s like a proper bad
bump, it’s horri-... what, from insects?... yeah... mm... horrible,
hate them... ahh... told I told about , you know ,... well, everyone
knows , and he was like,... ‘really’, I was like, ‘yeah, really’...
have you seen her? Recently... yeah, she’s got a- she came to my
Gran’s thing on Saturday and she had purple hair... purple playsuit...
purple tights, and I was like... nice... ‘do you think she’s like
purple at the moment?’... but then she had pink crocs on, I was
like,... oh no... what are you doing with your life?... **inc** it’s
embarrassing... mm... and then you know, we all had like, stickers on,
name tags... nice... just in case people didn’t know who we are...
Claudia’s is in the car... as it’s asked the whole family... ‘,
granddaughter’... it was like, ‘this is ridiculous’, and erm, came...
oh no... ‘, partner’, I was like, ‘ooh, cringe’... she looks like a
man doesn’t she... does she?... ahh, disgusting, right she had all her
hair, cos she’s grown her hair, she had it all scraped back in a
pony... oh, has she grown it?... and she had a suit on, not a sui- not
a suit, like a shirt and jeans, and I was like she’s proper- if you
didn’t know that she was a girl, she’s- she’s a man... yeah... she
looks like a man... oh no... it’s like, ‘oh my God’, it’s
embarrassing... well, she’s starting to grow her hair... ah, it’s
embarrassing... ahh... I was telling him, and he was like, ‘oh right’
he went, ‘my cousins- my sisters a lesbian’ I was like, ‘oh, right’
‘thanks’... go round to his house, and they like they they’ll sit and
talk about her, she’s not- she doesn’t live there... oh... and they’ll
sit and talk about her and it- they’ll be dead horrible about her, and
it’s like ‘that’s a bit harsh’... so, I don’t know what to say but
they swear, all the time his family... do they?... and I’m sat there,
cos, we don’t swear, well, do sometimes but like, not in front of like
your Mum... yeah... and I was like, sat there and they just, ah, every
other word, and I was like, ‘oh my God, I don’t know what to do’...
I’m just sat there like... ‘alright’ cos it’s dead weird they’re dead
nice though... that’s good... at least you get on with them... mm...
do you get on with your boyfriend’s parents?... yeah aye, I get on
with all his family... oh, that’s good... ah, so tired... want my
bed... my mouth’s dead dry now from talking... have you got water?...
yeah, I’ve still got some... good... ah, right... my mouth was worse
cos I was drinking yesterday... I think the weather is making- it’s
making my lips dead dry... mm... and then they’re dead sore... my
throat was dead sore cos it was dry the other day... what are local
people like?... not very friendly, not really... ah, that reminds me,
in the pub yesterday I was just sat at this table, and his Dad were
stood at the bar there-... at ?... no... oh... this was just at...
**inc**... this was like at twelve o’clock and... this lad called...
and this old man there, so I was- I was just sat there, this per- lad
comes in all cuts down his arm, self harmer... oh no... blood shot
eyes, looked like he was on God knows what, come in, came up to me and
went, ‘have you got any- any money? Spare pound or something for a
drink? I’m shaking, I been out all night, soaking wet through, I need
a drink’, I was like, ‘no’... mm... I went, ‘no’, and th- then they
went over to and his Dad an- and asked them, they were like, ‘no’,
then he went, ‘right, just gonna go toilet to get a drink of water’
and apparently-... ew, from the toilet,... -... you can get free water
from the bar... went into the toilet, and all the basins were dry, so
I bet he was trying to like get money out of the machine thing, you
know, like cos they have them machines in the toilets, trying to see
if there was money in them... oh, there’s always this- I think-... I
think he’s like homeless and he wears like, joggers and then a coat,
and that’s it,... ah... and it’s like ‘mmm’, it’s a bit digusting...
and he’ll sit with a pint, the whole night, the same pint the whole
night... it’s like, I don’t even know how it lasts that long...
yeah... it wouldn’t with me anyway... I drink like a fish... okay