three... one, two, three... yep, go... one, two, three... perfect,
when you’re ready... erm, I already know the answer to this question,
but how many brothers and sisters have you got... erm, two sisters,
one brother... two sisters?... yeah, well, Mum got with a new step-dad
didn’t she, and after about a month or so she was pregnant so...
ooh... but , she’s four... four now, bloody hell, that’s been a long
time... think she’s four... since erm, when we was in Scouts wasn’t
it?... yeah it was, when was that? About eight years ago?... God, I
can’t even remember, was it longer than that? was back in two thousand
four?... Jeez... at the latest... was you in Salford Scouts or was it
just explorers? Was in Salford Scouts as well?... yeah, yeah, well
hundredth Salford wasn’t it... hundredth, ah, you were the enemy...
yeah... fifty nine... was you? so what’ve you got, you’ve got... , ,
and **inc**... how old’s- how old’s now?... he’s four years younger
than me, so he’s... he’s not?... seventeen... Jesus... or something...
I remember him when he was about, like... oh no, is it nineteen,
might- it’s nineteen, sorry... it’s nineteen... yeah... I remember him
when he was God, how old was he, about eleven or something like
that... don’t even see him anymore, he’s w- he’s like a bit emo, he’s
got... is he? Is he?... big hole in his ear, his hair’s a mess... he
looks like a skunk actually cos he’s dyed the ends blonde at some
point... what, off power rangers... power rangers? oh dear... erm
actually, I think I seen your Granddad actually when I was doing erm,
when I was on the cavity wall insulation... yeah, I think you said you
went to try and **inc** sell it off and... yeah, I like I knocked on
his hou- I knocked on- I knocked his house and erm I sa- I saw him go
in the house so I went, ‘oh, there’s Lewis’ Grandad’... yeah... went
to knock on the house... no answer he just-... probably saw you down
the street, ‘oh, he’s trying to sell me summet’... yeah, just- just
ignoring me... ahh don’t know how many brothers and sisters you got, I
think, no-... I’ve got one brother, one sister... I didn’t know you
had- oh yeah, I did I knew you had a brother, he’s a younger brother
isn’t he?... yeah... your sister older than you?... no,... oh,
right... me sister’s erm, sister’s seventeen... seventeen... erm, -
he’s nearly twenty one now... wow... yeah, he’s going aw- he’s going
on holiday for his birthday and erm in October... oh, where’s he
going?... he’s going to erm, is it Cos... Cos, yeah... yeah, but he
failed to invite me so... that was a bit cheeky wasn’t it?... what,
he’s just invited his mates?... yeah, just going with all his mates
cos he’s- he’s good mates with erm, you know everyone that we work
with at... oh yeah... erm, so he’s going with a lot of them, all of
his mates from- from erm from when he was a, you know, doing his
bricklaying... yeah... and stuff like that, so... is he still doing
that?... no, he’s just doing- he’s working at with us, isn’t he... oh
right, okay... erm, doing a bit of- he works more in the kitchen and
does a bit of driving work as well, you know like a little bit of a...
yeah... like assistant chef yeah... that’s cool... so he’s not doing
bad, but he said he wants to get back into the erm, to the building
but erm, the last- the last guy that he worked for was an absolute
arsehole... yeah... and erm, so he’s just put him off, you know, like
the guy lived in, up Bolton way... yeah... and he used to have to be
at this guys house for about erm, used to have to be there for half
six in the morning... Jee- yeah, I remember you saying that... and
this was before- this was before he could drive... he had to get the
train or something... so he had to like, get the bus at like half five
in the morning, and you know, if he was late, the guy wouldn’t wait
for him so... that’s horrible... I think he just kind of thought ‘sack
that, I’m not- I don’t wanna be working in the bricklaying anymore’
sorta thing, but, but I’ve been trying to tell him, you know, he needs
to get back into it cos he can’t... yeah... stay at ‘til forever and
ever more, the longer you’re out of the game,... yeah, you’ll **inc**
it won’t you... the harder it’ll be to get back into it... well he’s
had his like, first job, so that’s the hardest bit isn’t it, cos...
yeah, definitely... when- then you can get references... yeah...
whereas our useless... yeah... he hasn’t had a job yet he’s- well, he
said he’s applied he d- he dropped out of college... what college was
he at?... he w- he w- he was at and then he dropped out of that and I
think he applied for... mm... and I don’t think he went for the first
day... and then just, didn’t go... what was he doing at- at ?... erm,
he was doing Computing, he was doing, is it Cisco, is that what you
were doing?... Cisco, yeah... yeah, I think he was doing that, but he
said the- the teachers are wankers and... nah, yeah, it was basically-
all it was, was erm, online modules sorta- sorta thing... right... so
we just used to sit there in front of a computer for an hour just
reading through these, you know, all these modules... yeah, and then
just doing the test... and then, like, yeah, and then at the end of
each module you have to have a test and there was no sort of like
teaching involved in it, there was like, it was just, you know, you
just sit there and read it, I think the only thing we did erm, you
know, practical stuff, cos it was all to do with networking and
computers and stuff like that, we learnt how to, you know like y- when
you get your Ethernet cables?... yeah... we learnt how to make them...
oh right, that’s alright... and we learnt to strip a computer down,
and then put it back together, they were the only things we did for
the whole two years... wow... so, there’s no wonder I did- I didn’t
erm, I didn’t pass it, cos when, you like, you’d complete all your
modules and then at the end of it you have to take a... you know, like
a test covering all the modules... yeah... so, and then if you fail
that test you have to pay for it to do it again... oh my God... oh...
so I failed it and I thought, ‘no’... ‘I’m not even bothering’... ‘I’m
not- I’m not even going back’ but you have- it’s like something like
sixty pound a go... jeez... and you know, back when I was working on
four pound an hour in- in Trafford Centre... sixty pound was quite a
bit of money... how did you do in your Electronics?... erm,
Electronics in the end, I come out with erm, a D... that’s good... so,
better than nothing isn’t it... yeah... erm, Music Technology, I only-
I scrapped that after the first year didn’t I... yeah, cos you pick
four four equivalent A-levels don’t you, and then drop one or
something... well no, basically I dropped it because it was,...
**inc**... just- I just didn’t like the tutors at all, like you know
at- when I was in school I was into all me drums and stuff... yeah...
and I like loved music, but then as soon as I got to college just, I
don’t know what- I don’t know what, but it’s just changed my, like
erm, opinion of erm, you know, trying to be a a musician sort of
thing... oh, that’s a shame... so yeah... I don’t regret it really
though I was just too lazy to practice enough... yeah... who’s your
favourite high- high school teacher then?... favourite high school
teacher?... don’t think I had one... I don’t- I don’t- I don’t think I
had- I don’t think many people- probably to be honest you know with
Music... oh, yeah... he was-... I- I rarely had him though, I had,
what’s the other one called, I think she was called or something
but... I don’t remember her... she- I think she was only there for
like a year... yeah, I know but cos- cos he was a drummer as well, you
know, he like really encouraged me and and erm, you know, he used to
help me out wherever he could... that’s cool... yeah I still see him
about cos he works for Salford Council now... right... you know for
Ma- for Mapas, Music and Performing Arts of Salford or something like
that, erm, so I- I see him about, you know when I’m dropping stuff off
at different places... yeah... so I still speak to him now and again
he was erm, decent do you- what was the worst thing you ever got into
trouble for at school?... it probably wasn’t the worst thing but he
really annoyed me, he was erm in RE he was our RE teacher, I can’t
remember if it was a woman she was-... no idea... she was horrible,
but... it was one of them subjects that you just don’t pay attention
to... yeah, she complained at me for me handwriting at some- at one
week or something, and then the next week she gave me detention cos me
handwriting was still bad and I’m like... ‘what’... ahh, the worst- I
got in trouble for a couple of things, when we was in erm, year seven
erm, I thought I’d be a bit with erm, itching powder... oh, yeah...
thought I’d be a little bit of erm, mischievous erm and then me and ,
me and and used to all mess about in erm, in Science class, this was
year ten, year ten or eleven... yeah... we always used to mess about
in Science and erm, basically you know along the Science benches...
yeah... used to get like the wooden bits along the front, and snapped
one off... so of course, you heard this like big cracking sound...
teacher looks across to us all and we’re all there, like rolling our
eyes... and the next- so he turns back, carries on with what- what
he’s doing and the next thing you know, I’ve got this piece of wood in
me hand and just head-butts it... like, snaps it in half, and then the
teacher looks round again, and I’m sat there with like two pi- two
pieces of wood in my hand... and erm, we both got te- detention for
that and erm, you remember ?... yeah... Science teacher... yeah,
oh,... we- yeah, we- we were in erm, doing detention and he- and he
comes in and he goes, ‘surprised to see you here lads, wh- what you in
here for?’ and, you know what like, he just like burst out laughing,
and I’m just sat there dead straight faced and he just went, ‘smashed
a piece of wood over his head’... like that it’s what it is- but that
was one of worst things I ever got in de- in trouble for I reckon so
are your Mum and Dad from Salford? From Manchester area?... erm my Mum
grew up where my Gran and Granddad are now... are they in still, in...
in, yeah, erm, my Dad grew up in... right, still Manchester area...
yeah, but , stepdad, I think his Mum’s part Prussian- Persian-
Prussian-... Prussian... is it East German or summet?... yeah... or,
on the edge of something and then he lives- he lived in Wales, and in
Liverpool... and then he moved over here so he’s got the weirdest
accent... it’s like, he doesn’t- he went to the chippy and I was like,
‘ah, get us a chip barm’, he went, ‘what’s a chip barm?’, ‘like, you
know, barm, with chips in it’... he was like, ‘don’t have a clue what
you’re on about’... I showed it him, and he went, ‘oh, that’s a chip
batch’... a chip batch?... like, what’s a batch?... ah, people from
other places, they call it weird things don’t they... they do... it’s
like, you know like I’ve got family that live in, in erm, in
Southend... yeah... they- they erm, they’re baffled by, literally, you
know like Peter Kay says it on- on his thingy, but they are baffled by
like chips and gravy... they just don’t have it like, my- my Aunty
who’s from up here, erm,... she has it all the time but like, the kids
they don’t eat it, I love chips and gravy... yeah, it’s the best
meal... and every time you go down and you’re like, you know, if you
go to the chippy, ‘can I have chips and gravy’ they’ll just give you
like, a portion of chips and a portion of gravy, they won’t give it
you together, if- if you want to eat it now... mm, yeah... really?
That’s well weird, ah where’s your favourite chippy?... In Salford?...
chippy erm... I can only think of two there’s or... definitely,...
yeah... the salt and pepper chips they’re nice... they’re nice...
erm... there’s one-... but the one on, you know on the , what’s it
called now, it’s a Chinese chippy on erm, you know on the ?... yeah
used to go there school... yeah, the one right at the end... yeah...
yeah, I can’t remember what it’s called now, not been there for a
while but that’s nice as well what was your erm, what was your first
job after leaving school?... I worked in Costa Coffee... oh you did,
didn’t you?... yeah... working with and that... nah, it wasn’t with
-... you worked in Trafford Centre didn’t you?... yeah, I was at the
Trafford Centre one... God, I forgot about that... cos that, well,
it’s like, went up to the manager and it’s like, ‘oh, I was thinking
like, I want a job, erm, can I have an interview or something’ he’s
like... ‘oh yeah, just come down’, cos like I didn’t have to give my
CV in or anything... yeah... I went down, and he- he- he just went,
‘do you know what, I like you’... he’s like, ‘you can have a job’
turned out he was a raving nutter, but... really... he, yeah, he
didn’t hire anybody else on and then he had a like a mental breakdown
or something, so there’s like, only six of us who work there, like I
think the hours were something like eight ‘til ten everyday, and then
he left, and it was just like us fending for ourselves... it was
horrendous... that in the Trafford Centre, yeah?... yeah... bloody
hell, I remember my- my first job working in- in Trafford, I went to
you know when the job- when the job centre used to behin- be behind
the big screen... yeah... do you remember when it used to be there?...
yeah... I went in there, you know, like looking for jobs and- and the
guy that- that was erm running it, sort of thing he said, ‘yeah,
they’ve got this one in BHS here’ erm, you know, ‘fill out this
application form’, so I filled it out... and he said that there’s
supposed to be a questionnaire to go with it... yeah... you know that,
you know, to see what your opinions are on stuff, he said, ‘we’ve not
got an- any in at the moment but erm, when it comes in I’ll fill it
out for you and hand it in’... ace... and then, so I- I- I ended up
erm getting- going- going for the interview erm, getting the job...
**inc**... I don’t- I don’t remem- I don’t remember if I’ve told you
this but you know when you go for your induction sort of thing...
yeah... erm, there was- there was about eight or ten of us sat round
this big table, and it was near- near the Christmas erm, period when I
first started... yeah... so they had some of the things that they used
to sell on Christmas shop... ahh... and erm, no word of a lie, they
had a vibrator on the table... why?... so we were all sat there going
‘what kind of, erm, company have we come to work for here?’... was it
a Christmassy one?... yeah, the- I don’t- I can’t- I honestly can’t
remember... but- and when like, the Christmas shop came in they used
to sell like, you know, like adult stuff like that, like flavoured...
yeah... condoms and everything like that, which was kind of weird,
when you’re only... sixteen and you’re like... I don’t think I applied
to work in Ann Summers... erm... what was your favourite subject,
like, of all time, apart from Music... apart from Music? God I loved
History when I was at school... oh, we had- what’s he called, that
teacher, the ginger one?... oh, he was quality... yeah, he was- he was
a good History tea- and we had erm, what was the other one called as
well? The one that really pale with black hair, the woman... ahh, no-
no I’m thinking of a man I think he was the Geography one...
**inc**... or something, no- he was Science wasn’t he... , yeah,
and... yeah... I don’t know who she was... what was she called, , was
that the one? And she got married didn’t she?... I remember the name,
but I don’t think I ever had her... yeah, yeah, she wasn’t bad either
but yeah I used to love erm, History and History and Music was about
it really, everything else I just used to loathe... yeah... what about
you?... oh, I like, I liked the Sciencey ones but I didn’t like the
teachers... yeah, Science was okay but... and I didn’t like Maths
either, was like, really geeky in it... no... but... I didn’t like
Maths, we had erm, is it... oh, she was horrendous... she was... we
had at first, and she just used to shout at me for just being in me
bag all the time... it’s just, like- it wasn’t in it, I just had it
open, I was asleep on the desk with me head in it... but yeah, and
erm, cos me and used to sit next to each other... I can imagine... so
and it was, you know, right near the back of the class so we were
always up to no good... and yeah, just, so she just used to- she never
used to like us I don’t think so that didn’t make it any better but
yeah, Science, I reckon cos it was a pretty run down school by the- by
the time we was there... it was shocking, wasn’t it?... so they never
used to have any Science equipment L; they had Bunsen burners, that
was it,... Bunsen bur- Bunsen burners... but we were banned from them,
cos we always used to set things on fire... and the clay mats that
were all like superglued back together... cause people had been
smashing them... so yeah what else, what else, what else, what else,
can you remember any good stories that your grandparents or your
parents used to tell you?... no, they’re all crap... they just tell
you rubbish, don’t they, like if I start talking to my Gran she’ll-
she just won’t shut up... yeah... she’ll just carry on, she’ll get
slightly on a tangent, and then she’ll move straight onto it, and
then-... I think a lot of Gran’s are like that aren’t they... go in a
circle well... cause my- my Gran, cos she lives down in Southend with
my Aunty and erm, so she- all the time she’s on the phone to me Mum
and me Mum’s sat there like that you know, trying to get off the phone
cos she’s just going on, and on, and on... it’s really hard as well
isn’t it, cos they don’t give you a break... I know you c- you can’t
tell them- you can’t tell them to you know, you don’t know what to...
‘hanging up now, bye’... yeah, ‘I’ve got to go now’, ‘just a minute,
just a minute’... ‘just let me tell you this’... ‘me kitchen’s on
fire, can I go?’, ‘no’... yeah she phoned up the other night, you know
when all these riots were on, on the precinct... yeah... she phoned up
to see if me Dad was working but erm, he wasn’t thankfully, he
answered the phone going, ‘hold on a minute, hold on a minute, erm,
I’m just beating these muggers off from the door’... she’s dead- she’s
dead-... he’s a firefighter your Dad isn’t he?... yeah, fireman, yeah
I always remember random stories he used to tell me when- when I was a
kid but the one that sticks out most is just like when, he’s got a
picture of it actually, w- him and one of his, erm, the lads that he
first started working with, erm like, this building’s on fire and
there’s just got a picture of them ru- both running away from this bi-
w- brick wall that’s collapsing behind them... woah... that was
pretty- pretty cool erm, picture and story to go with it... my Mum’s
just a bit of a looser, eh, you know her don’t you?... yeah... erm...
do you see her that often with your job now cos, before when you were
first doing in you her saw quite a lot when she worked on didn’t you
cos you did some of the-... y- yeah, erm,... I’ve not seen her for a
while actually, erm, you know, cos with all the council cuts...
yeah... well, everything’s been scaled back, I mean, when I first
started doing the driving erm, you know, we used to be really busy
everyday, you know, like with like ten or twelve jobs to do everyday,
but now, we’re down to about two or three... **inc**... you know, on a
good day you’ll be like, you’ll have like one big job for like eighty
people and that’s considered a busy day now... woah... whereas like,
back when we first started you know, used to do like six jobs for
twenty people, so so it has- it has erm, you know, been scaled back a
lot with all the cuts so it’s kind of erm, no, I don’t see- I don’t
see- I’ve not seen her for a while I don’t think- she’s not been to-
up to for a while I don’t-... yeah, well, she used to work at but then
she moved to round the corner so I’m not sure they do the same sort of
thing... right what d- what- yeah, what like, what years does she
teach sort of thing... she’s early so it’s nursery mainly... but
sometimes she does a bit of reception... yeah, my Mum teaches erm,
like reception she just erm, their school’s just been closed down and
th- you know, they’ve got a new one... yep... erm, what’s it called,
‘’ or something like that... oh, yeah, that’s where goes... no... no,
not erm,... it’s- that’s what Seedy went to, wasn’t it... , right...
it’s called, erm, it’s down by the river believe it or not... erm, so
yeah, th- do you know the school where she worked erm,... yeah... it’s
like, hundred and fifteen years old or something like that... woah...
and it is like, falling apart... you know, you so it’s about time they
got a new one, I think they’re, you know, merging a couple of
schools... yeah... like they did-... they’re doing that everywhere
aren’t they?... yeah, like they did with ours when... I think it’s
horrendous... was it- was it that closed wasn’t it,... yeah... and
they merged-... some dodgy Broughton people living here... merged some
of ours and some with- with bad times, when they- all the scrotes
come... yeah... erm... did you ever- ever get hurt when you was
playing as a kid?... ever get hurt? No, I- I’ve never broke a bone in
my body... really? Wow... yeah erm, the worst thing that’s ever
happened, and it sounds really naff, is erm, just pushing my, you
know, like a push bike... yeah... along, and erm, for some reason
this- this lad that used to live round the corner, erm, he come up and
he was just- just messing about like, just like kicked the back tyre,
sort of thing, and you know the- the cogs where your chain goes...
yeah... like, dug right into my leg so, got a big- big scar on my leg
where that was from... ahh... I had to go hospital and have stitches
for that, that was about the worst thing that ever- ever happened to
me... ahh we had erm, the old Scouts, some of them were like messing
around in our house... y- yeah... cos like, legged it to the back door
to like try and lock them out, just messing about, and I ran past the
ironing board and kicked the leg of it... ooh... and broke me toe...
ooh oh... that was probably the worst I did, erm, I fell out a tree at
one point and cracked me elbow like, cracked the bone in it... yeah...
ah, but, I wasn’t that bad cos-... no, I don’t think-... you don’t
really use it much... I think I’ve had a couple of burns and stuff
when I was a kid but nothing nothing worth speaking about really, just
the... scar on my leg from an idiot down the street... erm,
whereabouts did you used to play when you- when you were a kid?...
erm, well we used to live in -... did you?... yeah, erm, so there was
erm, just some like- where all the houses go round, there was like a
little patch in the middle which was just like, gravel... yeah... used
to play in there a lot but it’s just- it was just full of crap, like,
what- bits of broken wood with nails in it, used to go back with...
oh... bit of wood with a nail in your foot... yeah... so... my
brother’s done that Mum was like, ‘oh, gotta take you to hospital for
a tetanus’ and all this... get over it Mum,... just wipe it up with an
alcohol free wipe... but we used to have erm, where I used to live on
erm, do you remember the Church on the- on the- on the high-... no...
it was like a really old old church, like, pretty big church...
yeah... and we used to play on the grounds there but then they knocked
it all down and built houses over it erm, with like a- just a smaller
church to the side and we used to just like, used to have like, you
know like the massive fences along, erm... yeah... so- but we dug like
a little hole so we could s- like slide under the- under the fence...
and we built a little tree house in the- in the corner... ahh, that’s
well cool... and erm, we used to get the vicar coming out, you know,
like, shouting at us, going, ‘get off’ and, you know, private land...
and obviously, playing in- never went down to Buille Hill Park really,
but like, Oaks Park... yeah, Lightoaks is a lot nicer isn’t it?...
y-... it’s got its little pond in it... yeah, but erm, I remem- I
remember learning to ride my bike in- in Buille Hill park though...
oh, I remember that, yeah, my Granddad used to go- round the park with
us, and you used to have your stabilisers on... yeah... tried it with
stabilisers and now I couldn’t do it,... but, like, I was like, ‘I
really want to ride it without the stabilisers’ but every time he
tried I just fell off, and then one day, one of the stabilisers fell
off... yeah... like, on its own accord, I was like, ‘fine’, so, he
took the other one off I thought it was pretty good... really? I
remember when my Dad who’s like, you know, like running along behind,
holding the seat so I wouldn’t wobble, and then... yeah... I just
remember going, ‘w- why am I wobbling so much g- get hold of the
seat’, and tu- turned around an me Dad was like... miles away... a-
miles away, I’d been riding the bike and I didn’t- you know, didn’t
even know that’s the first time I remember... if you could talk to
your young self now you could say, ‘centrifugal inertia, and you can
pedal faster and you’ll be alright’... yeah ahh, they talk about that
word all the time don’t they... it’s true though like when- like on me
bike when I’m going round corners, you know, or j- or like you’re
trying to do a u- turn, the faster y- you, obviously not like twenty
mile an hour but,... yeah... the faster you’re going, then it- the
easier it is to manoeuvre it... did you ever do any extra extra
activities at erm, in school or college when we used to have to do
erm,... ah... what was it called now?... I did circus skills with...
circus skills with-... I did a bit of that... what did I do? I think I
used to do something with music, you know erm, learning to play
another instrument, I started to learn how to play guitar but you
know, drums was the way forward for me, thought, ‘chords, what are
these?’... didn’t have a clue... I did do boules at erm, High
School... oh yeah, I remember - was it... yeah, he was a right
weirdo... he u- he used to teach that didn’t he... yeah, was pretty
good actually, enjoyed that... yeah... I was rubbish at it... I don’t
think I ever used to do anything in- in a High School... there wasn’t
really much to do was there... no, I used to play a lit- little bit of
rugby but I never stuck at it really... no... you know, cos my Dad
used to play, my Dad used to play for erm, Salford Reds Juniors...
really?... and he erm, did like tours in France and Germany and all
that when they were- when he was like, when he was like nineteen,
twenty erm, he did like you know, like tours in France and stuff, and
I remember him always telling me about the coach got erm, you know,
got taken ill... yeah... and erm, him and one of his mates decided to
stay in France with him... you know, while he got better... quality...
so they just had a hol- they just had like a... piss up... think it
was like a three or four week holiday just messing about, something
like that... that’s well good what do you think of the local people in
your hometown?... what, in Salford?... yeah... well, after erm, was it
Tuesdays... erm, incidents, not a lot really... it was just a small
minority of it, spoiling it for people wasn’t it?... it was... was
anything bad near you?... I live- I live fairly near to the Salford
precinct where it was-... really... all taking place, you could see,
there was a couple of cars on f- that they’d burnt out, think it was
like the Manchester Radio car... yeah... erm, then they’d, you know
like, tipped it over and burnt it out, you could see the smoke for
miles erm, and my girlfriend, she’s like, nosey... so we- so we had to
go for a drive round didn’t we... so we went for a li- for a little
drive round and you know, like all the roads to the precinct there’s
just like, lines of li- riot police... gosh... erm, and they all
looked knackered... they’d been stood there for ages... yeah... you
know, without a break, felt sorry for them, one of my Mum’s friends
erm, he works erm, you know, training and co-ordinating the riot
police... yeah... so he was- he was like up for like forty-eight hours
straight or something daft like that... jeez... it was erm- it was all
madness wasn’t it though, but I think there’s erm, like I say, just a
lot of people spoiling it for the majority, a lot of people in Salford
are decent people... yeah... erm, just erm, what was it- cos I was
watching erm is it Question Time with young voters last night and erm,
it was saying that, you know, there’s a lot of erm... you know, it’s
not just people you know, being idiots, there is a lot of underlying
problems that they think is the cause... yeah... there are broken
families and all this erm, did you hear what H- Hazel Blears said? In
h-... ahh, I was listening on the radio, I wanted to turn it off she
just- so irritating... in erm, was it in the houses of parliament
where she said erm, you know, ‘why aren’t- why aren’t your kids in
school’ and it’s like, it’s the summer holidays... ahh, but erm,
watching- watching the news as well with- I’m sure the- the news
people just go around and find the most stupid people to talk to... I
know, they do... the stupidest people to talk to and, you know, give
interviews to and, you know, you can see why half of them haven’t got
jobs... yeah... the way- the way they talk and act... there was one
that I was listening to and he- he’s like this black guy and he- he
was like, ‘so, why are you rioting’, and he went, ‘oh, it’s just the
police, I hate the police, cos they- they hate us, they can’t stand
the colour of our skin, we’re like, black and Asian and they don’t
even care about their own colour skin’,... it’s like, they’re not
being racist then are they, they’re just, indiscriminant... like you,
plad... they’re just- they’re just stupid aren’t they see that guy
that was in Manchester city centre with his erm, with his t-shirt
pulled up over his face and his- and his sunglasses on, and he was
like, ‘the police can’t touch us today can they it’s free reign’
thought, ‘oh’ I was just watching it and I was thinking ‘why?’...
what’s the point... what are they- what do they think they’re gonna
achieve, you know, if they wanted to vent their anger I’m sure they
would find better ways than erm, smashing up their own communities did
you hear erm, TJ Hughes on the precinct, the- they’ve closed it down
now... have they, oh... because erm, you know cos it got that badly
damaged in the riots... yeah... erm, they just decided that they can’t
afford to erm, you know, repair it all, so they’ve just closed it
down, so they’re just ruining prospects for people in their own
community really aren’t they?... yeah... you know, that’s about, how
many people do you reckon are working there, fifteen, twenty people,
that’ve just lost their jobs... they now are jobless, yeah... so
they’re just adding to their own problems and- they just don’t think
about it do they... it’s erm, it’s all stupid I d- I don’t see why
they were rioting anyway, I think they were just... just any excuse
for them... copy- copy cat riots from, you know, cos I think in London
it was all to do with that guy getting shot wasn’t it... yeah... erm,
but up here, they j- they had no reason at all did they really,...
no... they were just copying it, getting away with it cos th- you
know, because they could get away with it so but erm, watching a few
erm, videos you know, that have been posted on youtube of people
getting arrested... and erm, what do you reckon- what do you reckon
about erm, you know, if people do get convicted then they should loose
their benefits... I reckon that’s quality, and loose their house,
everything... mm... that’s a good idea... at- see I- at first I- I
thought that, you know, yeah, cos they shouldn’t have been involved in
the riots and why should the tax payer have to, you know, pay for the
clean up... pay for all the damage, yeah... and pay for them who have
caused the mess... yeah... but then I was watching when I was watching
the- that programme last night and it was saying, you know, erm, is it
not just... gonna cos more problems cos these people that are already
on low incomes or no incomes have got, you know, nowhere to go, so are
they not just gonna start causing more trouble than all this...
yeah... so, there’s a bit of a argument for both sides of it really
isn’t there **inc**-... deport them... deport them, yeah L; yeah, send
them all somewhere else... mm... just make them live on a small
island... or Australia, like back in the day... execute them... did
you see that about the- was it that e-petitions where they’re trying
to get erm, you know, the death sentence brought back sort of thing...
yeah... aren’t they all mad aren’t they?... well, I think it’d be
quite good cos it’ll get like- jail’s like blocked up anyway...
yeah... if you get one’s that are stuck there for life anyway, what’s
the point in them being around... that’s very true very true erm I
don’t think it’ll deter anybody though cos, you can imagine, in
America they still have high crime rates, it doesn’t really deter
anybody does it... no, I suppose not... with- with criminals it’s erm,
when they’re committing acts of, whatever... erm, they don’t really
think about the consequences do they,... no... they don’t think, ‘oh,
I’m gonna get banged up for twenty years for smuggling ten pound- ten
million pounds worth of class A’ or whatever they just want to do it
because they’re greedy aren’t they, or-... yeah, but if they do get
rid of them then we’re not paying to house them in jails as well, so
it’ll make it cheaper for us... mmhmm... should bring back the cane in
schools, and let police beat everyone up it’ll be great... that’s
another one of the topics that was on that programme last night, he
was saying that, you know, how can you expect these, you know, these
kids, to respect the police when-... they can’t- the police can’t do
anything... they don’t even respect- they don’t even respect their own
Mums’ and Dads’... yeah... and you’re taking the powers away from the-
from the Mums’ and Dads’ to, you know, enforce that respect, because
you know, even smacking a child is frowned upon and... yeah... stuff
isn’t it, you were saying that-... can’t shout at anyone without
ending up in prison... yeah, yeah, too erm, too P-C, politically
correct, isn’t it, you know it’s all-... it’s human rights and all
that crap... bollocks in my opinion... yeah... never did me any
harm... no, it’s good... get- getting a smack round the back of the
legs... oh, I always thought back of the head was worse... no, no,
trust me, the back of the legs was worse you know, especially coming
from my Dad... I can imagine... he’s massive isn’t he?... yeah... that
was erm, fun times when I was a kid, well I d- I don’t get people
that, you know, it’s never aff- it’s never affected me in- in any way,
any- anybody that I know that got you know, a clip round the ear once
in a while... yeah... you know, it’s not affected them in you know,
like, adversely sort of- sort of way has it, you know... I suppose
they’re trying to protect people who are constantly abused but,...
yeah, but... if they’re gonna be constantly abused then they’re just
gonna be constantly- like, putting a rule in saying ‘you can’t hit
your kids’ isn’t gonna stop them... yeah, there should be- I think
they need to look at it don’t they change the rules... they do... so
have you- I don’t know what erm- what ways did you have to help
around-... help around the house when you used to live at home with
your Mam?... erm, I dunno, my Mum was more of a slob than us, so it
wasn’t too bad, but you know what my Mum’s like, she’s she only did
like, the pots and the tea every now and again,... yeah... it didn’t
really matter to be honest, we were more we all did our bit and
that... aha, yeah... you have to do anything?... used to- used to be
like a fight in our house every weekend, you know, like me Mum
dragging us out of bed at like ten o’clock on a Saturday morning when
you just wanna sleep... really... cos you’ve been up like playing on
your Xbox or whatever, ‘til like three in the morning... she’s
dragging us out of bed going, erm, trying to get us, you know, to tidy
up different things like, you can wash the pots from last night and
she used to make us like al- hoover all the- hoover all the- all the
stairs and landing and clean the bathroom and stuff like that... ah,
my Mum was pretty cool with all that, I think she did most of it...
yeah... think she just erm, made us clean our rooms, and any mess that
we left out she, like, we cleaned that up... yeah... but she did the
rest... she w- the funniest I look back on it now and I- I- I l- laugh
on it, but when- when we were kids, like cos me and my brother used to
have to share a room, erm, if that you know, became, messer, and me
Dad used to warn us, like two, or three times you know, saying, you
know, ‘tidy your room up’... yeah... and then if we didn’t do it, you
know, just go, ‘oh you know, we’ll just leave it, do it another time’,
erm, we’d come home from school one day and he would like have ripped
everything out of the wardrobes, all the toy boxes would be emptied...
you know, just everything in a big pile in the middle of the floor and
he’d just go... ‘sort it out’... ‘sort it out now’ y- you know,
‘you’re not going out until you’ve tidied your room’ so we used to
have to sit there for like you know, three hours, just... that’s quite
good that... tidying the room, and then it used to be spotless for
about two months, but then it used to get back to the same thing...
that’s why- but my room now you know, it’s always spotless so I think
that’s been drilled into me, you know... mine would be if wasn’t in it
all the time... oh, God... she’s so messy... every time comes ro- eve-
every time comes round to ours, you know, it just- it’ll be, you know,
there’ll be a few clothes you know, on the back of the chair or
whatever, but she’ll just like, throw her bag on the floor, her shoes
and everything and... ah, it annoys me you know, just spent half an
hour cleaning up and then you come round and erm, mess everything
up... yeah, I live at me own in at the moment, and it’s just bliss,
it’s just like, nobody makes a mess... yeah... and then, if I make a
mess I clean it up like pretty much straight away anyway so... that’d
be ace erm... I do miss like but she comes round and visits me, and
I’m round here more than anything, I think... yeah at least you’ve got
her your car, how’s your car doing?... yeah, it’s alright, you can-
like, it looks like there’s a really, really clean patch just on this
wheel arch where I managed to scrape it up the wall... and it’s just
got a different coloured paint on at the moment... oh it’s only like a
little scratch, but, yeah, it’s alright... mm... I’ve had a erm, just
had me car insurance... renewed... how much-... but I pay it in one...
how much?... it was well, the renewal price was one, six then erm, I
changed to Admiral for like an ultra low mileage... yeah... so, and
then it got it down to one, four, and then I put on it, and it went-
knocked it down to one three I was like... that’s weird isn’t it?...
that’s brill, but they’ve now got a tracker in it to check my
mileage... you’ve got to have a tracker on it?... I’ve got it on it,
yeah but it’s- all they do is just check how many miles you do in the
year, and if you go over then you gotta pay a premium cos I said I’ll
only do five thousand miles... yeah... which is why it went cheaper
but if my car ever gets stolen or anything I can like phone them up
and say, ‘can you just- my car’s been stolen can you-’... track it
sort of thing... yeah, turn the tracker on... that’s a- that’s a-
that’s alright isn’t it?... and then they give it all to the police,
and the police go and find it... that’s decent my bike’s got so many
cracks down the side of it where the previous owner dropped it on the
floor... ahh, have you not like, dropped it or anything yet,... nope
not dropped it at- I- I came off it in... I can’t see any cracks
actually... it’s on the- it’s on the other side I came off it in
erm... in Buille Hill park luckily,... yeah... you know on the
grass... yeah... so that was the only time I’ve fell off it so far
erm, and it was actually quite funny, I got up laughing to myself just
going, ‘oh my God’... but yeah, there’s like big cracks down the side
of it and you can see where, like it was been painted over sort of
thing, but it’s like, cos it’s like, it’s like shiny isn’t it...
yeah... but, on the other- on the other side, erm, it’s just like
matte, matte blue paint... ahh... and it just looks stupid erm, but I
can’t complain for what I paid for it and the mileage on it there’s
still- it’s not even got a thousand miles on the clock yet... has it
not... mm... wow... ah, it’s great for, you know, just going back and
forward to work you know, takes me like, well, not half the time, but
you know, depends what time, if I’ve gotta go you know, down to at you
know like five o’clock and it’s really busy, just zipping through...
mm, weaving... zipping through the traffic is pretty cool, but did I
tell you- did I tell you about that argument what I had with that van
driver?... I think you did... yeah, I was like just –... oh, you were
going past weren’t you?... yeah, I was ju- I was just like going past
the line of traffic and I stopped to let him- to let him come past on
the other side of the road, and erm, he starts shake- shaking his head
at me going, you know, like mouthing off in his van going, ‘ah, what
you doing this for, what you doing this for?’... so I was just like
you know, g- give him the fingers... and he pulled up at the side of
me there, and he was like proper screaming in my face going, ‘why
don’t you get to the back of the queue, all these other people have
gotta wait’ and I was like,... ‘I’m on a bike’... it’s part an- ‘part
and parcel of having a motorbike to be honest with you mate, you know,
I’m not gonna sit in a queue of traffic when I can just overtake
everbody am I’... no... oh, gotta think-... I really want a motorbike
now, what?... gotta think- gotta think sometimes erm, have you not
thought more about getting yours?... I have but it’s... are you gonna
wait a couple of years do you reckon?... yeah, probably until like, we
get our own place and that, cos... yeah cos I reckon- you probably
need a garage to store it in, to... yeah... to save it from getting
nicked... I could put it in the back garden at the moment, but...
mm... it’s cost as well... yeah... if I could get rid of my car then I
would, but I can’t for... no, well if you- if you, you know, cos I
know, the reason I got rid of my car was cos the insurance was just
was too high... yeah... you know, I think I was paying two thousand
pound, and it was only a little fiat punto... yeah... so I thought,
you know what, erm, this doesn’t justify it, you know, I only travel,
you know, n- not far to work do I, I walk to work most days, so I just
got rid of it and got that cos it’s cheap as chips to run, three
hundred and fifty pound a year on me insurance... that’s quality...
and erm... my tax is nearly that, road tax what was your road-... how
much- how much is your tax for a year?... oh, it’s about two hundred
and fifty five I think... bloody hell, do you know how much it is on
that... it’s probably about five or something-... fif- fifteen pounds
for the year... fifteen, ahh... don’t laugh, it’s not funny... ahh
yeah... no, it is well worth it, I would do it, but I need a car to
get **inc**... yeah, it can be- it can be a bit of a-... a pain in the
arse, you know when it’s raining or it’s a little bit cold, but...
yeah wait ‘til snow comes in winter-... well I’ve been- I’ve been
riding it since the middle of- since the middle of January, so... oh,
right... you know, I’ve been out- I’ve been out there in the cold and-
and everything like that, you know, with me long johns on...
underneath me thermals so, I erm, I can, I’ll be- plan to be riding it
until it starts snowing and getting icy, so, then it’ll go in the
garage until I can get it out again... yeah... oh, depends on the job
front, I might get a car but the insurance- insurance... a cheap one,
insure it for a month or something?... insure it- yeah, just insure it
for a month... get on... erm, I’m al- I’m already on... oh, that’s
good... but, you know, she uses it for work going back and forward to
Swinton every day told her to get a motorbike but she won’t have any
of it... I can imagine on a motorbike... ah... I told her, you know,
it won’t cost you anything... get her a sidecar for yours... yeah