Well Vivienne **anon**, we know where we went to school. No left
channel EOS We went to the same school. it was. Now did you ever get
into trouble at school? Can you EOS Ah. Well I remember getting into
trouble at that school and I got the EOS I was late, I’ve never been
late in my life, and I still hate being late for anything. And I
dawdled on the way to school and suddenly I realised that the doors
were locked and I couldn’t get in. And I had to stand waiting while
they did the prayers. Erm I was in the junior school, so possibly
about eleven. Ten or eleven. And I got the- this cane on my l- on my
hand EOS **anon** and it was- And do you know it really hurt, it- and
I was so mortified that I had to stand there in the hall and be caned.
Section omitted due to recording problem EOS Difficult years to be a
child in. Erm wondering from one day to the next whether the Germans
would arrive on the doorstep. We did at school, which we had to go
into. And practice for air-raids. I got thumped in one of those, I
remember, very, very hard in the EOS Somebody thumped me, we never
knew who it was. But er-. I did actually. It was a church school. It
was always a very good school. But as far as favourite teacher Left
channel resumes EOS Yes possibly, she came from Irlam. Mm, she did. I
don’t remember that name. right, right, I remember **anon**. Now she
was extremely strict. Very strict lady. She was a large lady and she
was very, very strict, everyone was frightened of her. As far as your
first day at school, that school- I actually, had been up in the lake
district cos I’d been evacuated erm to my aunt’s. And I do not
remember really my first day at school but I do remember at the
infants. And I do remember you and **anon** with your lovely dark
black EOS that was cut you know, with your fringes. I remember looking
and thinking, ‘ooh what lovely hair!’ EOS Oh, oh right. ooh, cos it
was a big operation. mm, mm, summer holidays for me were again, back
in the Lake District. Erm I used to go on . mm, no they didn’t no.
Well you couldn’t because there was no seaside to go to, because it
was mined, all the beaches. I do remember going to Blackpool once. And
it was all barbed wire and you weren’t allowed on the beach to play.
Erm I presume it was all mined and you know, waiting for an EOS So
beaches were just you know-. No go areas yes. Yes. No, it wasn’t very
good at times. Yes and I still hate celery. raw celery, I hate, but I
love it in stews. I do actually like it. Yes, in stews. Yes, no. But I
think- I think it was very difficult for our parents to feed- I mean,
there were th- three of us, ‘til **anon** was born. had my sister, in
nineteen forty four, so- it was hard to- everything was so rationed.
It was dreadful, you queued for everything. Sweet coupons, yes. Oh
yes, yes. Oh gosh, really? Oh gosh that American powdered egg. We w-
we were very lucky, we had erm- my grandfather wrote to a lady in
America who had been the fiancée of an uncle. Who died in the first
world war. And she went out and married someone else. And went out to
America and she sent us food parcels, all the way through the war. She
was very religious and the church that she went to, they collected for
the English people. And they used to send us some wonderful things
over. Erm and it must’ve been quite expensive to get it over in those
days, they wouldn’t be flown over. It would’ve come by boat. The only
thing I hated was the wintergreen sweets that they sent. Oh they were
dreadful, they were American, wintergreen, and the chocolate was bad
as well. And I- I never liked those. I don’t, no. yes, yes, yes. But
they used to send- also, they collected clothes. Clothes that were
practically new. And I absolutely hated them. Because my mother cut
them down, to fit me and they were American style sleeves. And I was
different at school in them. And I absolutely hated them. And they
were beautiful things, I’m sure. But they weren’t what I wanted. But
there were no clothes. Very difficult to get. mm, Well I- I remember
my mother making my eldest sister- half sister, erm, wedding cake.
That would be probably nineteen- **anon** was born in forty four, so
this would be forty five, I think. And my mum- my mother had got all
the cake mixture, black market cake mixture of course. Erm and she
made this wedding cake and she took it out of the oven and it fell
into three pieces. And she was absolutely horrified because she’d been
a cook, that was her- what she did as a young woman, and I think she
got the almond paste and stuck it together. Where the cracks were. And
iced over it and nobody knew any EOS So that- but that stuck in my
mind and yes, that’s amazing. Erm but I used to- I did a lot of the
queuing fo- for food. Yes because my mother had obviously had my
sister in nineteen forty EOS and I used to go and do all the-. Did you
do it as well Vivienne **anon**? Oh absolutely. When you watch these-
I love the history programmes EOS and I do watch them and you know,
what went on in the war years. And they’re absolutely perfect because
you know, they are true footage. Of what it was like and it makes you
think, ‘how did we ever EOS No, we had probably just about enough but
er-. Well we’re still here at seventy four and touch our toes,
Vivienne EOS mm, I can. Yes. Oh gosh yes. yeah, yeah, well we’ve got
our own teeth. Oh did you? Oh right, right. We’ve got our own hair
colour! The hairdresser’s very helpful EOS Erm you know and what else?
Well I’ve got contact lenses. I fool everyone cos I’ve got contact
lenses. Oh gosh yes, yeah EOS I’ve had them about- oh I don’t know,
twenty five years, probably EOS mm, since I- I’m more-. Erm, well my
grandson who’s eleven, well twelve tomorrow. He use- he has contact
lenses, **anon**. And what a difference it’s made to his life, and I
taught him how to EOS Yes, and erm I did explain it and I keep saying,
you know, ‘you must wash your hands, all the time!’ EOS You don’t want
to get infected eyes. And I spent a long time- . Explaining how to do
it, and do you know, he- he was brilliant. And he’s so thrilled
because he doesn’t have to wear glasses any EOS Yes, made a big
difference to him at school. They’re quite cruel aren’t they? Some of
them. Yes I’m sure mine were really, yes. We did Vivienne **anon** you
went to the grammar school. And I went to a technical col- commercial
college. And w- and- yes. I think they just had netball at **anon**
when I went there. You are better when you’re tall, yes. Yes oh yes.
mm, mm, yes. Taller, yes, yes. And as far as brothers and sisters of
course, I had- my father sadly lost his first wife with consumption as
they called it in those days. Er in nineteen twenty nine or stroke
thirty. Erm my sister was three. And my brother was a baby, about six
months old. And my father was working, because of all the problems
with like today, jobs that are difficult. And of course the twenties
and thir- well the twenties was very difficult. And he went to live in
Yorkshire. And-. Well I can’t just remember now, though I’m trying
very hard to. There was a very large erm- water supply, a big erm-.
Yes and it f- I think it fed Leeds I think, up there, but it’s
beautiful up there. And they had-. No, no it isn’t. Erm and I have
photographs of my father up a telegraph pole, cos he EOS Wiring it all
up. And they had houses as well, and that- my sister took me about
four or five years ago and the foundations of the houses which were
stone were still there. Just the foundations, you could see where they
were. Erm and the water authority, it hadn’t been open actually to the
public and they’d o- they’d o- they’d only just opened this particular
spot. Erm and so it was quite you know, interesting to go. And
obviously my father’s been dead twenty years now. Erm but-. Erm, well
my mother- father twen- mother twenty and my father twenty two I
think. And then what happened, she got this consumption living there.
Sadly and had to go to er a sanatorium. And he took his two children
back to Windermere where he came from. And his mother looked after
them. And that’s how he met my mother EOS there. Erm, so it was quite-
really quite sad. Yeah for him erm-. Mm, yeah they were. Yes. Another
little girl, one two three four. Oh yes. But then you see, what
happened with- with grandchildren. Six EOS And three granddaughters.
And five boys, one after the other. We didn’t have any girls at all.
Mm. But erm-. mm, really mm. Did she really Vivienne **anon**? Ooh you
can remember things better than me. Oh, yes, that’s- it is, probably
were, yes. But you never got much for Christmas, I certainly didn’t.
There were just no toys at all. in the forties EOS Oh I know. Yeah.
That’s right and a few nuts. You alw- I had a pillowcase, always had a
pillowcase and there was nuts in the bottom, a tangerine and an EOS
And erm they were- I don’t know that it was quite exciting to have
those at the very bottom. But I used to be so upset when there was
nothing left in it at all. And wishing there were more things, but
there were no books Vivienne EOS and I never had a doll for- I never
played with dolls. mm, well my mother-. exactly. Yes, yes. Well I do
remember a book that I was bought. Two books- one was ‘The prisoner of
Zenda’ and ‘Rupert of Hensor.’ EOS And they were hideous books, they
were far too old for me. And I c- I don’t really think I ever read
them really. but there were no children’s books. But **anon** from the
post office, her parents could always find Rupert books. Mm, she
always had the annuals for Rupert. And I was lucky, because she used
to lend them to me. You know, and so I could read them. But I never
had any books. And my mother, desperate to get me a doll she went to
the doll’s hospital in EOS And you remember that Vivienne **anon**.
Bought two heads and sewed them on this- these bodies she’d made. And
I had- I always had a black doll. I absolutely loved black dolls, more
than white dolls. Cos I just had this attraction f- for black dolls.
And she got me a black and a white one. And I went to see **anon** my
friend at the time. Yes, yeah. And **anon** dropped one of my dolls
EOS and the head smashed into pieces. And I was so horrified I lifted
my arms up and dropped mine. So I had EOS So both the heads had gone.
mm, yes, yes. Yeah, she w- she wasn’t- wasn’t particularly good at
sewing. But erm, she went to quite a bit of trouble to try and make up
for what wasn’t there. What we didn’t have, exactly. But my sister
arriving in forty four. Everything went to her. Er the- I- I could not
remember what a banana looked like. I hadn’t ever had one, you see,
that I could remember. Now I don’t know how many there were, whether
there was only one, but my father- it had to be **anon** that had the
banana. I remember looking at this and thinking, ‘I wonder what it
really does taste like?’ EOS And I didn’t find out, and I wonder why
they did that in those days. Could’ve given us half each, yes they
could actually. Erm so everything went to **anon**. Erm but it never
affected me in any way. I was never jealous. mm, mm, mm EOS mm, yes,
yeah. Oh right, yes EOS yes, catering, wasn’t it? Yes, a lot later.
But my grandparents lived in **anon**, as you know, and my grandmother
would give my half brother half a crow, which was quite a bit of EOS
And I was given sixpence. I never had what he had. Because he was the
son, you know, the grandson. And apparently my father used to get so
upset about it and so annoyed, he’d take me home and give me half a
crown. Yes. Just to make it up. Yes, yeah. They were like that with
sons. For some reason and we’ve got far more equality today. And you
don’t treat your children any different at whatever age. Yes. Yes,
quality, mm, yeah. yes I’m sure I did, I’m sure we had to really. Erm
washing up was always a pain, cos nobody wanted to dry. No, no, nobody
wanted to dry. So we used to argue, the three of us, cos **anon** was
too young. Erm and they used to- did they have no washing up liquid
Vivienne EOS It was Persil. We used to put washing powder in EOS and
wash the pots in washing powder. Oh they didn’t have it, no, no, and
my mother-. No- no they boiled everything, didn’t they, in a boiler,
but I do remember my mother grating fairy soap, white blocks- sorry
green blocks of fairy soap. And she would grate it into the dolly tub.
Er with boiling water so it melted, an- and became- so it would clean
the clothes properly. And they always washed on a Monday. Yes, yes. If
they got it dry. mm, was routine. And we had a cellar, where my mother
had clothes EOS And she used to hang her clothes EOS in the cellar to
dry. And we did have a very old coke burner down there for when the
sirens went and there was bombing. yeah and- and erm, my grandfather
had gone to the railways and he was a joiner, when he was younger and
lived in the Lake District. But he came down to live with us and erm
he went and got all these- erm, this- these pieces of wood from the
railway that- sleepers. And he propped the whole of the ceiling of the
cellar up in case we had an air-raid or a bomb- Oh where were your-
where are you parents from, well mine are from the Lake District. Both
living in Windemere. Er back-to-back and never knew each other.
Because my father was four years older than my mother. But they didn’t
find out until of course they met up, after his first wife EOS And my-
my mother was engaged to erm a- a man who went out to Canada and lost
all his money on the crash- Wall Street crash. And said, ‘well I’ve
got to start again, I’ll send for you,’ EOS and she said, ‘don’t
bother I’m not waiting.’ EOS And meanwhile her best friend who was my
father’s cousin, girl. Erm just asked her if she’d like to co- go out,
as a foursome because EOS my father had lost his wife EOS and she
wanted to cheer him up and that’s how I become- th- that’s how I ended
up sitting here talking today. If they’d never got together I wouldn’t
be here. Yes oh life is strange isn’t it? Mm EOS Oh did he? Oh so why
didn’t he? What was the reason? Yes. Yes, was he an only one? Mm, my
parents didn’t smoke. But my brother did, me half-brother did. And
**anon** my half sister. No, no I haven’t. mm, and actually my parents
were tee-total. Until my father got to eighty and then he used to have
his brandy in a morning, to keep his heart going he used to say. Well
yes, they did. Yes, yes, but erm EOS Oh but erm, Well it’s beer today,
apparently. Giving- yeah keeping your heart going. I think I’ll do
without, mm, mm EOS What are local people like? The people where I
live- well they’re all very nice really, it’s quite quiet, but it’s a-
it’s such a good area, I mean the house is up for sale, I can’t
imagine why nobody buys it. Because it’s such a super spot to be,
you’ve got the railway, you’ve got-. Everything’s at hand, you’ve got
sports centres, you’ve got swimming pools, golf courses. You can get
into Manchester so quickly, and you can get onto the M- sixty- sixty
two, sixty-one, fifty six, in ten minutes. Yes and the- the thing
about the Trafford centre is- it- I didn’t like it when it was first
built, I thought it would kill off all the sho- local shops, which it
did. But I do enjoy going and I go at least twice a week. And I don’t
particularly buy erm, but I c- if I want to, everything’s there. I’ll
just go because it’s very nice inside and you can have a nice coffee
and a cake on a morning. Yes. And er- and I do quite enjoy going and
it’s just so quick to get there and to park and-. It’s just no
problem, so that’s a great advantage to this area to me. I’ve never
been into Manchester for years and I don’t think I ever will really.
I’ve got- There’s nothing there for me. Oh right. Yes, yes EOS Mm,
very nice. Trafford centre, yes. Yeah. Yes probably. Yes we did. We
certainly did. mm, yes we used to go on to the pictures after we’d
been to church. Well, definitely! Yes those were the days. But I
think, I remember it being more difficult for food, clothes and
everything else after nineteen forty five. Because that’s when it was
really difficult, when they put bread on rationing. That was awful. It
went to about fifty two I think. But it went worse- I don’t think we
probably got the help from America that we’d had during the war. yeah
I think so, mm. Yes. The Americans, mm. Anything like- well, above-
above the counter. And on show, everything was under the counter.
Nothing was on show. No food was on show. Dead chicken, was it
plucked? Oh you didn’t! How did you carry it? Can I ask you, did you
eat any of it when you got home? And prepared it, oh EOS Really? Oh
that’s not right at all is it? It was, yes, he did. Any animosity
between you. mm, mm, my mother lived on a farm, erm, and my
grandfather was a EOS Which was- it- you know he- he rented and he
worked for the farmer and it was in Warrington, cos he came down all
the way from the Lake District, how they got down I’ve no idea. But
they always- no and they were on this farm called **anon**, which is
still there in- in Warrington, Daresbury actually. And my mother went
to school at Daresbury village. And erm she said that my father- my
grandfather always had- if they had an egg, they only got the top off
the egg, and gra- and her father got the whole egg. Cos he was the
working- he was working. and he was providing. And she said there was
ce- there were- there were lots of vegetables, and she said, ‘he never
took anything that wasn’t his’. And she said, ‘we could’ve lived
really well if he’d just- taken a few of these veggies and brought
them home.’ EOS But he never did. Never took anything that wasn’t
theirs they were so EOS Mm, then they went back of course, went back
to erm-. Yes went back to Ulverston, mm EOS Yes, yes I did actually,
I’d seen it before. Yes. My cousin that still lives there, erm her
grandson is erm- well his girlfriend, who lives on **anon**, which is
the island that nobody’s- yes, it’s a beautiful house EOS It’s the
**anon** that have got that. The people who had the insurance company,
**anon** insurance company. And they bought the island and they live
there. And this is their daughter. And she swam the English channel
about two weeks ago. For charity, yes. She’s a st- I think she’s a
student now, I- I th- - I’m not sure whether- she’s got two grandsons,
and I’m not sure whether this particular grandson is the one that’s
living locally in Manchester, come down from the Lake District erm cos
there are two of them and I do get them confused and they’re both at
university, or one has EOS But this girlfriend, yeah she swam the
English channel. Yes. Cos she- she let me know the other week about
it, yeah. Oh did she, I’ve no- I didn’t see that. The English Channel?
You’ve got the jellyfish problem with the English Channel. haven’t
you, really? Mm, Yes very beautiful if it’s not raining. mm, mm,
beautiful, mm EOS Mm, they’ve had very bad weather this last winter.
Yes a lot of- yes, yeah and rain. My cousin, when she was telling me
about these- this er grandson’s girlfriend. Erm she said, ‘oh you
wouldn’t believe how low they are.’ She said, ‘we’ve been out and
we’ve been looking and they’re extremely EOS He what, sorry? Did he? I
hope this is not being used in evidence against him EOS for a thousand
pounds. mm, well I mean, I use my hosepipe to fill my watering can and
my gra- my son-in-law said, ‘you can’t do that it’s illegal.’ I said,
‘rubbish. It can’t be illegal.’ But I’ll tell you one thing. This
hosepipe ban is so ridiculous cos you waste more money- sorry more EOS
In a watering can. Because you’re being- it’s pouring out and EOS and
if it was coming out as a spray EOS and a shower, it would go into the
flowers and everything quicker. But it’s just going over the tops and-
and going on the- one the road. On the pavements. Mm, I do. Yes, but
still. Well at home but what about these- can you still take them to
the-? Places to have them cleaned. Oh right, right. I didn’t realise
that. oh yes, yes, mmhmm, mm, no. Well my- I’ve got one hanging
basket, beautiful EOS because it’s rained on it and the other one is
slightly under the EOS at the front door and it’s dead. And **anon**
never bothered watering it. So I’ve had to get it down and just let
the tap run on it, so that’s wasted a lot of water. Today, whether it
will revive, I don’t think it will. Oh gosh you do because it doesn’t
get through. It only stays on the top. Hmm, how are we doing?