That’s the quickest one to five I’ve ever heard. What fun things are
there to do in your community? What would you say about that? What do
you like to do to have fun? You like to go for EOS cinema, it’s a
shame about the erm, **anon** cinema closing. Or is it? It was a bit
of an old flea pit, wasn’t it? I got a text today. I was- I got a text
today, from Orange. Inviting me to go out on EOS Mm I did. I didn’t
reply to it. But you’re going this Wednesday, aren’t you? Is it this
Wednesday or next Wednesday? Thought you were going with **anon**?
Thought you were going to the cinema with **anon**. Must have been a-
another woman I heard. Yeah I- I tended to play more with sort of
like, male friends. They weren’t- you didn’t really hang around with
girls until you got a little bit older. But er yeah and ours were like
ball games. We were erm- nothing hi- tech as today, obviously but er
do pretty much sport based games. yeah and then we used to go
swimming, things like that at the weekend. And- but majority like
sport based games, with l- not really involving anything erm that you
needed to buy, you tended to try and make it, or if your ball- ball
burst, you repaired it rather than just nipping out and buying another
one, cos we didn’t have the money, really just to replace something.
Y- you tended to make do with what EOS erm funny to who? To me or to
anybody else? Well, I- we used to go fishing and er throw people in-
in the water when you got a bit fed up and you couldn’t catch any
fish. mmm, no just naughty games really, wasn’t it? Like knocking on
doors was quite- and running away was quite common, or p- Well we
tended to be outside more than anything obviously, and the summers
always seemed better. Mind you saying that, we’re having a good one
this year. But we tended to be outside quite a lot. Which really got
you out of the- got you out of the like, from under your mum and dad’s
feet. And we used to erm go- not- well we used to go on our bikes, the
roads were quieter then obviously in those days, we used to go on our
bikes, down to the local river. Which was probably about six or seven
miles away. And go swimming, most days in the summer. Erm, camping, we
used to camp on like, on the local fields. Things like that quite a
lot. when- erm, when the weather obviously allowed. With tights on
with tights on your head. And you wonder why I fell for you . Most-
most people wonder why I fell for you. Oh yes used to fall out of
trees quite often, cos we did a lot of climbing based games and
chasing each other around. So we’re forever falling, cuts and scrapes.
Erm- football injuries, cricket injuries EOS Yeah but tree- falling
out of trees was quite a common injury. Also we used to fall off a lot
of words. It always seemed more fun to walk along the walls than it
did the EOS No floor above, yeah. Oh yeah, yeah we- we used to make er
bonfires round bonfire night obviously but we used to make dens in
those and they were quite big and dangerous cos erm the fire brigade
generally used to come and pull half the- the timber that you’d
collected off, they wouldn’t let you build it as big as it was. And
erm as soon as they left, we used to put it all back on again. And
then make dens inside them and things like that. And so it w- it was
quite dangerous times really, compared to what the kids seem to get up
to today. Mm to where I was yeah. Yeah that’s them like on-. It was
very rural, it still is, rural area. The estate’s rough yeah it’s-.
But that was in the early sixties. mm, it was- yeah, I think Myra
Hindley was early- early- earlier than that. But er yeah. Ah me mum
still- she kind of couldn’t wait for it to erm, explode, so she could
have a go of her whistle and watch the light come on as she hit the
water. That’s not a very religious thing, mm EOS But holidays were
always s- we always seemed to er- take holidays to North Wales,
usually erm, in the early days to er a bungalow, which was- I can
still remember the smell now, there were always damp musty smells. Me
mum always tried to convince me dad that they had to go in a caravan,
would be better because they were more modern. But he- he wouldn’t
have it cos he always said that they were like being in a tin can, if
it rained. And eventually she got him to go in one and he never went
in a bungalow again, cos he realised how good they were. But it was
always Wales, we didn’t have foreign holidays at all. It was always
North Wales. I spent most of my teenage erm, holidays on- on- on the
beach, pretty much on me own. Me- me dad didn’t like the beach. Me mum
used to come for a walk but I used to sort of like- we used to play
games erm but it was pretty much- I used to wander up and down the
beach and erm, throwing stones at this that and the other and er EOS
whiling the hours away that way. But er- didn’t really go in the- in
the water much. It was- it was too cold. But erm I remember them, erm,
th- they were good holidays. I always- I always really enjoyed them
and it was nice to spend time together. With er- we always used to buy
a kite on the way down. That’s something, erm, me dad and I always did
EOS was kept flying kites. Usually from the petrol station on- on the
way down but they were good. And what was your least favourite
teacher? I had a least favourite teacher. **anon** woodwork teacher,
horrible man. He was erm, a bully really. Er when you look back at it
he was- it was quite scandalous the things he used to do. Erm but- not
a good teacher. Favourite teacher, **anon** from **anon**, who was
really good teacher, went on to become headmistress at a local school
years later. You had some weird and wonderful teachers EOS base
education on- Mm, ours was-. Well ours were always physical, they
weren’t- erm, and obviously the cane and the slipper were allowed in
school when I was there. So if you did something quite menial, or
didn’t get your homework in on time or something like that, you were
hit with the slipper. Which is like usually a plimsoll or er a gym-
shoe. But some teachers gave them names, like erm- **anon** called his
‘Oscar.’ EOS And he’d like removed everything apart from the floppy
sole, and he used to send people for er- he’d hit you say six times
with that just in case you know, er, you’d- you hadn’t done something
right. But if you were really, really in trouble, then you had to go
and see **anon**, he was the head teacher, we used to call him
**anon**, cos of his surname. But he used to have canes of various
shapes and sizes. Like he would actually ask you to hold your hand out
and- well he would erm- give you six of the best, as he called it and
it was pretty brutal really. When you think back, I certainly wouldn’t
allow my kids to be- to be hit by a- a teacher. But that was the way
life was. Well I used to liked sports, used to like playing football
in a team, used to play football for the football team, obviously, for
the school football team. Erm badminton. Used to pl- like playing
that. Erm but I wasn’t- I used to join the bo- like the book clubs and
history club and things like that just so that you could get first in
the line at lunch. So you could get your dinner before everybody else
EOS and then pretty much not go to the club but at least you’d- you’d
got something from it . Well I always got a good part in the school
play. I was the pied piper of Hamblyn, although I couldn’t play a
recorder EOS and I had to pretend I was playing a recorder whilst all
these er rats were running behind me. And I played a tree, I played a
tree in one pl- oh no sorry it wasn’t a tree, I was a dormouse in one
play, which had to sit underneath a tree. And this tree was actually
**anon**. Because he was like the tallest guy in the class. So he- he
basically had to stand there for twenty minutes with his arms out.
While I was curled up asleep below. And me mum said I EOS told
everybody, but no, I mean I remember the school plays, I- i generally
got quite a decent part in that or a part with- at least just a speech
part or rather than er just standing there dressed as a donkey or
something. Do you remember moving from **anon**? Is this **anon**
yeah? mm, it’s like we moved erm, when I was s- seven and yeah that
was the same sort of thing- it was- it was a bigger house that we
moved to, erm with three bedrooms whereas the previous house only had
two. Erm but again the garden was a big thing ocs it was quite a large
garden. Erm I remember me dad working on it for months when we first
moved in. Although it was like awesome when we moved in. I remember
like the winter, erm and after the winter he was really out there all
the time and we used to help him get er soil. From the fields at the
back, and put it in wheelbarrows and used to give us like- can’t
remember how much it was now but it wasn’t a lot. And er we used to
fill the wheelbarrow and then bring it and tip it in the back garden.
Cos it was- it was a lot lower than- than he thought it should have
been so er we must’ve put tons in there over the years. But er- he was
keen gardener my dad. He liked his garden didn’t he? mm, also there’s
quite a lot- There’s quite a lot of kids in that area though wasn’t
there? The- Everybody seemed to have- you know, every house pretty
much had kids. There was a few like old dears whose maybe kids had
grown up and gone. But there was a lot of kids in the area at the
time. Yeah from different-. Yeah that’s quite true yeah. mm,
everybody’s of a similar erm- like pay-scale as well, weren’t EOS
Everybody was like working- you know working class. erm, Dads all
worked in Trafford Park at the time, or the majority didn’t they?
There was no- erm you know, the odd person had a car. Which I
remember, I must have been about ten or so like, when we- when- when
me dad got a car. Used to have a motorbike and he had a canal barge
EOS which he- him and his friend worked on. I suppose to get a little
bit more money, when I think back. I know he- he always fancied having
a canal barge that he could you know maybe go on holiday and weekends,
but he’s- he tended to spend you know, one day of the weekend erm
working on this boat that I never actually saw, although I know it was
called **anon**. I think I saw it once actually, but I never saw it
float. It was always in dry dock and er- but I suppose y- you get to
meet the other people with boats and what have you, we actually went
on a few boats, for day trips up and down the Bridgewater canal. And
it was- it was nice community, it was really- everybody- and some had
like made sandwiches and there was always big picnics and this that
and the other and other kids to play with, so that was good fun, it
was good times. Again the sun always seemed to be shining. From- from
**anon**? I didn’t really know a lot about **anon**, to be honest. Mm,
I think a lot of people were happy when they moved because, they did-
like I was saying before, they did get a garden, which they didn’t
have before. And there did seem to be a bit more space, and-. I would
imagine yeah, mm EOS Yeah, course it is, yeah EOS it’s probably one of
the biggest shopping centres in Europe isn’t it? It’s open late - Mm,
that’s right. No I mean when they built like the shopping centre at
Stretford, the Stretford Precinct, that’s totally different. People-
when it was first built it was so- people thought it was fantastic,
cos you didn’t get wet when you were shopping, if it was raining you
could still wander from shop to shop. Once you were inside there, you
were- you know, you were dry and erm- but it seemed to like rip the
heart out of the centre of Stretford. Because when it closed, it was
like a huge area that you couldn’t get into, so there was no- whereas
if there was- in the old community, there was pubs and- and- not so
much restaurants cos I don’t think they had like restaurants in those-
in our early days, did they, your Mum and Dad didn’t tend to go out
for a meal most weekends. Cos they didn’t have the money but er it
just seemed to be like a big void in the centre of the town that was
only used from nine ‘til six and then er and then closed. But I think
the Trafford centre’s different because it does involve cinemas and-
yeah. Things that you can do and it’s not just a shopping centre it’s-
it is a place that-you know, y- you can virtually spend all day there.
Yeah and most- most other Saturdays But yeah that- that has been a big
change and erm the renovation of the centre of Urmston, I think that’s
for the- for the good as well. Er- and I think they’ve learnt by
mistakes they’ve done in previous place- like Sale. When they did the
centre of Sale and- and they rejuvenated that, the parking’s just a
nightmare, whereas what they’ve done in Urmston I think’s really good.
I’ve not personally struggled to get in and out where- you know, or
find a parking space whereas I know people in Sale, you can drive
round for like three quarters of an hour looking for somewhere to
park. And er with it being free parking as well. Whereas some- some of
these places, like Altrincham, pretty much charge to park, don’t they?
Yeah just turn of the century yeah. well, yeah you can still see which
shop- yeah. mm, but also like I was saying before, you can’t close it
off, because it’s on the street and you know, where there’s coff-
coffee you know, erm, lounges and restaurants then- although they’re
not undercover, pe- I don’t think people are that interested any more
so it still is a town. Whereas I think all these places that they put
precincts, they kind EOS Yeah it’s the start of something that you
would hope, in years to come will get bigger and bigger and EOS more
and more people take part, so it- yeah I think it’s a good idea.
That’s an ex-servicemen’s club. It’s very popular, yeah. You’ve got
the new conservative club, yeah, yeah. Yeah it’s- I think it’s a shame
like the cinema couldn’t have sort of like made it through recession
and what have you, but I just think people- it needed so much money
spending on it, didn’t it? But it- it seems to be thriving as like a
dance-. Yeah there’s not very many left at all. Yeah some of them in
the past, you remember like **anon** in erm-. **anon**, that was in
**anon**. That was where I was first gonna take you to see James Dean
EOS and then- and then they pulled it, because they used to do erm say
like a James Dean series or- and they’d- they’d- they’d show his
films, or then they’d show such and such a thing and it was a bit more
erm- not just like run-of-the-mill blockbuster films and just next one
and the next one and the next one. They tended to do like series. They
did- they did a erm, church in Chorlton’s started doing it recently,
you know the big church near erm- the catholic church where- Is it
**anon**? Yeah, on the f- the one on the fork? Yeah the one on the
right hand side, that does- go past that and it’ll have like- seems
crazy sometimes, but you have like gangster series, and it’ll be
showing all the ‘Godfathers.’ EOS And it’s- it’s like a- it- it-
because it’s in- in the church it- it’s not run by the church but they
obviously use like the church EOS But there’s always big adverts
saying like ‘gang’- all Al Capone films and this that and the other,
all . On the corner h- the what’s it called? The c- the corner house.
Yeah where they- rather than just showing mainstream, run-of-the-mill
blockbusters, they er yeah try something different. But it keeps them
op- keeps them going and- and not everybody wants to see Bruce Willis
in his vest. Which I believe he’s brought out a new aftershave. What
we were saying, why would you want to smell like Bruce Willis looks?
do you know what I mean? In his sweaty vest, yeah. Would you ? How
many brothers and sisters do you have? How long have EOS I think you
had to EOS He used to rap your knuckles. that was the usual way, well
I- I have two sisters. One three years- three years er older and one
seven years younger so I think- I don’t think there was much planning
in erm- in our **anon** being born. Probably a mistake EOS but er yeah
I- I tended to let them do the girly things and I did the er- did the
lad’s things. So I’ve never been really that close to EOS why would I-
Spoiled? No not at all, far from it! I’d still have to get up and
light the fire on a Sunday, me sisters didn’t. But they used to do the
erm- help my mum I suppose more with the cooking and-. Erm, no not
really I used to er-. I wasn’t spoilt at all! I- I used to make my own
bed . But I didn’t change the sheets, I think that me mum did that.
Probably every three or four months, whether they needed changing or
not. But er no I didn’t do a lot of housework really, don’t think but
I use to help me dad in the garden. Or I’d be sent off to the shops
for you know, running errands. So it’s not like- I didn’t get away
with anything, just different things. Good God, that’s not-. No did
you have to do that every day? Bet you do it every other week then. No
I’ve never been in a police EOS Yeah my mum used to work, and erm, and
me dad used to work shifts. So if he was home first he pretty much
just sat there and waited for me mum to come home. But then years
later he changed, I don’t know- became a modern man. And actually half
got- my mum would half get the tea ready before she went and he- he’d
put the tea on knowing- cos she was always home at the same time cos
she only worked across the road. Erm knowing that she’d be home at
six, me dad would start tea at like twenty to six, or so and- and it
was virtually ready when me mum came EOS and then she would er serve
it up. Yeah I re- I remember the things you mean. But I don’t think-
we didn’t have them much. yeah food you didn’t have so much choice.
You used to get those people who used to buy er- pies in a tin. You
think- they used to just steam them didn’t they? We never had them cos
they were from-. some people would have them, and they were made by
goblin. Goblin EOS Oh yeah, that was-. Can you imagine my dad? Mm, We
used to buy them but my dad used to go mad cos obviously he’d- he’d
never had anything like that. And just the smell of that, he- yeah,
erm, He weren’t very popular, but there was a Chinese one as well.
There was like a noodle one. Chow mein that’s it. that’s it, yeah,
yeah EOS but I can remember pizzas as well. When **anon** was at
school she must’ve been about fourteen or so, she made this pizza. And
it was like pretty much the first time I’d ever had pizza, but it
wasn’t- wasn’t like a pizza, it was like you know, flour, just- it was
like erm- more like a-. Yeah, yeah but it was really, really thick
bread with like cheese and tomato on it, or tomato puree. Yeah it was
yeah, but with tomato puree, you know like **anon** makes now. And it
was erm- that was it but it just had like a little bit of erm, green
or yellow pepper which was really like unheard of at the time. And erm
me mum used to love it when **anon** made that, she used to- you know
especially when she used to make it at school and then bring it home.
And then heat it up again for tea, it was like, you felt like you were
really continental. You know, ‘we don’t need the chip pan tonight.’
EOS Cos pretty much everything I think involved chips I think as well.
mm, I know we- we used to have like boil- boiled potatoes. And things
like that and obviously like we used to- we’d have like Sunday roast
but we did- I think we had quite a lot of chips. Although, we were
quite skinny kids, I don’t know why- why we weren’t big fatties.
Perhaps we ran it all off. no, we didn’t have yoghurts. Didn’t ever- I
can’t ever remember having a yoghurt when I was a kid. I was probably
about sixteen, seventeen before I saw a yoghurt. I don’t think- yeah
definitely. Used to have quite a lot of carnation milk. And tinned
fruit. Everybody had- I think everyone had like tinned pears and-.
Mixed fruit, like oranges and apples all chopped up. I tell you what
we used to buy- did you have- ever have the er EOS We used to get
those in tins, they were great those, they were EOS No these were
great. They were full of Es and everything. there was every E in the
world was in those. No but you used to pretty much shop- you didn’t
like weekly shop did you in those days, it was- it was EOS Mm, but I
know we used to have er cereals as well. I remember when it all- all
these new cereals came out, like ricicles and rice crispies. And this-
you always tried- when a new one came out on tv you always wanted to
try it. Pretty much like you with anything new that comes on the tv
these days. within a week, we’ve got one!