one, two, three EOS cos you know the way she went EOS to- from the
petrol station EOS do you know who lives there? oh never mind now EOS
thanks it’s **anon** innit EOS that’s why I didn’t wanna EOS I think
she wanted to be nosey, to be honest EOS quick look, see what he’s
going on EOS they’re my shorts EOS do you know the ones that I wore
under my fancy dress stuff EOS they’re my shorts EOS like, the ones
that I just wear under any fancy dress stuff, like, whatever I need
yeah, so she wears that- that’s why she loves the free tops, that’s
why she wanted a free top from wherever EOS yeah that’d’ve been cool,
she’s obsessed, weirdo, I can’t believe you didn’t go the gym EOS I
thought you did actually wake you up EOS why would y- yeah, you do EOS
why did she want my Mum’s number? I told you, sister’s got shoes, she
would’ve found something to fit EOS and now she’s going on an empty
stomach EOS with a bit of lamb in her EOS it’s well fatty in the
morning though EOS she’ll be having lunch again EOS yeah, yeah, lunch,
it’s called Sunday lunch isn’t it EOS the lamb chops? The one that
mush- the onio- I only complained about the onions EOS no, it wasn’t
the mushrooms- I don’t even know what we had I can’t remember now EOS
oh aye, you just- yeah, yeah, yeah, that we spent all- most of the
afternoon making and then you just- mmm, rice pudding, mmm EOS bit of
that, bit of that we should EOS well how often does she wanna see her?
I think we should go round and see **anon** this week EOS mm well what
else is- I swear to God he most probably the boringest person this
week anyway you got an eyelash EOS sh- she won’t be, sh- she’ll just
be winding you up, I think if she’s that mad she would’ve text you EOS
I swear they see each other, they see each other twice at the EOS
standing isn’t it EOS is yeah man EOS so why’s **anon** coming round
anyway? something wrong with her? how does she cope? there was a
programme on TV about that, about sleeping beauty, and she sleeps like
three weeks and she missed all her GCSE re- exams and then she woke up
for her prom, and like there’s nothing you can do, there’s nothing you
can take, yeah it was on BBC iPlayer EOS you think everyone’s weird
EOS bit like Amy Winehouse EOS yeah, so anyway, carry on, why doesn’t
your Mum like her hair, I like it EOS I can’t believe you told her EOS
she’s only got in her fringe and EOS so has **anon** done it again?
what’s her natural colour? she’s not that old EOS it’s not that old
EOS no, she’s not as old as my Mum EOS yeah, but that’s not your
natural hair colour EOS what’s a mushroom haircut? oh, I know, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah EOS oh yeah, the pictures- yeah, I can’t
believe y-your Mum’s hair grows grey, you’re winding me up about that
EOS no, it doesn’t EOS no, she doesn’t, she’s not as old as my Mum EOS
f- forty eight EOS I think that’s how old my Mum- I dunno- dunno I
don’t do Maths EOS cause you’re the song from ‘Wet’ Nico- yeah, that’s
the one EOS it’s from that EOS so what- yeah, so EOS it’s gotta be
**anon** EOS no the one that we- yeah, the one we had from kitchen
last year EOS ahh, **anon** ace EOS he- he has got to be the worst
teacher EOS ah, do you know **anon** that came into our thingy when we
had EOS he came back to thingy and we swear he’s like got the sack cos
he’s always in work now EOS no he’s still like , but yeah EOS cause
he’s just knob EOS giving all them sheets in the last week of college,
swear to God didn’t need it EOS didn’t need it did we EOS no, because
technically he should’ve gave that sheet to us, evaluation sheet each
week we had him EOS well, I told you he was - excuse me, sorry EOS
ahh, the arse EOS **anon**, I wonder what she got, bet she got treble
distinction EOS mm should find her on- in facebook EOS but yeah, why
who’s yours? mmm, **anon** alright, **anon** was sound EOS yeah, but
she had problems at home Alan **anon**, don’t be tight EOS her best
mate was like dying of cancer EOS she never went in a mood with me,
she did go in a mood in a restaurant though when we EOS why couldn’t
she say ‘haitches’? **anon** on away- he’s away EOS why would you want
a chuffty badge? oh I see EOS **anon**? ah, that beasty EOS she’s- sh-
she had baby didn’t she? she got it took off her EOS ah, she hated me
EOS she hated me for a passion EOS I think it was the jogging pants
that did it for me EOS does he actually work at the **anon**? He does
EOS oh aye, she hated me EOS I think in the first year she did, second
years EOS ahh, **anon** was well pissed off with her there EOS didn’t
she stay in the first one like, in the bus all day EOS I remember you
dragging me to get some food like, ‘Nadine **anon**, you need to eat,
you’re gonna eat now’ EOS no, I didn’t eat the whole first day EOS I
don’t think I could cope being a runner, seeing the kitchen EOS why
would you pay like, nearly hundred and something quid f- we never had
the buffet in ours then EOS that was on the spinny things innit EOS I
wouldn’t mind but you didn’t even have hot water most of the time,
that coffee- coffee was minging EOS I remember serving coffee and it’s
just so rank EOS ‘people aren’t gonna’ chefs are well mean EOS our
chefs are mean at work, but yeah, they get away with murder as EOS
yeah, can’t they EOS no, you just stand there and look pretty EOS you
do though EOS gutted not coming to your kitchen I might come and EOS
and you’ll be like, ‘ahh, is this Nadine **anon**?’ EOS Alan **anon**,
Alan **anon**, Alan **anon**, you already told me this last EOS even
though you can’t remember the conversation we had I can EOS yeah and
then there was one about peppers, and she was allergic EOS and then
she’d EOS yeah, but she asked you about the red and- green, but she’s
actually allergic to all of them EOS standard yeah, just cos you can’t
remember EOS it’s the brightness I think EOS erm, from the very first
day? remember having take- picture taken at the front door EOS have
you not seen my pictures? you had a blazer? eurgh, minging I wore my
summer dress the first day EOS oh, in year seven? I thought you meant
like primary school EOS you pussy I remember when high school, there
was like the bikes and erm, my sister’s like, ‘right, wait there’ EOS
ten past three, ‘don’t move until I’m here, wait there Nadine **anon**
wait there’ I went, ‘okay’ and then I met **anon** and then we walked
round and saw like all our chum mates and that was it EOS and we used
to all get lost as a four, just to be late to lesson, I remember in
the first day of year two I was- told my Mum she didn’t need to come
and pick me up again, I’m walking home and my Mum never p- walked to
school pick me up ever again so yeah, it wasn’t that far really from
me house, it was quite far actually for year twos EOS so why is
**anon** coming round apart from pick the bag up? oh, so you’re not
staying? can’t she just like fall asleep and then you just do it EOS
ahhh, that guy was mank, I swear we’re gonna watch that on EOS ahh,
no, did I tell you about **anon** getting told off from the CTV EOS
hot plate, **anon**- sprawled out across the thingy, right **anon**
was like showing it to **anon**, **anon** comes in cos we’re like
laying up the chalet, and **anon** goes, ‘who’s this, who’s this?’ and
I was ‘oh, that was **anon** before on the hot plate’, **anon** went
ape shit at him, honest to God, it was so funny EOS cause **anon**
came into see us cos she’s been away, and she’s like missed them, so
she came into see us all, and then she was like, ‘right, what’s the
goss’ and then she went to **anon** and **anon** was like, ‘ah, come
and have a look at this, come what **anon** did’ I wouldn’t mind, but
he only came in at eight, and then he ha- he was like sprawled across,
and **anon** was like, ‘I wouldn’t mind but you didn’t even go out
last night’ EOS ‘don’t agree to breakfast if you couldn’t’ he was the
one who got us into trouble with the customers, apparently we’re moody
people and we don’t wanna be here so EOS what’s a late lunch? so it’s
a bit like a buffet EOS yeah, carry on EOS so what else did she say
EOS didn’t she walked away and you laughed again? well you- to be
fair, you were laughing EOS you’re so mean, I’m a good girl when I’m
in EOS shit, I don’t speak to them EOS I hate **anon**, with a passion
EOS it’s just not right, you know it’s not right can’t bel- believe my
Mum kicked off about it erm, you know when **anon** said, at EOS ahh,
cos Mum- Mum said something about the house being up, and **anon**
goes ‘oh, you moving?’ EOS and sh- sh- Mum goes, ‘yeah’, and then I
went, ‘yeah’ and **anon** like, ‘oh, where do you wanna move round-
round here again?’ and she goes, ‘aye, don’t you?’ and then you said
something, and you were like, ‘I couldn’t turn back time’ and it’s
like, ‘if we could turn back time’ EOS and then your Mum was like,
‘yeah’ and I was like, ‘bloody hell, it’s starting now’, can’t believe
she said it she knows I wouldn’t EOS you know me EOS oh yeah, it’s
‘nine’ EOS it’s what **anon** was doing when he took the piss out of
EOS yeah, I’ll just shut up now EOS what? pr- pr- pr- problem is
right, **anon** was trying to do it again and it wasn’t funny EOS it
had- it was like one of them moment ones where it had to be there,
it’s like, carry on from the conversation, isn’t it, innit EOS but
yeah just cos you’re dead posh round here EOS you are posh, told you
you’re posh EOS yeah anyone’s posh that- that can read EOS you can’t,
you- you say it EOS oh right, okay EOS we used to stay in each others
room and not talk EOS standard, isn’t it EOS just not talk EOS yeah,
that was different EOS I used to play on the playstation, but, you
know, got bit of obsessed EOS yeah, and then break me arm EOS well,
you know I was never in when I was a kid I was always out tea on the
go micro-chips EOS yeah, night port thing, night care yeah but what
are y- who- are you meant to kept him entertained through the day? my
Mum like looked after him, I just kept him entertained EOS I didn’t do
anything, the only thing I did was give him a drink now EOS and then
like spill it over himself I remember trying putting his coat on once,
it was so funny, I so just like laughed all- for most of the day, Mum
goes, ‘you not ready yet?’, and I went, ‘no, can’t put his coat on’.
We had a moveable bed, and you know how they can rise, well, my
brothers could actually go right up to the ceiling EOS my Mum wasn’t
very happy with me EOS no, we’re both on it EOS and we go, ‘let’s see
how high it could go’, we didn’t realise it EOS but it got stuck,
like, we couldn’t move EOS so we were all, ‘oh, I’ll have to jump
off’, and Mum goes, ‘you dare jump off’, ‘can’t get it down Mum, can’t
get it down’, she goes, ‘yeah, you can’, okay so, yeah, we got it down
in eventually EOS but you know, like, when you go right to the top,
and then it was just like yeah EOS one, two, three, four, five EOS
come on, mine EOS yeah, man I don’t like- I don’t want about school
EOS I’m bored, thanks EOS what games did you like playing as a kid?
the lying down game, can’t believe it’s used to call EOS I can’t
believe- Is that why you got into hospitality Alan **anon**? that is
sad bastards EOS me hairs all knotty now EOS did you not have any of
your mates, so you had to hang round with EOS where’s the pencil? oh
well all the ti- I used to be a chef with my Nan, used to make her sit
there, you know the old newspapers, used to roll the cutlery in that
cos my Nan never used to have napkins, and I used to like take her
order, used to have like a little apron out- made out of a tea towel,
and I used to like make- tell her to sit there and she used to have to
proper like pretend she was eating, I’m like, ‘right Nan, you’ve
finished that now’ ‘on to-’ EOS ‘on to that’ yeah, used to have all
like her frying pans out and stuff and like, yeah, ‘I’m cooking Nan’
she’s like, ‘what am I eating?’ EOS I was like, ‘dunno, just make it
up as you go along’ EOS erm, I dunno, it was always school or home I
remember EOS we used to play shoe competition on the swings EOS yeah,
where you- where you sh- kick your shoes off on the swing EOS oh my
God, get a grip EOS ah no, cos you know like at the park they’ve got
like- you’ve got that spider web haven’t you? and then they’ve got the
like fence haven’t they? My sister could get it over that fence,
that’s a bowling green of course, so it’s old biddies that own it EOS
so they used to kick off every time my sister you like, played, ‘can I
have me shoe back please’ EOS yeah man, back in the day back in the
day EOS I dunno, always used to play with my brother we just used to-
no used to just have a ride around, holding his wheelchair with
rollerblades on EOS rollerblades, used to be mint weren’t it EOS hold
onto the back EOS and then you’d just like standard innit EOS I never
played with me sister hardly EOS she always used to be round at
**anon** house EOS ah, so boring EOS I get bored EOS I only went to
keep her company, I didn’t say I needed to loose some weight problem
is, she got knackered before me EOS mm, well that’s what she said but
I- how can you just like do exercise for an hour and a half gets EOS
go like swimming or something keeps you more entertained EOS dunno,
don’t feel like you’re doing much EOS no, I thought we were going
swimming today, see, we could’ve gone EOS because you didn’t go to the
gym EOS no, no, don’t change the subject EOS yeah, because you’re the
one who said we could go swimming and EOS you’re like, ‘ah no, I’m
going to the-’ yeah I might tell my Mum to come early and drag her
swimming with us EOS that sounds like a plan done it EOS ahh, and the
chips from that s- yeah, sorry EOS ahh, they used to be fit EOS
they’re fit, fit as, that used to be like, weekend, me and my sister,
that’s what I did with my sister, go swimming with the floats, and you
know if you had arm bands you weren’t allowed to go past like a EOS
which ones did you have? Them blow-up ones that you couldn’t put on
your arm like , and you can ne- you’re a boy EOS my bum’s sore now EOS
do you remember the rubber ring ones that you can get now EOS can he
not swim? I bet you’re not that good EOS I bet you’re not that good
did you used to go swimming in high EOS ‘til what age? They’re meant
to stop after the first two- two years EOS you didn’t do it in high
school? Jammy EOS we had to do it all the way to year, erm, eleven,
it’s only cos people couldn’t swim in our class EOS no, they seriously
couldn’t, no-one could swim in our class apart EOS it’s like, really
bad, she’d right- ‘we’ll do front crawl’, and we all had to like, be
in the lanes cos, to like, our class was that small we had one lane
each EOS and no joke, she says, ‘do front crawl’, no one could do it,
they’ll do doggy paddle, she’s like, ‘ah, do backstroke’, everyone
could do backstroke apart from the ones who used to just kick their
legs EOS no, I never see the point, and then erm, the breaststroke
cou- no-one could- everyone could do the arms, but then they didn’t do
the legs EOS right, they just like kicked their legs, but if you don’t
do your legs right you co- it doesn’t work the same, cos you’re meant
to glide in the s- yeah EOS you see, yeah, I’m a geek really, and then
erm yeah, no-one could do butterfly apart from me, everyone used to
stand there and- the one where you go, pfff EOS and you know that one
that you’ve gotta lie on your back but you’ve got to like go forward
oh, okay EOS it’s like the, yeah, it is, it’s like an unusual one, and
then we used to have to spin all the way down and then you used to
have to jump in the pool to extend your legs apparently, d- no, we
weren’t allowed to EOS I remember you did a belly flop once, it was so
funny EOS no, I wasn’t allowed, my sister did for BTEC sport EOS she
had to be in fully clothed shoes and everything and they did like this
diving and what have you with EOS the clothes on and stuff EOS we used
to do water polo, that used to be good EOS and no-one ever wanted to
go in the deep end EOS I’m really confused