yeah just yeah just normally yeah EOS yeah although some of them
they’re doing up now EOS aren't they them ones that EOS yeah
advertising them as absolutely super-duper gorgeous apartments aren't
they EOS it's just like right behind Salford precinct EOS yeah,
because I’ve just moved like back into like sort of ‘Salford’ Salford,
cos I was in **anon** erm, and then before that I was- I was in
**anon** with me mum so probably not far from where you are near
**anon**, erm and before that I used to live, like down at the bottom,
didn’t I? in like the proper old terraces, like I had one of them, erm
and we sort of did all that up and then, just relationship came to an
end and I moved back with me mum but did a lot of work on that house
really EOS you did yeah , I was the painter EOS and they did all the
hard labour EOS or rather you did EOS yeah, this one’s getting there
now isn't it- your school’s gone now thought hasn’t it, that- cos your
school used to be there EOS cos you used to go over the bridge to the
playground or something EOS god so what is that- see and I was born at
**anon** hospital you was born at home though, weren’t you? yeah, it’s
just that- that’s me half brother, it’s just Xbox, Xbox, Xbox twenty-
four seven EOS and they live down in **anon** don't they EOS cos she
moved for work so, yeah boys do yeah EOS yeah, I think that’s why she
had that rag-doll sat on the sofa EOS in the hope that he’d get into
that EOS er it is- even I notice it now though like from when I was
little like just speaking to **anon** now he’s getting to like
thirteen it’s EOS it is difficult to talk to kids now isn't it? it’s-
unless you know about computers and you’re- you’re into like the games
and everything it’s like, my boyfriend **anon** he’s like into
computers but he’s Playstation three, and me brother’s Xbox and it’s
like, you know they’re totally different things both thinks one’s
better than the other and EOS it’s just- it’s crazy isn't it, they
just like- you’ll sit there and it’s like- just like playing like with
a console isn't it just thumbs and staring at the TV and EOS nothing
else- they could be EOS and we were thinking ‘oh proper little lads
thing’ you know, ‘bikes, he’ll love it’ or EOS he was like getting up
and going for like crisps or a coke or EOS just to get up and do
something like walking past all these lovely EOS to the burger van at
the end yeah mind you he was- he was getting a bit better towards the
end weren't he but EOS yeah, mm, yeah it is but- that’s what it is,
it’s like when- when we were little we used to play outside for hours
EOS and like it’d be dark, yeah and we had a den but me mum would be
shouting us in, you know to come in but now you can't kick them out
EOS yeah, in the trees yeah EOS yeah, right in front of the EOS the
dual carriage way EOS yeah like that quad bike thing EOS he used to
run off around the field EOS it had like a big tank on his strapped to
his back yeah EOS yeah you could catch them from behind yeah, through
the trees and over the top EOS used to go far that EOS yeah yeah ‘move
it a bit to the left son, bit to the left’ EOS and then he used to- he
was- he was a little terror I mean I was EOS but- but he w- well like
no cos everyone’s always like ‘oh, you were terrible, you were
terrible’, **anon** let himself out onto the flat roof and stuff
didn't he EOS he was a bit more dangerous EOS mine was all centred
around jealousy EOS oh was it a ty- the little car- the red car with
the yellow roof EOS yeah he had one of them I still maintain he asked
me to push him EOS yeah and he land- he landed he landed at the bottom
like upside-down giggling EOS but, oh yeah and then he got into the
wrestling didn't he EOS who was I was telling? I think it was **anon**
last week I was telling him, you know when he went and he had- we were
weren't we when he said he had like a Hulk Hogan bandana EOS like,
hit- Brett the Hitman's glasses EOS the big sponge hand, and he had
some of the Ultimate Warriors as well EOS he used- and when we used to
go to Camelot he used to always have the EOS face paint put on EOS you
used to always have to tell him what it was but, yeah and he got that
big sponge finger and then we had an argument and I broke the finger
off it so EOS no, yeah, yeah he still mentions it yeah EOS oh- oh,
yeah, now he’s into his cars it’s a shame he didn’t come to that
scooter thing EOS he would have enjoyed that EOS I think- yeah, we’ll
have to find a car one though cos **anon**- I think **anon** was
saying he’d have been more interested in the cars, cos he was, cos we
were like when we went to the shop beforehand and he said ‘do you want
anything’ he’s like, ‘oh yeah, I’ll have a can of Doctor Pepper’ and I
thought, ‘well, we’re going to get there in a minute and have a drink
anyway but’ so he went in and then he was sat there like dead quiet in
the front and me and **anon** were talking in the back and I thought,
‘better say something’ like you know, so I just said to him ‘so what
have you been up to this week **anon**?’, ‘XBox mainly’ EOS I was like
‘mm, okay’ , ‘any good games?’ EOS yeah oh god I know what ch- that
was hard EOS oh no I d- cos that’s what **anon** said to him he said
‘is there like a free mode, you know where you could like sort of do
your own track?’ and he said ‘no’ so EOS and he just makes stuff up
EOS yeah, well that’s good EOS yeah, that’s it yeah, cos it’s just-
yeah and that- well that’s what **anon** was saying as well cos he
said you’re not really learning the song, are you, even though you are
playing along to that song EOS yeah, it’s like the- you can get like
the drums with it can't you, they have like the headset so you can
sing along to it as well can you imagine that you have to ac- I’ve
watched like **anon** and her- her boyfriend and his mate do it, and
you have to like it- it records your notes so you have to like get-
hit the high note if you don’t you like fail the challenge and- oh no,
he’s not a good singer his mate, her boyfriend won’t even try he just
plays the guitar EOS yeah that’s true EOS oh I- I don’t know EOS yeah,
well there was a couple when we went to Spain there was a few EOS
karaoke singers weren't they, that weren’t drunk that get up EOS and
do the same song every night EOS there was that old guy that used to
sing that song, that- oh god I can’t remember what it was now EOS
‘Don't Close Your Eyes’ or something like that EOS and then what was
the ones that they always used to sing, he used to sing the lad that
owned the bar you know to warm everyone up EOS I can’t remember what
it was now EOS yeah s- g- I got dragged up I hate karaoke I don’t mind
laughing at everyone else, but I hate doing it and you made me get up
EOS and the whole world can see it, yeah the whole world can see it on
EOS no one remembered EOS yeah but I didn’t film it though, I’ve not
got it, it was- oh yeah I did have it EOS but I think I lost it on the
computer EOS yeah that Irish lad yeah EOS cos that- that’s I had to
get up and sing the Greece Megamix with this lad I’d never met EOS
we’d like literally- he’d walked into the bar and I think his granddad
had a place over there or something, and he just sat down cos we were
on the table nearest the door EOS yeah, yeah and then he was sat with
us weren't he for the night and then we had to get up in the end and
sing with him EOS and what was the other one we did, ‘Midnight Train
to Georgia’ was it? Oh no ‘Leaving on a Jet Plane’ EOS cos it- weren't
it like a couple of days before we were going home EOS or something
and we had to get up and sing this song and, I- like it was only me
and me dad that knew it and he didn’t know and he was just like
filling little bits in you know in the back he’d be like EOS like in
the back as we were singing when he didn’t even know the words , it’s
quite funny but EOS but we- it was really late on when we got up
though wasn't it EOS cos when you first get in there it was hammered,
like it was absolutely packed weren't it EOS and when- the people that
really hate the karaoke all get up and leave as that starts yeah EOS
and then you just get left there with like the people that like the
karaoke and the really die-hard drinkers like EOS was that Majorca?
yeah, yeah and make lists about lists yeah EOS in one day EOS where
was we on holiday when we bought **anon** that blow-up boat EOS yeah
he had like this inflatable boat, but he- wouldn't go in the water cos
his legs would go through the holes and into the water, so he wouldn't
go in it so he used to just sit at the side of the pool in this thing
with his trunks and his EOS and never go in the water. yeah, I think
we got a picture of him somewhere sat in it haven't we? yeah, the
Wizzy club when I was a tree. **anon** yeah, I think s- yeah,
somewhere yeah. what was that? won’t have been Thomas the Tank? cos
that was after. oh I don't know. oh God, yeah, the Pied Piper. yeah,
and then we had the fancy dress there didn't we and he did me up like
in this vest EOS and made me a hula skirt didn't you out of palms.
yeah, yeah, so you can't take it out of sequence. did I win? intellig-
you can't have it all. I could read. yeah, there's a language one for
you, was she a Geordie? yeah, and her name was **anon**. but I thought
she was **anon** EOS I thought her name was **anon** EOS I bet they
thought I was taking the mick out of them EOS I think so, yeah EOS I
think so EOS ah, but yeah God, it’s crazy isn’t it, what you remember
EOS but- I don’t- it’s whether- cos when you hear the story, you don’t
know if you remember it or EOS you just think you remember it, you
know, cos someone’s told you EOS cos you’re too little, aren’t you?
But I do remember that book, I remember liking that book mm EOS wait,
I bet- I doubt **anon** had a favourite book EOS cos **anon**- me
brother doesn’t like reading EOS I’ve always had loads and loads of
books, and he’s just into EOS wrestling was his favourite EOS yeah, he
was better at Maths EOS and I was always better at the English and the
History side of everything, the writing, and- but he hates that so
it’s like, if he ever applies for a job it’s like, ‘Natalie **anon**,
can you come and do the big question for me on the application form?’
EOS no, I d- I’ve already done it for him last time, when he applied,
so he’s used the same one EOS you’d have got one, yeah EOS well that’s
it cos they’re too cheeky now aren’t they EOS cos they know they can
get away with it, cos they can’t do anything, but like give them
detention or give them lines or something like that EOS for being
naughty EOS crazy, isn’t it EOS is that like, before they used to do
things like, Saint Joseph’s penny and all that stuff EOS oh, they’ve
always had that EOS fill it they they empty it EOS and give it you
back EOS the tea- you had a teacher EOS so you definitely got them EOS
it was just whether you were gonna get one or five EOS yeah God it’s
ment- now they’d just- cos now you’d just get lines, I was actually
reading something on facebook the other day, all about **anon**, you
know, and about the teachers where people like coming on an
reminiscing and they’re like posting on there and stuff, and there was
one guy **anon**, that used to do the IT, and I thought he was alright
but they all used to take the mickey out of him and he had like a
squeaky voice and he had like this massive big boil on his head EOS
and like, he was just a little bit, you know, a bit sweaty and, just
one of them, and they all used to call him **anon** EOS but he- he
actually got sacked and I think all he actually did was, somebody was
like- yeah, he shouted at someone, and someone was being disruptive
and it was on- I think it was only like the- he was there for the
first year I think I was there, so I would’ve only been like, what,
twelve, and then after the second- the second year he never came back
and from what I- I gather he just like literally, asked someone to
leave and they were messing about and wouldn’t go out, and he just
pushed them outside the door, and that was it, he was gone EOS just
for like, forcefully removing somebody from the class EOS and cos we-
none of us knew like why he’d left and they were all like sort of
talking about it on there and, there used to be this other guy as
well, erm, the D-T teacher, **anon**, and erm, they all used to take
the mickey out of him cos he used to like, wear dead tight pants, and
he used to stand like an action man, but he was only like five foot
four or something EOS yeah, yeah, and they used to call him like- he
used to call all the lads, ‘listen, sonny jim’ EOS like, you know when
he was talking to them, yeah EOS but he- apparently he- they were
saying on there we never- I didn’t know that, but his brother was at-
famous, he was an actor, in some like TV programme, I can’t remember
what he was in now but, he turned into like, a bit of a disgrace like,
his brother, and apparently like he never you know, wanted to talk
about him, and he didn’t really have anything to do with him, or
anything, and it’s- they were like all talking about it on there, so
then there was like **anon**, our DT teacher, he was mental, he used
to like, this **anon** guy, and like he- he’d like deliberately say
people’s names wrong, just to wind them up, so like my n- my mate, her
name was **anon**, and when he used to read the register out, he used
to just read out **anon** EOS like that to her, and she used to go,
‘I’m not answering you, if you don’t use me name properly’, he goes,
‘right, you’re in’ EOS there was some characters but, it’s- they- some
of them were good, but it was more like, sort of the older ones, you
know, the proper old fashioned ones, but like, when they were all new,
they were all like, sort of they’d either be intimidated by the kids
or, they’d just like be super P-C, cos with it being a EOS as well, it
was just, you know, people are all the more eager to complain aren’t
they but EOS cos think, they were a lot smaller when I was at school
EOS yeah, to someone else EOS yeah that’s- that- my favourite teacher
though was **anon**, me History teacher, cos she was great, and cos I-
yeah, oh I know she loved me, yeah, cos I loved history but, there was
that- she was like that though, she’d boil, she’d be dead nice and
like dead chatty and if you loved work and you wanted to work she
loved you, but if you wanted to just like doss about, she didn’t have
any time for you, and there was this lad in my class, **anon**, and he
wanted to be a pilot, and he- he did history just because he wanted to
learn about the planes that were used in the wars, and he’d obviously
didn’t get to learn that much about it at- I don’t think, to what he
was expecting but- yeah, yeah, I think he actually- I think he has got
his pilots license now though, but erm, yeah, and he used to like sit
next to me like in class, I remember I was doing this mock test as it
was coming up to our GCSEs, and sh- she’s stood there and she’s like,
going through all the answers after and everybody’s saying like what
they got, and what they got, and she’s saying what the right answer
is, and then he’s going like down this page and he’s going, ‘I haven’t
got that question’, so she’s going, ‘you must have it **anon**, you
must have it, you’re just not looking at it right’, ‘I haven’t got it,
I haven’t got the next one either’ like that, and she goes, ‘let me
have a look’ like that, so she takes the paper off him, and he’d been
doing a completely different paper to all of us, it had got mixed up
in there and he goes, ‘I wouldn’t mind, but I thought it was a bit
wrong, cos when I looked at Natalie’s **anon** answers in the exam’
EOS ‘they weren’t anything to do with my questions’ EOS and you could
just see- that’s what she was like, she was quite pale, and she had
this big like, mad perm, so her hair was like, out on end, and you
could see the blood, you know, like rising up her face, and he’s
going, ‘there’s gonna be steam coming out of her ears in a minute,
there’s steam coming out of her ears’ and he used to like really wind
her up, and like, you’d be outside the class, and she’d line you all
up to come in and then she’d walk down the line and make sure you were
all in EOS and then she’d let you all go in, like one by one and he’d
be like, behind me in line, going ‘walking the mile’ EOS ‘walking the
green mile’ she was proper like- cos we did all the Nazis and
everything EOS yeah, yeah, yeah, I had it in me school bag, cos me Dad
had leant it me and I’d literally read about four pages, and she saw
it like as I was unpacking stuff EOS and she like picked it up and
she’s stood there in front of the class going, ‘look at this,
Natalie’s **anon** got ‘mein kampf’.’ And I was like, ‘shut up’ EOS
they already think I’m a swot EOS yeah, yeah, in first year, yeah EOS
‘beam me up swotty’ yeah EOS but he- she was that enthusiastic about
Hitler and all the Nazis and everything, just- not about what they
did, obviously, but just about teaching about it, and it was the bit
she was obviously really interested in, he’s- this lad, **anon**, used
to call her, **anon** EOS cos she was just so into it, I remember we
went on this trip to London, and we’d had to have like this essay in
about something to do with the Nazis before we went, and he’d not done
it, and she’d give him like and extension, to give it to her before we
went on this trip, and he’d still not give it to her and we were sat
at the back of the coach on the way there and he goes, did- I said,
‘did you give her that essay?’, so he goes, ‘did I heck, no I didn’t
get it in, I just avoided her all day today ‘til we were leaving’, so
I went, ‘oh right’, and we were having a laugh about it, and I said,
‘she won’t let you get away with it you know’, he’s like, ‘I know,
we’ll be there on the London Eye and she’ll be like, climbing up the
side of it with the essay in her mouth’ EOS and he was like, one of
those, they sat there at the back, you know, drinking vodka out of a
cap like, have it in a seven up bottle or something EOS crazy it’s
always like- h- erm, not at high school, we didn’t, no, at primary
school we did, we had hamsters erm, and stick insects EOS oh, we had
fish as well EOS they smell, yeah EOS yeah, through its bottom lip EOS
I bet it was when the weight of the dirt went on it EOS ooh, so not
only was it twitching and half dead i- under soil- it was drowning
under there as well EOS oh no, we had hamsters, and we had erm, you
have always have hamsters, don’t you? remember- cos **anon** had that
hamster that he brought home as well we had fish, and I remember one
of the fish died and the teacher was like, ‘oh, you need to flush it
down the toilet’, and I was really upset, cos we had fish when we were
little, didn’t we? Goldfish, and I was like, ‘you can’t put it down
the toilet, it’s not right’, ‘oh it’s dead, it’ll be alright’ and i- I
was like, I- yeah, but I was like worrying about it, she went off and
did it, and I’m thinking, ‘God, what if it isn’t dead’, it would be
like stuck in the u-bend, you know, in the toilet EOS just there
forever, swimming around EOS and then we had the stick insects that no
one wanted to clean cos you had to take them out, ooh God, I don’t
like insects EOS did he not just poo all over? oh yeah, we had them,
yeah EOS I’m surprised it ever bothered to come out to fly EOS oh,
that’s nasty, remember them cockatiels we had though, and we used to
let them out and they’d fly around in the living room and I had one,
mine was **anon** like the grey one, wasn’t it, with the red cheeks
EOS and then **anon** had, what was his, **anon**? His white one, was
it EOS and it used to like land on his head, remember, and it used to
route through his hair EOS it used to like- I dunno like, yeah, yeah
used to like, clean his head, you know like with his beak, was really
weird EOS I remember them getting out one day, into the rockery at the
back, and they were going behind and me **anon** was there, and he’s
quite big me **anon**, isn’t he? And he was like, running around EOS
from one side of the rockery to the other trying to catch these
rabbits, remember that happening EOS is that the dogs? I thought- I
thought I haven’t got anything in the washer EOS sounds like the
washing machine moving EOS oh, yeah, yeah, yeah EOS I bet me Nanna was
glad, weren’t she, I bet she didn’t like having EOS no, so how did you
like get from the flats to there, did you always just used to walk?
it’s quite far that EOS yeah, it’s quite f- do people not use the
buses? used to go on your bike- that’s quite far though isn’t it, from
where you were? kids don’t do that now though, you never like see them
playing out- when they’re outside they’re just being a menace unless
they’re really little like the ones around here, where they’re out on
the bikes, you know, and stuff like that, and you see them on the
skateboards and stuff, now they’re just EOS vandalising summet aren’t
they, or drinking on the corner, or- back outside, get some more dirt
in it, you’ll be alright EOS yeah, and they have all them signs up
don’t they and stuff EOS well now, if kids do go on it and hurt their
self, they end up claiming, don’t they EOS I think what it is now, is
just people- kids then were just like naughty, and they were playing,
but now, they’re just disrespectful aren’t they, I think EOS there’s a
difference, isn’t there? but people were just curious and that EOS
yeah but now you see- I saw some- a little kid the other day, in a
full batman suit, just walking round Morrison’s with his Mum EOS just
something to EOS cover your face, yeah EOS well it’s like when I was-
little I remember like there was- there was like sort of two ways of
dressing up f- f- for Halloween weren’t there, there was like EOS erm,
yeah, but it’s out there EOS erm, there was like two ways of dressing
up for Halloween, there was like, you could either- get you like erm,
proper stuff- remember when I used to have them EOS do you remember
them that you used to put on, and then like they’d have the red nails
on the end, you’d have them or you’d just like go totally the other
way and just wear summet black and tie a bin bag like round you and
then you’d just go and run round if you wanted to be really lazy, and
just knock on the doors, but then when you’re a kid like you love
doing that and then like, when you get older now, and all the kids
start coming round, you just like close the curtains and turn all the
lights off and pretend you’re not in so you don’t have to give them
anything EOS cos like, when I had my other house, I- I didn’t have any
sweets in, I’d completely forgot, and I had like a few chocolate
biscuits, and then, like, I gave a few of them out, and after that I’d
run out and they were like, this last group come round, and I was
like, ‘oh, I’ll just give them twenty p each’ you know, and then once
they knew there was money coming from one address EOS they all came
back and started knocking on the door, so I had to like turn all the
lights off downstairs, and go and sit upstairs, in the back bedroom
cos like the terraces are like, alleys, aren’t they, in between? so
they wouldn’t know we were in there, so we was like camped out in the
bedroom for the whole night at the back, with like this tiny little TV
and the computer, just watching that like, ignoring them all knocking
on the door EOS go walking round EOS and then when they used to ask
you for the trick you always used to be like, ‘I don’t know that,
can’t I just have some sweets’ EOS yeah, it was like, there was them
benches round the side weren’t EOS I was telling **anon** that cos he
was- we’d drove past the shop the other week but I think it was when
we went up to **anon** we were coming back, and they’ve took all the
trees down in front of it now EOS yeah, do you remember when we used
to stand there, me and **anon**, and we used to be ripping all the
bark off them trees EOS and stuff at the side, and then there was the
chippy next door, and then I was telling him about when we used to sit
in the video shop when it was closed in the day, and we’d like, sit in
behind the counter and there was like the door for the store room, and
we had like them little goblins that used to stick and roll down
things, and we used to be throwing them at the door, and racing them
EOS like down the door and th- but they never used to make it all the
way down, they used to always get half way and fall off EOS yeah, cos
they were just covered in that much dirt from the floor that they
didn’t stick anymore EOS Yeah, **anon** still not that nice now
though, is it EOS and they’re building all them houses now aren’t
they, around it EOS to hide it, the middle of it EOS yeah, building
all nice stuff- yeah, it’s cos in- cos they’re bringing all the BBC up
and everything EOS they’re hoping they’re all gonna move in aren’t
they EOS yeah, and that’s going on the Lowry isn’t it, what used to be
there though, where the Lowry is? no, it’s all like warehouses isn’t
it, yeah EOS yeah, that no one wants to live in, yeah EOS right on an
industrial estate EOS yeah, and the controllers were on top of the
lift EOS I hate that though, when you’re in a lift EOS and it doesn’t
do what you want, cos you always think, ‘I’m gonna get stuck, the
doors not gonna open’, I did it at work the other day, I went in the
lift, cos they’re working on our building at the minute, so we have
to- cos we’re on the ground floor, they’re working on like all the
floors in between, where we were able to go to the toilets, cos
there’s not toilets on ours, erm, and then the ones where they’ve got
nobody on them, they’re block- they’re locked, so we have to b- going
up to the seventh floor to use the toilets, and erm, like, I went in
and I was that- I had me phone with me, I was on me lunch and I went
in, I had me phone with me, I’m like messing with it, I walked into
the lift, then it goes, ‘doors closing’ like this, I’m stood there and
I’m thinking, ‘it’s not going’ EOS nothing’s happening and I’d just
not pressed the button, but it was quiet, and then the lights started
going off EOS and I was thinking, ‘oh God, I’m stuck’ EOS and if you
don’t, you will do when you get stuck in it EOS I don’t think so, no
EOS wait for a scream EOS it is, isn’t it? It is simple