 three EOS yep EOS go on EOS one, two, three EOS yeah, that’s fine,
okay, whenever you’re ready, thank you EOS right, we’re okay, oh, what
was your best- what was your best or funniest memory when you were
young? I don’t know, erm, EOS well EOS go on, if you can think of
anything you go first EOS I wouldn’t- I- I wouldn’t exactly call it
the best or funniest but it w- an incident that’s always stuck into my
mind, I wasn’t a- I wasn’t a lover of dolls, but me Mother’d dressed
this doll up for Christmas, and it was all in green georgette, I’ve
never forgotten that EOS oh right EOS and I’d gone out shopping with
me Mother, we lived up near Hope hospital then and I’d gone out with
her, to Eccles, and when I came back, the doll was on the settee,
leant up against a- a cushion, and me two older brothers were there, I
hadn’t got the younger one then, and erm, they’d scooted out of the
house you see when we came home and when I picked the doll up, and,
they’d gagged it EOS and I took the gag off and when I took the gag
off the face was split in half EOS ah no EOS oh, well, as I say, I
didn’t care for dolls at all when I was young EOS I still don’t,
they’ve got to be very pretty dolls for me to EOS oh right EOS so of
course I was- I was a mardy so I started EOS crying then, you know EOS
aww EOS so they were in trouble when me Dad came home from work cos
that was something- I treasured it because they didn’t have a lot of
money, you know, when we were children EOS yeah EOS so that’s EOS
that’s your thing EOS that’s my thought about my two brothers EOS
right, erm, EOS you alright love? EOS I think- I think erm, EOS
alright love EOS I think mine is erm, EOS right EOS going on erm,
going on holiday, erm, to Fleetwood, Knot End EOS oh yes EOS erm,
paddling in the paddling pool at Knot End I think that’s- that’s one
of my earliest memories when I was EOS **anon** gone out EOS only-
when I was only little EOS yes EOS you know, but that was a great
adventure to go to EOS yes EOS to Knot End EOS and to go on holiday
EOS yeah, go on holiday, yeah EOS yeah EOS we used to go to Fleetwood
EOS oh, well I went to Fleetwood EOS yes EOS as well cos I had
relatives that lived there so EOS yes EOS that was erm, EOS yeah EOS
that was good EOS me Mother always said, ‘when I get some money, and I
retire, I will come and live at Fleetwood’ EOS oh right, she never did
EOS which she never did EOS she never- she never had enough money to
buy a house there EOS no EOS yeah EOS no, I don’t know- I don’t know
how we- we did it because me Dad was out of work for ten years EOS
yes, my Dad was EOS when I was- when I was born, you know and erm EOS
mm EOS so erm, there was no money coming in cos you were means tested
then weren’t you EOS mmhmm EOS and- that’s going off the subject that
isn’t it EOS it is yes, really EOS see, we can talk EOS yeah, yeah,
well, yes, we can EOS yeah erm, were there lots of kids to play with
when you were growing up? No not, no, I didn’t- EOS I w- EOS no I
didn’t have- EOS yes I did, EOS oh EOS cause I lived in Salford then,
you know, in a terraced house, so there was plenty of children around
EOS mm EOS yes EOS no, well I lived in Wythenshawe, I was born in
Wythenshawe EOS and erm, lived there all me life ‘til getting married
but there weren’t- weren’t very many children EOS oh wasn’t there, no?
EOS no, no, not at all, no. Did you have to help out around the house?
No no, not at all, I had an- EOS no, no, not until- EOS what did you
do in your free time? EOS I was way, oh, I musta been in my twenties
before I started doing any housework EOS yeah EOS yes EOS what did you
and your family do in free time when you’re growing up? I were mainly
involved with church work, boys- girls brigade and- and the choir, and
Sunday school, and- EOS I was in the Brownies EOS that was- were you?
EOS yes EOS mm EOS and then in me teens I was in the girls training
corps EOS oh were you EOS and I played a trumpet EOS ahhh EOS I
couldn’t sing so I played the trumpet EOS here you are, what games did
you play as a kid? EOS ah, hopscotch EOS mmm, yeah EOS erm, rally
vino, erm, EOS oh I’d a- I’d a- a scooter, you know EOS oh, I had a
bike but it was EOS second-hand EOS oh I, yes, I had a bike that was
second hand EOS mm EOS first time on it I went down the kerb and fell
off it EOS oh well, that wasn’t very clever EOS didn’t have any
brothers and sisters EOS I had three brothers erm, one four year older
than me, one two year older, and one eight year younger than me EOS oh
right EOS who was always called, ‘our youngster’ EOS aww EOS yes EOS
can you remember a good story that your par- grandparents used tell
you oh, I don’t know about that, erm, oh EOS well me Grandma remem- I
remember her telling me that me Grandfather who I didn’t know, erm,
was carrying erm, a bo- a coffin downstairs, and suddenly a noise came
from the coffin EOS and they were frightened to death but it- it’s
obviously th- the body wind comes out when it’s- EOS mm EOS yes EOS
that’s right yes EOS and me Grandma used to laugh her head off about
it, she said, ‘you’re Granddad was worried to death about it’ EOS erm,
EOS did you ever get hurt- oh yeah- EOS one- o- one story- yeah, erm,
yeah, when erm when th- do you remember when Manchester was bombed EOS
yes I do mm EOS well that night of that raid, erm, it was, I think it
was a Saturday because we were going to church the following morning,
and church was in Moss Side EOS yes EOS and of course that’d got badly
hit, and when I got to Sunday school, the Sunday school t- our- my
Sunday school teacher, **anon** wasn’t there and nobody knew where she
was and erm, there was a search went out for her, and her house had
been bombed EOS bombed EOS and they found her, in her bed, three
streets away EOS th- st- away EOS in the loft of another house EOS oh
I know that- that happened in Salford with somebody but EOS and I can-
I can remember that EOS they- they were found on the ground you know,
EOS right EOS yeah, that was near the town hall in Salford EOS oh
right, right EOS did you get hurt whilst playing when you were a kid?
EOS oh yes, many a time EOS yeah, but a- but not- not badly- not badly
hurt, I was never badly- I had a lot of illnesses and erm, spent a lot
of time off school erm, so consequently when me Mother took me back,
unfortunately the teacher we had didn’t think there was any point in
teaching me cos I’d missed too much school EOS hmm EOS mm EOS and so I
could sit at the back of the class, and what I took in, I took in, and
what I didn’t, I didn’t, so she wasn’t interested in teaching me EOS
I- I was climbing EOS ooh EOS on the back- in the yard at home EOS oh
right EOS up the back door, to the- that goes out into the entry, and
it had slats across like that, thick ones you know, I’d climbed up and
then I slipped down, I cut me knee open, so of course, I had to go up
to Salford Royal EOS mm EOS and erm, I was going backwards and
forwards for six months with that because it- EOS were you? EOS yes,
it was stitched, EOS yeah EOS but the stitches broke EOS oh right EOS
and of course, you know, those days it was EOS yeah EOS and erm, so I-
that was one of my accidents EOS oh right EOS I was very good at
falling, even then Kristina **anon** EOS no I just had all the
ailments, measles, chicken pox, whooping cough, all the- all the lot I
had one after the other EOS oh- oh I didn’t, I just- I had measles EOS
yeah EOS I had German measles when I was- when I had **anon** EOS oh I
had German meas- EOS mm EOS I remember the doctor coming and saying,
‘why couldn’t you’ve had English measles, cos we’re fighting the
Germans’ EOS what kind of games did you play- Do you want outdoor
games there? EOS erm EOS whatever EOS played marbles EOS oh well s- we
have said some, haven’t we, oh yes that was another game EOS remember
playing marbles and- EOS I do remember, I took me brother’s marble bag
out ooh, and I couldn’t play marbles EOS oh right, so did you loss
them EOS so of course, I- I lost them EOS you lost them, oh dear EOS
oh, my word EOS yeah EOS he was me favourite brother, and erm, he
wasn’t me favourite after that day, not for a few days, no EOS no, no,
I bet, no EOS no, I bet he wasn’t your- you weren’t his favourite
either EOS I wasn’t his favourite girl, no EOS no erm, right, what’s
the next one EOS where did you go to school? I went to school in
**anon**, that’s where I was born, school was only round the corner, I
went from being five, to being fifteen, I never passed any exams, so I
was just at the same school, just went from one end of the field, EOS
to the other EOS to the other end of the field, infants and juniors
and seniors, that- that was me, until I left at fifteen EOS and I went
to one called **anon** in **anon**, Salford, then we moved up to near
**anon**, and it was **anon** EOS oh right EOS it was down a dirt
path, and erm, from there, we went back to **anon** and I went to
**anon**, then I passed the scholarship, clever so-and-so EOS erm, and
went to **anon**, and that had to close down because of the war EOS oh
right, EOS so erm, and then they opened a brand, new school, **anon**
it was called then EOS oh EOS and I finished up me schooling there EOS
oh right EOS so erm, EOS I didn’t enjoy school, as you can guess with
missing out so much, so my school days were not particularly happy
days at all EOS oh I enjoyed school EOS mm, and I don’t remember me
first day at school at all EOS but me Dad always used to say, ‘you’ll
be sorry when you leave you know’ EOS mm EOS and I was never sorry
when I left EOS no EOS no EOS no, I wasn’t either, no EOS ooh, what do
you remember from your f- EOS and then funnily enough I went into
another school, nursing schools, so EOS so you were schooling all your
life really EOS so I was at school again yeah EOS what do you remember
from your first day at school? EOS were you ever blamed for something
that wasn’t your fault? EOS well I was only three when I went EOS and
the story goes that, I was missing one day and me- me Mother was- went
looking for me and erm, I was found in the school playground where me
brother was going to, and I did it a couple of times and so in the end
he said, ‘oh, you can leave her’ EOS oh EOS aww EOS so that’s how I
started my school, at three EOS oh, at three EOS mm EOS oh right what
were your summer holidays like? Well summer holidays were, EOS as I
say were, during the war and that it was very difficult really wasn’t
it EOS mm EOS so I don’t know my- how my parents managed to take me on
holiday but we- we always went as I say, usually Clevelees, Fleetwood,
round there stay with erm, a relative did get as far as Torquay once
erm EOS well we used to go to Fleetwood, and we always stayed in a
boarding house where you- you did your own catering EOS that’s right,
yeah, yeah EOS it’s cheaper that way you see and the- EOS remember Mum
used to send a trunk on, in advance EOS did she, yes EOS yeah and then
take erm, provisions with us EOS yeah, oh yes, you took provisions EOS
mm EOS and then you went out and shopped for your bacon and stuff like
that, you know EOS mm, went to Wales, did remember going to Wales to
Capel Curig in W- during the war, and we stayed with this erm, lady, I
think it was a farm, because we couldn’t believe the meals we were
getting EOS getting EOS there were joints of meat EOS oh gosh, yeah
EOS and sides of bacon and EOS yeah EOS all the things that we didn’t
get EOS at home, you know, it was erm, absolutely wonderful for a
week, so I don’t know how we managed that, I’ve no idea about that one
erm, activities at school? No, the only thing I did at school was
music, I didn’t mind that cos that was the only thing I was interested
in, no sports at all, or drama EOS well I’ve d- when we went back to,
erm, **anon** after the blitz, we did a lotta sport, we used to go
into **anon** EOS oh yeah, yeah EOS and erm, or **anon**, which was
next door and we used to play Netball and Basketball and all sorts,
you know EOS oh right, yeah EOS I was good at that, the lads always
chose me to be on their team EOS I remember **anon** saying about
**anon** because he was born in erm, EOS in Salford EOS in Salford,
yeah EOS yes EOS yeah he went to school in Salford EOS well we just
lived across the river from there EOS oh did you EOS yeah EOS he went
to erm EOS ooh, I can’t remember its name now no, can’t remember its
name, can remember he went to **anon** church EOS oh so- so he was a
catholic then EOS well his- his- his Dad was EOS oh EOS cause his Dad
was **anon**, he took the name **anon** EOS yeah EOS for his
confirmation you know EOS so he- it depends which side of Salford he
lived in EOS erm EOS if he went to **anon** because EOS erm EOS erm
cos it’s the nearest- EOS I know that- I know they lived for a part on
**anon** EOS oh that was Weast EOS Weast and then he lived somewhere
else as well, cos his Mum had a shop EOS oh EOS but I can’t remember
where that was, it was an off license and grocers EOS oh EOS but erm I
can’t remember- I can’t remember me teachers can’t remember their
names no EOS describe your favourite teacher, EOS well, that was me-
EOS ooh EOS that was me music teacher erm EOS well I think my
favourite EOS was me French teacher EOS oh right, oh we didn’t do
languages EOS Miss- **anon** EOS oh right EOS she was a, quite a bonny
lady, you know, but I liked her EOS mmhmm EOS very much and me
favourite teacher, well, erm, me least favourite teacher, I remember
her quite well EOS she w- I’ve- I’ve- I’ve not got to mention the name
have I EOS it- no you don’t have to no EOS no EOS you can do EOS I
shouldn’t think she’ll be alive now EOS no, she wouldn’t be well, her
name was **anon** actually EOS oh right EOS but she was, no she wasn’t
my favourite teacher at all EOS oh yeah, yeah, well that was a bit
like the one EOS how about you? EOS who decided I wasn’t worth
teaching EOS so, and I can’t remember her name, no way EOS did you
ever get into trouble for something at school? Yes EOS no EOS talking
too much in class EOS oh right EOS and were you ever blamed for
something that wasn’t your fault? Yes I was EOS were you? EOS yes,
well, me Dad had bought me a- a fountain pen and I- it went missing,
you know, EOS mm EOS and we were- the teacher had gone out of the
class and we were doing out work and then suddenly, EOS this girl near
me took out my fountain pen EOS oh EOS and just as the teacher walked
back in, mouthy **anon** shouted, ‘that’s my pen’ EOS so of course sh-
she called me out, and it w- the teacher that- that lesson used to
teach me Dad and erm, his sisters when they were young, you know EOS
right EOS ‘**anon**’ of course, that was me maiden name, erm, ‘what’s
the problem’ and, she said, ‘you’re starting again’, I said, ‘no, th-
that was my- that’s my pen that me Dad bought me’ so you see, and she
was blaming me for the- causing the trouble EOS mmhmm EOS anyway, she
apologised afterwards and I was allowed to go and clean the cupboard
out and I didn’t know whether that was an honour or not, EOS or a
punishment, you know, cos I wasn’t- I didn’t do cleaning EOS I do now
but I didn’t then EOS oh right EOS but erm, but you see i- if- if any-
if I did something wrong EOS she used to say ‘hm, just like your
Father’ EOS oh no EOS oh right EOS yes EOS mm EOS and when I went to
infant school there was a teacher there that knew me Dad, phew,
‘typical of **anon** daughter’ used to say, you know EOS oh right EOS
was he naughty then? EOS was he EOS y- yeah he must’ve been, he
must’ve been EOS he must’ve been, mustn’t he EOS yes EOS right, where
are your parents from EOS yes EOS well, my paren- my Mother was from
Manchester, she was from erm, an area in Moss Side, and my Father my
Father was born, erm, in Liverpool EOS my parents were, Mother was
well I don’t really know where she was born to be honest because her
par- her Mother died when she was three erm, so I don’t really know a
lot, but she went to live in erm, Manchester, with erm, some Uncles
and Aunts so, but the rest of her life she lived in Salford EOS until
she died mm EOS erm, how has your community changed in recent- well I
don’t know about the community in Wythenshawe, I think that’s erm,
that’s changed quite a bit unfortunately it got a bad reputation but
erm, when my parents went- moved from Moss Side to Wythenshawe they
were asked, would they like to go and live in the ga- the new garden
city EOS new garden city EOS which was Wythenshawe and they erm, they
moved to there, and there erm, house, and did they want the one with
the kitchen on the front or did- and the living room, or did they want
the one with a front parlour and a living room- EOS and two separate
rooms EOS yeah one was erm, the one with the kitchen on the front was
ten shillings a week, and the other one was ten and six, so they had
to have the ten shilling one EOS ten shilling one EOS because me Dad
was out of work EOS of work, that’s right EOS yeah, yeah and they-
they spent all the- all their life and I did, right until I married
EOS mm EOS yeah EOS well I the last house me Mum and Dad were in erm,
that was rented of course, I got married from there, and then I got a
house exactly the same in the next street EOS oh did you EOS two years
after I got married, yes EOS right EOS so EOS what’s taken places in
your town? Ooh, I don’t know EOS oh gosh, that’s- EOS Manchester’s
changed a lot hasn’t it really EOS it has, and Salford has EOS and
Salford has hasn’t it EOS yes EOS yeah, yeah EOS I mean erm, now then
we had- somebody was correcting me the other day, I said about Salford
docks, al- EOS oh right EOS well it was always known as Manchester
docks, I said it was still in Salford, EOS it was Salford docks EOS it
was on our side of the river EOS that’s right, yeah EOS and the canal
EOS yeah, Salford docks, there was a pub on- there was supposed to be
a pub on every corner and you could- EOS that’s right EOS you could
never complete it could you EOS that- if you were a drinker, yeah,
yeah EOS yeah EOS you could never complete the- EOS yes EOS the
circuit could you EOS yeah, yes EOS yeah, that was a- EOS that was on
EOS erm, Trafford Road EOS yeah EOS yes EOS yeah, I remem- I remember
that erm- EOS I didn’t drink so EOS that saying EOS I didn’t- I didn’t
try any of them EOS no, no, EOS we didn’t but I EOS yeah EOS just
remember that saying, you know, that erm- EOS yes, you couldn’t pass a
corner without a pub EOS that’s right, yeah, yeah, erm, it’s nice to
see that they’ve left the two cranes really, part of the heritage at
erm, Salford docks, don’t you think? EOS yes EOS you know, cos I mean,
EOS mm EOS most of it’s gone now hasn’t it? EOS yes, oh yes, I always
say when I go to The Lowry in Salford EOS mm EOS yeah EOS me Dad was
erm, he had to go on work of national importance in the war because he
was too old for the forces and he was meant to- was sent as a docker
EOS oh right EOS and the difference in his- his dress when he- he was
a docker and when he was a- in his- his own job, you know EOS yeah EOS
it’s unbelievable, and like, we always say, ‘ooh, he’d turn over in
his grave if he could see these docks now’ you know EOS yeah, yeah,
yeah, **anon** was amazed to see EOS mm EOS you know, he did live to
see all that erm, that change, you know, and EOS yes EOS erm EOS he
was quite pleased with how they’d- EOS yes EOS they’d changed it and-
EOS it is- I mean that is a- something- a bonus to Salford that EOS it
is really, isn’t it EOS and The Lowry EOS yeah, yeah EOS The Lowry,
yeah EOS and the way they’ve cleaned up the canal and EOS yes EOS
everywhere round there, Manchester, I think Manchester’s EOS well EOS
I don’t think that’s done any the better- for the better EOS no, I
don’t, EOS I think Manchester’s gone down- EOS I mean they are saying
that since the IRA bomb EOS yeah EOS it’s improved it, but I don’t
think it has EOS I don’t think so, no, no EOS no, no EOS Piccadilly
gardens, it used to be lovely EOS oh, that used to be gorgeous, yes
EOS we used to spend hours there in the garden EOS yeah EOS now it’s
just a EOS shambles EOS mess and a down-and-out’s place really isn’t
it EOS yep EOS I don’t- I don’t think Manchester’s got a lot to shout
about at the moment EOS no but erm- EOS what local events, news,
history do you think is important people know about EOS your town EOS
ooh EOS well I mean I don’t think EOS I mean there’s lots EOS I don’t
think they should forget the war EOS no EOS erm, I think the
youngsters want- when I say something to my children now they say,
‘you should write a book Mum’ you know EOS because of these incidents
during the war, you know EOS incidents and events, yeah, yeah, there
was a lot went on really EOS yes EOS and there’s a lotta well known
people EOS came from Salf- EOS cam from Salford and Manchester didn’t
they EOS yes, they did EOS I don’t think they’re remembered as they
erm, as they should be EOS mm, and- EOS but erm, and the whit walks
and things like that, you know, I mean, EOS oh yes, yes, and- EOS that
was EOS me Mother was, erm, if there was anything happening in
Salford, like I always remember when the Bish- the- one of the
Bishop’s died EOS mm EOS the Catholic Bishop’s died, and erm, of
course we had to go to St- erm, Salford Cathedral EOS mm EOS we only
stood outside the church, and there was meself and me brother that’s
two year older than me, and he was a very good-looking child, you know
and erm, somebody turned round and said to me Mother, ‘ooh, hasn’t he
got a saintly face’ EOS he wasn’t a saintly child mind you EOS of
course, when me Mother got home she said to me Father, EOS ‘somebody
say hasn’t, erm, **anon** got a saintly face’ so for ever- ever after
that, me Dad always just say, ‘where’s the saintly one’ EOS he was
known as the saintly one EOS the saintly one EOS yes, ‘til me Dad
died, yes, and erm- EOS did you move house at all when you were
younger? No, we never moved house at all, so, EOS oh I did, I’ve just
told you all about that haven’t I, EOS yeah, mm EOS sorry about that
love EOS no, it’s alright EOS didn’t know about that EOS what fun
things are there to do in your community? What, this community here
we’re in, now EOS yeah, either EOS mm EOS well, there’s quite a lot
we’re erm, always going on about things EOS well I- I do go to erm,
**anon** sports centre on a Wednesday to play table tennis, I’ve done
that for years, not that- I play at playing it, that’s the truth but
EOS erm EOS that one about- EOS we’ve EOS did you move house, what
memories do you have? We- well, when we went to live, erm, near Hope
Hospital we were- it was new property, and me Grandma had won the
Irish sweepstake, so she bought two houses see, EOS mmhmm EOS we moved
into one of them EOS and, at the end of the road where we lived there
was the stream EOS oh right EOS and I used to like fishing there for
tadpoles, and one day it was absolutely chucking it down, me Mother
said, ‘has she gone fishing again’, so she came and sorted me out you
see, and there’s me sat with me jam jar, and me little fishing net,
EOS and she said, ‘come on in, it’s too wet to be sat here’ but I was
enjoying meself, you know EOS mm EOS so I had to go in, I think she
was frightened of me getting pneumonia or something EOS mm yeah we
have quite a- a few things really EOS yes EOS that we’re involved in
aren’t we EOS yes EOS we have events at church, don’t we? EOS yeah and
then we go to the **anon** Theatre in- EOS and we go to the **anon**
Theatre regularly EOS yes EOS and we go to The Lowry EOS yeah EOS
theatre, don’t we? EOS yes EOS regularly, erm, we support Macmillan,
there events at erm, Trafford General EOS at Trafford EOS don’t we?
EOS yes EOS erm, you have a group that you go to EOS yep EOS and erm,
EOS I go to a- a little theatre in **anon** that’s been going for
years, I go there regularly with erm, with some friends what else have
we got erm it’s a shame our local, erm, just in this- off the square
here, EOS erm, just on the square EOS **anon**, that has closed now
for el- older people, EOS for the evening bit EOS oh EOS erm we used
to go there on a Thursday, didn’t we EOS we used to go on a Thursday,
yes we did EOS and that was really good EOS yes EOS but erm, the cost
of hire of the room and everything, it’s erm, they’ve had to shut down
after, what was it, fifty years EOS yes EOS fifty years they’ve been
going EOS woah EOS so it’s a shame, really, EOS so a lot of the old
people were really upset about that EOS mm EOS have you lived anywhere
else other than the town, city where you live now? I lived not far
away from here, I’ve only been here for three years, I did live erm,
from Wythenshawe I went to- when I first married I went and lived in
Cheadle EOS oh did you, ooh you were posh then weren’t you EOS mm,
with me first husband, yes I was quite posh, I went and lived there,
erm, but that marriage, erm, failed- oh I lived in, when I was
nursing, I lived at erm, Bowden at, do you remember d- EOS ooh EOS
ooh, I tell you, you see, it’s coming out she say- she’s quite posh
really, on the quiet you see- EOS yeah, yeah, yeah, do you remember
**anon** Hospital? EOS who? EOS **anon** Hospital EOS oh, I’ve heard
of it EOS in Bowden EOS it’s, yes, it was EOS it’s a- it was a n- like
a nursing home EOS mm EOS you went from **anon** EOS yes EOS you could
go into **anon** to recoup EOS yes EOS and I- I went- I lived there, I
w- I was there when it was the Queen’s coronation, cos I wanted to
watch it on the- EOS on the television EOS they had a television
there, and we didn’t have one, and I wanted to watch it but the matron
decided that would be my first night on nights, so I had to go to bed
that day, so I couldn’t see the coronation EOS see EOS had to wait, to
go home, and watch it on me Mother’s friends, erm EOS yeah EOS you
know, erm EOS I was working when that EOS were you EOS the- and why we
didn’t close I don’t know EOS oh right EOS cause now they close things
like that don’t they EOS yeah, yeah EOS yeah, at the Royal wedding
they did EOS yes, erm EOS yeah, but erm, so I live- I lived there for
a go- and then erm, then of course I- I married- I married **anon** in
nineteen-sixty, we lived in Wythenshawe with me Mum for a while, and
then we got the house just in **anon** EOS **anon** EOS you know,
watched that being built and- and moved there and then three years ago
I came here so EOS and that’s what happened to me, we moved to
**anon** so it’s just round the corner from Katrina **anon** EOS oh,
okay, near **anon** EOS mm, yeah EOS and then erm, we- I moved here
the month after Katrina **anon** EOS mm, that’s right, yeah EOS yes
EOS what are local people like? Very nice EOS yes they are EOS yeah,
yeah EOS friendly EOS yeah, yes, we can’t say anything other than that
really can we EOS no, no- EOS no, I suppose we’re fortunate in having
a good group of people really aren’t we EOS mm especially around, you
know, in this square EOS especially in th- in this square, yeah EOS mm
EOS but when I- I walk a lot to Urmston EOS going up Moorside road,
there’s all sorts of people say, ‘morning’, you know EOS yeah EOS yeah
EOS yes they do, yeah EOS they do, they’re very friendly EOS yeah EOS
yes EOS yeah, we find that really EOS yes, I think we’ve answered all
those haven’t we EOS yeah, I think we have EOS erm, I could-