 one, two, three EOS one, two, three EOS perfect, when you’re ready
EOS erm, I already know the answer to this question, but how many
brothers and sisters have you got EOS erm, two sisters, one brother
EOS yeah, well, Mum got with a new step-dad didn’t she, and after
about a month or so she was pregnant so EOS but **anon**, she’s four
EOS four now, bloody hell, that’s been a long time EOS think she’s
four EOS since erm, when we was in Scouts wasn’t it? EOS yeah it was,
when was that? About eight years ago? EOS God, I can’t even remember,
was it longer than that? was back in two thousand four? EOS at the
latest EOS was you in Salford Scouts or was it just explorers? Was in
Salford Scouts as well? EOS yeah, yeah, well hundredth Salford wasn’t
it EOS hundredth, ah, you were the enemy EOS was you? so what’ve you
got, you’ve got **anon** EOS **anon**, **anon**, and **anon** EOS how
old’s- how old’s **anon** now? EOS he’s four years younger than me, so
he’s EOS I remember him when he was about, like EOS oh no, is it
nineteen, might- it’s nineteen, sorry EOS I remember him when he was
God, how old was he, about eleven or something like that EOS don’t
even see him anymore, he’s w- he’s like a bit emo, he’s EOS is he? Is
he? EOS big hole in his ear, his hair’s a mess EOS he looks like a
skunk actually cos he’s dyed the ends blonde at some EOS what, off
power rangers EOS power rangers? oh dear EOS erm actually, I think I
seen your Granddad actually when I was doing erm, when I was on the
cavity wall insulation EOS yeah, I think you said you went to try and
sell it off EOS yeah, I like I knocked on his hou- I knocked on- I
knocked his house and erm I sa- I saw him go in the house so I went,
‘oh, there’s Lewis’ **anon** Grandad’ EOS went to knock on the house
EOS no answer he just- EOS probably saw you down the street, ‘oh, he’s
trying to sell me summet’ EOS yeah, just- just ignoring me EOS ahh
don’t know how many brothers and sisters you got, I think, EOS I’ve
got one brother, one sister EOS I didn’t know you had- oh yeah, I did
I knew you had a brother, he’s a younger brother isn’t he? EOS your
sister older than you? EOS me sister’s erm, sister’s seventeen EOS
**anon** erm, **anon**- he’s nearly twenty one now EOS yeah, he’s
going aw- he’s going on holiday for his birthday and erm EOS oh,
where’s he going? EOS he’s going to erm, is it Cos EOS yeah, but he
failed to invite me so EOS that was a bit cheeky wasn’t it? EOS what,
he’s just invited his mates? EOS yeah, just going with all his mates
cos he’s- he’s good mates with erm, you know everyone that we work
with at **anon** EOS erm, so he’s going with a lot of them, all of his
mates from- from erm from when he was a, you know, doing his
bricklaying EOS and stuff like that, so EOS is he still doing that?
EOS no, he’s just doing- he’s working at **anon** with us, isn’t he
EOS oh right, okay EOS erm, doing a bit of- he works more in the
kitchen and does a bit of driving work as well, you know like a little
bit of a EOS like assistant chef yeah EOS so he’s not doing bad, but
he said he wants to get back into the erm, to the building but erm,
the last- the last guy that he worked for was an absolute arsehole EOS
and erm, so he’s just put him off, you know, like the guy lived in, up
Bolton way EOS and he used to have to be at this guys house for about
erm, used to have to be there for half six in the morning EOS Jee-
yeah, I remember you saying that EOS and this was before- this was
before he could drive EOS he had to get the train or something EOS so
he had to like, get the bus at like half five in the morning, and you
know, if he was late, the guy wouldn’t wait for him so EOS I think he
just kind of thought ‘sack that, I’m not- I don’t wanna be working in
the bricklaying anymore’ sorta thing, but, but I’ve been trying to
tell him, you know, he needs to get back into it cos he can’t EOS stay
at **anon** ‘til forever and ever more, the longer you’re out of EOS
yeah, you’ll it won’t you EOS the harder it’ll be to get back into it
EOS well he’s had his like, first job, so that’s the hardest bit isn’t
EOS when- then you can get references EOS whereas our **anon** useless
EOS he hasn’t had a job yet he’s- well, he said he’s applied he d- he
dropped out of college EOS what college was he at? EOS he w- he w- he
was at **anon** and then he dropped out of that and I think he applied
for **anon** EOS and I don’t think he went for the first day EOS and
then just, didn’t go EOS what was he doing at- at **anon**? EOS erm,
he was doing Computing, he was doing, is it Cisco, is that what you
were doing? EOS yeah, I think he was doing that, but he said the- the
teachers are EOS nah, yeah, it was basically- all it was, was erm,
online modules sorta- sorta thing EOS so we just used to sit there in
front of a computer for an hour just reading through these, you know,
all these modules EOS yeah, and then just doing the test EOS and then,
like, yeah, and then at the end of each module you have to have a test
and there was no sort of like teaching involved in it, there was like,
it was just, you know, you just sit there and read it, I think the
only thing we did erm, you know, practical stuff, cos it was all to do
with networking and computers and stuff like that, we learnt how to,
you know like y- when you get your Ethernet cables? EOS we learnt how
to make them EOS oh right, that’s alright EOS and we learnt to strip a
computer down, and then put it back together, they were the only
things we did for the whole two years EOS so, there’s no wonder I did-
I didn’t erm, I didn’t pass it, cos when, you like, you’d complete all
your modules and then at the end of it you have to take a EOS you
know, like a test covering all the modules EOS so, and then if you
fail that test you have to pay for it to do it EOS oh my God EOS so I
failed it and I thought, ‘no’ EOS ‘I’m not even bothering’ EOS ‘I’m
not- I’m not even going back’ but you have- it’s like something like
sixty pound a go EOS and you know, back when I was working on four
pound an hour in- in EOS sixty pound was quite a bit of money EOS how
did you do in your Electronics? EOS erm, Electronics in the end, I
come out with erm, a D EOS so, better than nothing isn’t it EOS erm,
Music Technology, I only- I scrapped that after the first year EOS
yeah, cos you pick four four equivalent A-levels don’t you, and then
drop one or something EOS well no, basically I dropped it because it
was, EOS just- I just didn’t like the tutors at all, like you know at-
when I was in school I was into all me drums and stuff EOS and I like
loved music, but then as soon as I got to college just, I don’t know
what- I don’t know what, but it’s just changed my, like erm, opinion
of erm, you know, trying to be a a musician sort of thing EOS oh,
that’s a shame EOS I don’t regret it really though I was just too lazy
to EOS who’s your favourite high- high school teacher then? EOS
favourite high school teacher? EOS don’t think I had one EOS I don’t-
I don’t- I don’t think I had- I don’t think many people- probably
**anon** to be honest you know with Music EOS I- I rarely had him
though, I had, what’s the other one called, I think she was called
**anon** or something but EOS I don’t remember her EOS she- I think
she was only there for like a year EOS yeah, I know but cos- cos he
was a drummer as well, you know, he like really encouraged me and and
erm, you know, he used to help me out wherever he could EOS yeah I
still see him about cos he works for Salford Council now EOS you know
for Ma- for Mapas, Music and Performing Arts of Salford or something
like that, erm, so I- I see him about, you know when I’m dropping
stuff off at different places EOS so I still speak to him now and
again he was erm, decent do you- what was the worst thing you ever got
into trouble for EOS it probably wasn’t the worst thing but he really
annoyed me, he was erm in RE he was our RE teacher, I can’t remember
if it was a woman she was- EOS she was horrible, but EOS it was one of
them subjects that you just don’t pay attention to EOS yeah, she
complained at me for me handwriting at some- at one week or something,
and then the next week she gave me detention cos me handwriting was
still bad and I’m like EOS ahh, the worst- I got in trouble for a
couple of things, when we was in erm, year seven erm, I thought I’d be
a bit with erm, EOS thought I’d be a little bit of erm, mischievous
erm and then me and **anon**, me and **anon** and **anon** used to all
mess about in erm, in Science class, this was year ten, year ten or
eleven EOS we always used to mess about in Science and erm, basically
you know along the Science benches EOS used to get like the wooden
bits along the front, and **anon** snapped EOS so of course, you heard
this like big cracking sound EOS teacher looks across to us all and
we’re all there, like rolling our EOS and the next- so he turns back,
carries on with what- what he’s doing and the next thing you know,
I’ve got this piece of wood in me hand and **anon** just head-butts it
EOS like, snaps it in half, and then the teacher looks round again,
and I’m sat there with like two pi- two pieces of wood in my hand EOS
and erm, we both got te- detention for that and erm, you EOS yeah, oh,
**anon** EOS we- yeah, we- we were in erm, doing detention and he- and
he comes in and he goes, ‘surprised to see you here lads, wh- what you
in here for?’ and, you know what **anon** like, he just like burst out
laughing, and I’m just sat there dead straight faced and he just went,
‘smashed a piece of wood over his head’ EOS like that it’s what it is-
but that was one of worst things I ever got in de- in trouble for I
reckon so are your Mum and Dad from Salford? From Manchester area? EOS
erm my Mum grew up where my Gran and Granddad are now EOS are they in
**anon** still, in **anon** EOS in, **anon** yeah, erm, my Dad grew up
in **anon** EOS right, still Manchester area EOS yeah, but **anon**,
stepdad, I think his Mum’s part Prussian- Persian- EOS is it East
German or summet? EOS or, on the edge of something and then he lives-
he lived in Wales, and in Liverpool EOS and then he moved over here so
he’s got the weirdest accent EOS it’s like, he doesn’t- he went to the
chippy and I was like, ‘ah, get us a chip barm’, he went, ‘what’s a
chip barm?’, ‘like, you know, barm, with chips in it’ EOS he was like,
‘don’t have a clue what you’re on about’ EOS I showed it him, and he
went, ‘oh, that’s a chip batch’ EOS a chip batch? EOS like, what’s a
batch? EOS ah, people from other places, they call it weird things
don’t they EOS it’s like, you know like I’ve got family that live in,
in erm, in EOS they- they erm, they’re baffled by, literally, you know
like Peter Kay says it on- on his thingy, but they are baffled by like
chips and EOS they just don’t have it like, my- my Aunty who’s from up
here, EOS she has it all the time but like, the kids they don’t eat
it, I love chips and gravy EOS yeah, it’s the best meal EOS and every
time you go down and you’re like, you know, if you go to the chippy,
‘can I have chips and gravy’ they’ll just give you like, a portion of
chips and a portion of gravy, they won’t give it you together, if- if
you want to eat it now EOS really? That’s well weird, ah where’s your
favourite chippy? EOS I can only think of two there’s **anon** or
**anon** EOS the salt and pepper chips they’re nice EOS but the one
on, you know on the **anon**, what’s it called now, it’s a Chinese
chippy on erm, you know on the **anon**? EOS yeah used to go there
school EOS yeah, the one right at the end EOS yeah, I can’t remember
what it’s called now, not been there for a while but that’s nice as
well what was your erm, what was your first job after leaving school?
EOS I worked in Costa Coffee EOS oh you did, didn’t you? EOS working
with **anon** and that EOS nah, it wasn’t with **anon**- EOS you
worked in Trafford Centre didn’t you? EOS yeah, I was at the Trafford
Centre one EOS God, I forgot about that EOS cos that, well, it’s like,
went up to the manager and it’s like, ‘oh, I was thinking like, I want
a job, erm, can I have an interview or something’ he’s like EOS ‘oh
yeah, just come down’, cos like I didn’t have to give my CV in or EOS
I went down, and he- he- he just went, ‘do you know what, I like you’
EOS he’s like, ‘you can have a job’ turned out he was a raving nutter,
but EOS he, yeah, he didn’t hire anybody else on and then he had a
like a mental breakdown or something, so there’s like, only six of us
who work there, like I think the hours were something like eight ‘til
ten everyday, and then he left, and it was just like us fending EOS it
was horrendous EOS that in the Trafford Centre, yeah? EOS bloody hell,
I remember my- my first job working in- in Trafford, I went to you
know when the job- when the job centre used to behin- be behind the
big screen EOS do you remember when it used to be there? EOS I went in
there, you know, like looking for jobs and- and the guy that- that was
erm running it, sort of thing he said, ‘yeah, they’ve got this one in
BHS here’ erm, you know, ‘fill out this application form’, so I filled
it out EOS and he said that there’s supposed to be a questionnaire to
go with it EOS you know that, you know, to see what your opinions are
on stuff, he said, ‘we’ve not got an- any in at the moment but erm,
when it comes in I’ll fill it out for you and hand it in’ EOS and
then, so I- I- I ended up erm getting- going- going for the interview
erm, getting the job EOS I don’t- I don’t remem- I don’t remember if
I’ve told you this but you know when you go for your induction sort of
thing EOS erm, there was- there was about eight or ten of us sat round
this big table, and it was near- near the Christmas erm, period when I
EOS so they had some of the things that they used to sell on Christmas
EOS and erm, no word of a lie, they had a vibrator on the table EOS so
we were all sat there going ‘what kind of, erm, company have we come
to work for here?’ EOS was it a Christmassy one? EOS yeah, the- I
don’t- I can’t- I honestly can’t remember EOS but- and when like, the
Christmas shop came in they used to sell like, you know, like adult
stuff like that, like flavoured EOS condoms and everything like that,
which was kind of weird, when EOS sixteen and you’re like EOS I don’t
think I applied to work in Ann Summers EOS what was your favourite
subject, like, of all time, apart from Music EOS apart from Music? God
I loved History when I was at school EOS oh, we had- what’s he called,
that teacher, the ginger one? EOS oh, he was quality EOS yeah, he was-
he was a good History tea- and we had erm, what was the other one
called as well? The one that really pale with black hair, EOS ahh, no-
no I’m thinking of a man I think he was the EOS **anon** or something,
no- he was Science wasn’t he EOS **anon**, yeah, and EOS I don’t know
who she was EOS what was she called, **anon**, was that the one? And
she got married EOS I remember the name, but I don’t think I ever had
her EOS yeah, yeah, she wasn’t bad either but yeah I used to love erm,
History and History and Music was about it really, everything else I
just used to loathe EOS what about you? EOS oh, I like, I liked the
Sciencey ones but I didn’t like the teachers EOS yeah, Science was
okay but EOS and I didn’t like Maths either, was like, really geeky in
it EOS I didn’t like Maths, we had erm, is it **anon** EOS oh, she was
horrendous EOS we had **anon** at first, and she just used to shout at
me for just being in me bag all the time EOS it’s just, like- it
wasn’t in it, I just had it open, I was asleep on the desk with me
head in it EOS but yeah, **anon** and erm, cos me and **anon** used to
sit next to each other EOS I can imagine EOS so and it was, you know,
right near the back of the class so we were always up to no good EOS
and yeah, just, so she just used to- she never used to like us I don’t
think so that didn’t make it any better but yeah, Science, I reckon
cos it was a pretty run down school by the- by the time we was there
EOS it was shocking, wasn’t it? EOS so they never used to have any
Science equipment L; they had Bunsen burners, that was it, EOS Bunsen
bur- Bunsen burners EOS but we were banned from them, cos we always
used to set things on EOS and the clay mats that were all like
superglued back together EOS cause people had been smashing them EOS
so yeah what else, what else, what else, what else, can you remember
any good stories that your grandparents or your parents used to tell
you? EOS no, they’re all crap EOS they just tell you rubbish, don’t
they, like if I start talking to my Gran she’ll- she just won’t shut
up EOS she’ll just carry on, she’ll get slightly on a tangent, and
then she’ll move straight onto it, and then- EOS I think a lot of
Gran’s are like that aren’t they EOS go in a circle well EOS cause my-
my Gran, cos she lives down in Southend with my Aunty and erm, so she-
all the time she’s on the phone to me Mum and me Mum’s sat there like
that you know, trying to get off the phone cos she’s just going on,
and on, and on EOS it’s really hard as well isn’t it, cos they don’t
give you a break EOS I know you c- you can’t tell them- you can’t tell
them to you know, you don’t know what to EOS ‘hanging up now, bye’ EOS
yeah, ‘I’ve got to go now’, ‘just a minute, just a minute’ EOS ‘just
let me tell you this’ EOS ‘me kitchen’s on fire, can I go?’, ‘no’ EOS
yeah she phoned up the other night, you know when all these riots were
on, on the precinct EOS she phoned up to see if me Dad was working but
erm, he wasn’t thankfully, he answered the phone going, ‘hold on a
minute, hold on a minute, erm, I’m just beating these muggers off from
the door’ EOS she’s dead- she’s dead- EOS he’s a firefighter your Dad
isn’t he? EOS yeah, fireman, yeah I always remember random stories he
used to tell me when- when I was a kid but the one that sticks out
most is just like when, he’s got a picture of it actually, w- him and
one of his, erm, the lads that he first started working with, erm
like, this building’s on fire and there’s just got a picture of them
ru- both running away from this bi- w- brick wall that’s collapsing
EOS that was pretty- pretty cool erm, picture and story to go with it
EOS my Mum’s just a bit of a looser, eh, you know her don’t you? EOS
do you see her that often with your job now cos, before when you were
first doing in you her saw quite a lot when she worked on **anon**
didn’t you cos you did some of the- EOS y- yeah, erm, EOS I’ve not
seen her for a while actually, erm, you know, cos with all the council
cuts EOS well, everything’s been scaled back, I mean, when I first
started doing the driving erm, you know, we used to be really busy
everyday, you know, like with like ten or twelve jobs to do everyday,
but now, we’re down to about two or three EOS you know, on a good day
you’ll be like, you’ll have like one big job for like eighty people
and that’s considered a busy day now EOS whereas like, back when we
first started you know, used to do like six jobs for twenty people, so
so it has- it has erm, you know, been scaled back a lot with all the
cuts so it’s kind of erm, no, I don’t see- I don’t see- I’ve not seen
her for a while I don’t think- she’s not been to- up to **anon** for a
while I don’t- EOS yeah, well, she used to work at **anon** but then
she moved to **anon** round the corner so I’m not sure they do the
same sort of thing EOS right what d- what- yeah, what like, what years
does she teach sort of thing EOS she’s early so it’s nursery mainly
EOS but sometimes she does a bit of reception EOS yeah, my Mum teaches
erm, like reception she just erm, their school’s just been closed down
and th- you know, they’ve got a EOS erm, what’s it called, ‘**anon**’
or something like that EOS oh, yeah, that’s where **anon** goes EOS
no, not **anon** erm, EOS it’s- that’s what Seedy **anon** went to,
wasn’t it EOS it’s called, erm, it’s down by the river believe it or
not EOS erm, so yeah, th- do you know the school where she worked EOS
it’s like, hundred and fifteen years old or something like that EOS
and it is like, falling apart EOS you know, you so it’s about time
they got a new one, I think they’re, you know, merging a couple of
schools EOS like they did- EOS they’re doing that everywhere aren’t
they? EOS yeah, like they did with ours when EOS I think it’s
horrendous EOS was it- was it **anon** that closed wasn’t it, EOS and
they merged- EOS some dodgy Broughton people living here EOS merged
some of ours and some with- with **anon** bad times, when they- all
the scrotes come EOS did you ever- ever get hurt when you was playing
as a kid? EOS ever get hurt? No, I- I’ve never broke a bone in my body
EOS yeah erm, the worst thing that’s ever happened, and it sounds
really naff, is erm, just pushing my, you know, like a push bike EOS
along, and erm, for some reason this- this lad that used to live round
the corner, erm, he come up and he was just- just messing about like,
just like kicked the back tyre, sort of thing, and you know the- the
cogs where your chain goes EOS like, dug right into my leg so, got a
big- big scar on my leg where that was from EOS I had to go hospital
and have stitches for that, that was about the worst thing that ever-
ever happened to me EOS ahh we had erm, the old Scouts, some of them
were like messing around in our house EOS cos like, legged it to the
back door to like try and lock them out, just messing about, and I ran
past the ironing board and kicked the leg of it EOS and broke me toe
EOS that was probably the worst I did, erm, I fell out a tree at one
point and cracked me elbow like, cracked the bone in it EOS ah, but, I
wasn’t that bad cos- EOS no, I don’t think- EOS you don’t really use
it much EOS I think I’ve had a couple of burns and stuff when I was a
kid but nothing nothing worth speaking about really, just the EOS scar
on my leg from an idiot down the street EOS erm, whereabouts did you
used to play when you- when you were a EOS erm, well we used to live
in **anon**- EOS yeah, erm, so there was erm, just some like- where
all the houses go round, there was like a little patch in the middle
which was just like, gravel EOS used to play in there a lot but it’s
just- it was just full of crap, like, what- bits of broken wood with
nails in it, used to go back with EOS bit of wood with a nail in your
foot EOS my brother’s done that Mum was like, ‘oh, gotta take you to
hospital for a tetanus’ and all this EOS get over it Mum, EOS just
wipe it up with an alcohol free wipe EOS but we used to have erm,
where I used to live on erm, do you remember the **anon** Church on
the- on the- on the high- EOS it was like a really old old church,
like, pretty big church EOS and we used to play on the grounds there
but then they knocked it all down and built houses over it erm, with
like a- just a smaller church to the side and we used to just like,
used to have like, you know like the massive fences along, erm EOS so-
but we dug like a little hole so we could s- like slide under the-
under the fence EOS and we built a little tree house in the- in the
corner EOS ahh, that’s well cool EOS and erm, we used to get the vicar
coming out, you know, like, shouting at us, going, ‘get off’ and, you
know, private land EOS and obviously, playing in- never went down to
Buille Hill Park really, but like, Oaks Park EOS yeah, Lightoaks is a
lot nicer isn’t it? EOS it’s got its little pond in it EOS yeah, but
erm, I remem- I remember learning to ride my bike in- in Buille Hill
park though EOS oh, I remember that, yeah, my Granddad used to go-
round the park with us, and you used to have your stabilisers on EOS
tried it with stabilisers and now I couldn’t do it, EOS but, like, I
was like, ‘I really want to ride it without the stabilisers’ but every
time he tried I just fell off, and then one day, one of the
stabilisers fell off EOS like, on its own accord, I was like, ‘fine’,
so, he took the other one off I thought it was pretty good EOS really?
I remember when my Dad who’s like, you know, like running along
behind, holding the seat so I wouldn’t wobble, and then EOS I just
remember going, ‘w- why am I wobbling so much g- get hold of the
seat’, and tu- turned around an me Dad was like EOS a- miles away, I’d
been riding the bike and I didn’t- you know, didn’t even know that’s
the first time I remember EOS if you could talk to your young self now
you could say, ‘centrifugal inertia, and you can pedal faster and
you’ll be alright’ EOS yeah ahh, they talk about that word all the
time don’t EOS it’s true though like when- like on me bike when I’m
going round corners, you know, or j- or like you’re trying to do a u-
turn, the faster y- you, obviously not like twenty mile an hour but,
EOS the faster you’re going, then it- the easier it is to manoeuvre it
EOS did you ever do any extra extra activities at erm, in school or
college when we used to have to do erm, EOS what was it called now?
EOS I did circus skills with **anon** EOS circus skills with- EOS I
did a bit of that EOS what did I do? I think I used to do something
with music, you know erm, learning to play another instrument, I
started to learn how to play guitar but you know, drums was the way
forward for me, thought, ‘chords, what are these?’ EOS didn’t have a
clue EOS I did do boules at erm, High School EOS oh yeah, I remember
**anon**- was it **anon** EOS yeah, he was a right weirdo EOS he u- he
used to teach that didn’t he EOS yeah, was pretty good actually,
enjoyed that EOS I was rubbish at it EOS I don’t think I ever used to
do anything in- in a High School EOS there wasn’t really much to do
was there EOS no, I used to play a lit- little bit of rugby but I
never stuck at it really EOS you know, cos my Dad used to play, my Dad
used to play for erm, Salford Reds Juniors EOS and he erm, did like
tours in France and Germany and all that when they were- when he was
like, when he was like nineteen, twenty erm, he did like you know,
like tours in France and stuff, and I remember him always telling me
about the coach got erm, you know, got EOS and erm, him and one of his
mates decided to stay in France with him EOS you know, while he got
better EOS so they just had a hol- they just had like a EOS think it
was like a three or four week holiday just messing about, something
like that EOS that’s well good what do you think of the local people
in your EOS what, in Salford? EOS well, after erm, was it Tuesdays EOS
erm, incidents, not a lot really EOS it was just a small minority of
it, spoiling it for people wasn’t it? EOS was anything bad near you?
EOS I live- I live fairly near to the Salford precinct where it was-
EOS all taking place, you could see, there was a couple of cars on f-
that they’d burnt out, think it was like the Manchester Radio car EOS
erm, then they’d, you know like, tipped it over and burnt it out, you
could see the smoke for miles erm, and my girlfriend, she’s EOS so we-
so we had to go for a drive round didn’t we EOS so we went for a li-
for a little drive round and you know, like all the roads to the
precinct there’s just like, lines of li- riot police EOS erm, and they
all looked knackered EOS they’d been stood there for ages EOS you
know, without a break, felt sorry for them, one of my Mum’s friends
erm, he works erm, you know, training and co-ordinating the riot
police EOS so he was- he was like up for like forty-eight hours
straight or something daft like that EOS it was erm- it was all
madness wasn’t it though, but I think there’s erm, like I say, just a
lot of people spoiling it for the majority, a lot of people in Salford
are decent people EOS erm, just erm, what was it- cos I was watching
erm is it Question Time with young voters last night and erm, it was
saying that, you know, there’s a lot of erm EOS you know, it’s not
just people you know, being idiots, there is a lot of underlying
problems that they think is the cause EOS there are broken families
and all this erm, did you hear what H- Hazel Blears said? In h- EOS
ahh, I was listening on the radio, I wanted to turn it off she just-
EOS in erm, was it in the houses of parliament where she said erm, you
know, ‘why aren’t- why aren’t your kids in school’ and it’s like, it’s
the summer holidays EOS ahh, but erm, watching- watching the news as
well with- I’m sure the- the news people just go around and find the
most stupid people to talk EOS I know, they do EOS the stupidest
people to talk to and, you know, give interviews to and, you know, you
can see why half of them haven’t got jobs EOS the way- the way they
talk and act EOS there was one that I was listening to and he- he’s
like this black guy and he- he was like, ‘so, why are you rioting’,
and he went, ‘oh, it’s just the police, I hate the police, cos they-
they hate us, they can’t stand the colour of our skin, we’re like,
black and Asian and they don’t even care about their own colour skin’,
EOS it’s like, they’re not being racist then are they, they’re just,
EOS like you, plad EOS they’re just- they’re just stupid aren’t they
see that guy that was in Manchester city centre with his erm, with his
t-shirt pulled up over his face and his- and his sunglasses on, and he
was like, ‘the police can’t touch us today can they it’s free reign’
thought, ‘oh’ I was just watching it and I was EOS what’s the point
EOS what are they- what do they think they’re gonna achieve, you know,
if they wanted to vent their anger I’m sure they would find better
ways than erm, smashing up their own communities did you hear erm, TJ
Hughes on the precinct, the- they’ve closed it down now EOS have they,
oh EOS because erm, you know cos it got that badly damaged in the
riots EOS erm, they just decided that they can’t afford to erm, you
know, repair it all, so they’ve just closed it down, so they’re just
ruining prospects for people in their own community really aren’t
they? EOS you know, that’s about, how many people do you reckon are
working there, fifteen, twenty people, that’ve just lost their jobs
EOS they now are jobless, yeah EOS so they’re just adding to their own
problems and- they just don’t think about it do they EOS it’s erm,
it’s all stupid I d- I don’t see why they were rioting anyway, I think
they were just EOS just any excuse for them EOS copy- copy cat riots
from, you know, cos I think in London it was all to do with that guy
getting shot wasn’t it EOS erm, but up here, they j- they had no
reason at all did they really, EOS they were just copying it, getting
away with it cos th- you know, because they could get away with it so
but erm, watching a few erm, videos you know, that have been posted on
youtube of people getting arrested EOS and erm, what do you reckon-
what do you reckon about erm, you know, if people do get convicted
then they should loose their EOS I reckon that’s quality, and loose
their house, everything EOS that’s a good idea EOS at- see I- at first
I- I thought that, you know, yeah, cos they shouldn’t have been
involved in the riots and why should the tax payer have to, you know,
pay for the clean up EOS pay for all the damage, yeah EOS and pay for
them who have caused the mess EOS but then I was watching when I was
watching the- that programme last night and it was saying, you know,
erm, is it not EOS gonna cos more problems cos these people that are
already on low incomes or no incomes have got, you know, nowhere to
go, so are they not just gonna start causing more trouble than all
this EOS so, there’s a bit of a argument for both sides of it really
isn’t EOS deport them, yeah L; yeah, send them all somewhere else EOS
just make them live on a small island EOS or Australia, like back in
the day EOS did you see that about the- was it that e-petitions where
they’re trying to get erm, you know, the death sentence brought back
sort of thing EOS aren’t they all mad aren’t they? EOS well, I think
it’d be quite good cos it’ll get like- jail’s like blocked up anyway
EOS if you get one’s that are stuck there for life anyway, what’s the
point in them being around EOS that’s very true very true erm I don’t
think it’ll deter anybody though cos, you can imagine, in America they
still have high crime rates, it doesn’t really deter anybody does it
EOS no, I suppose not EOS with- with criminals it’s erm, when they’re
committing acts of, EOS erm, they don’t really think about the
consequences do they, EOS they don’t think, ‘oh, I’m gonna get banged
up for twenty years for smuggling ten pound- ten million pounds worth
of class A’ or whatever they just want to do it because they’re greedy
aren’t they, or- EOS yeah, but if they do get rid of them then we’re
not paying to house them in jails as well, so it’ll make it cheaper
for us EOS should bring back the cane in schools, and let police beat
everyone up it’ll be great EOS that’s another one of the topics that
was on that programme last night, he was saying that, you know, how
can you expect these, you know, these kids, to respect the police
when- EOS they can’t- the police can’t do anything EOS they don’t even
respect- they don’t even respect their own Mums’ and EOS and you’re
taking the powers away from the- from the Mums’ and Dads’ to, you
know, enforce that respect, because you know, even smacking a child is
frowned upon and EOS stuff isn’t it, you were saying that- EOS can’t
shout at anyone without ending up in prison EOS yeah, yeah, too erm,
too P-C, politically correct, isn’t it, you know it’s all- EOS it’s
human rights and all that crap EOS bollocks in my opinion EOS never
did me any harm EOS no, it’s good EOS get- getting a smack round the
back of the legs EOS oh, I always thought back of the head was worse
EOS no, no, trust me, the back of the legs was worse you know,
especially coming from my Dad EOS I can imagine EOS he’s massive isn’t
he? EOS that was erm, fun times when I was a kid, well I d- I don’t
get people that, you know, it’s never aff- it’s never affected me in-
in any way, any- anybody that I know that got you know, a clip round
the ear once in a while EOS you know, it’s not affected them in you
know, like, adversely sort of- sort of way has it, you know EOS I
suppose they’re trying to protect people who are constantly abused EOS
if they’re gonna be constantly abused then they’re just gonna be
constantly- like, putting a rule in saying ‘you can’t hit your kids’
isn’t gonna stop them EOS yeah, there should be- I think they need to
look at it don’t they change the rules EOS so have you- I don’t know
what erm- what ways did you have to help around- EOS help around the
house when you used to live at home with your Mam? EOS erm, I dunno,
my Mum was more of a slob than us, so it wasn’t too bad, but you know
what my Mum’s like, she’s she only did like, the pots and the tea
every now and again, EOS it didn’t really matter to be honest, we were
more we all did our bit and that EOS you have to do anything? EOS used
to- used to be like a fight in our house every weekend, you know, like
me Mum dragging us out of bed at like ten o’clock on a Saturday
morning when you just wanna sleep EOS cos you’ve been up like playing
on your Xbox or whatever, ‘til like three in the morning EOS she’s
dragging us out of bed going, erm, trying to get us, you know, to tidy
up different things like, you can wash the pots from last night and
she used to make us like al- hoover all the- hoover all the- all the
stairs and landing and clean the bathroom and stuff like that EOS ah,
my Mum was pretty cool with all that, I think she did most of it EOS
think she just erm, made us clean our rooms, and any mess that we left
out she, like, we cleaned that up EOS but she did the rest EOS she w-
the funniest I look back on it now and I- I- I l- laugh on it, but
when- when we were kids, like cos me and my brother used to have to
share a room, erm, if that you know, became, messer, and me Dad used
to warn us, like two, or three times you know, saying, you know, ‘tidy
your room up’ EOS and then if we didn’t do it, you know, just go, ‘oh
you know, we’ll just leave it, do it another time’, erm, we’d come
home from school one day and he would like have ripped everything out
of the wardrobes, all the toy boxes would be emptied EOS you know,
just everything in a big pile in the middle of the floor and he’d just
go EOS ‘sort it out’ EOS ‘sort it out now’ y- you know, ‘you’re not
going out until you’ve tidied your room’ so we used to have to sit
there for like you know, three hours, just EOS that’s quite good that
EOS tidying the room, and then it used to be spotless for about two
months, but then it used to get back to the same thing EOS that’s why-
but my room now you know, it’s always spotless so I think that’s been
drilled into me, you know EOS mine would be if **anon** wasn’t in it
all the time EOS she’s so messy EOS every time **anon** comes ro- eve-
every time **anon** comes round to ours, you know, it just- it’ll be,
you know, there’ll be a few clothes you know, on the back of the chair
or whatever, but she’ll just like, throw her bag on the floor, her
shoes and everything and EOS ah, it annoys me you know, just spent
half an hour cleaning up and then you come round and erm, mess
everything up EOS yeah, I live at me own in **anon** at the moment,
and it’s just bliss, it’s just like, nobody makes a mess EOS and then,
if I make a mess I clean it up like pretty much straight away anyway
so EOS that’d be ace erm EOS I do miss **anon** like but she comes
round and visits me, and I’m round here more than anything, I think
EOS yeah at least you’ve got her your car, how’s your car EOS yeah,
it’s alright, you can- like, it looks like there’s a really, really
clean patch just on this wheel arch where I managed to scrape it up
the wall EOS and it’s just got a different coloured paint on at the
moment EOS oh it’s only like a little scratch, but, yeah, it’s alright
EOS I’ve had a erm, just had me car insurance EOS but I pay it in one
EOS it was well, the renewal price was one, six then erm, I changed to
Admiral for like an ultra low mileage EOS so, and then it got it down
to one, four, and then I put **anon** on it, and it went- knocked it
down to one three I was like EOS that’s weird isn’t it? EOS that’s
brill, but they’ve now got a tracker in it to check my mileage EOS
you’ve got to have a tracker on it? EOS I’ve got it on it, yeah but
it’s- all they do is just check how many miles you do in the year, and
if you go over then you gotta pay a premium cos I said I’ll only do
five thousand miles EOS which is why it went cheaper but if my car
ever gets stolen or anything I can like phone them up and say, ‘can
you just- my car’s been stolen can you-’ EOS track it sort of thing
EOS yeah, turn the tracker on EOS that’s a- that’s a- that’s alright
isn’t it? EOS and then they give it all to the police, and the police
go and find EOS that’s decent my bike’s got so many cracks down the
side of it where the previous owner dropped it on the floor EOS ahh,
have you not like, dropped it or anything yet, EOS nope not dropped it
at- I- I came off it in EOS I can’t see any cracks actually EOS it’s
on the- it’s on the other side I came off it in erm EOS in Buille Hill
park luckily, EOS you know on the grass EOS so that was the only time
I’ve fell off it so far erm, and it was actually quite funny, I got up
laughing to myself just going, ‘oh my God’ EOS but yeah, there’s like
big cracks down the side of it and you can see where, like it was been
painted over sort of thing, but it’s like, cos it’s like, it’s like
shiny isn’t it EOS but, on the other- on the other side, erm, it’s
just like matte, matte blue paint EOS and it just looks stupid erm,
but I can’t complain for what I paid for it and the mileage on it
there’s still- it’s not even got a thousand miles on the clock yet EOS
has it not EOS ah, it’s great for, you know, just going back and
forward to work you know, takes me like, well, not half the time, but
you know, depends what time, if I’ve gotta go you know, down to
**anon** at you know like five o’clock and it’s really busy, just
zipping through EOS zipping through the traffic is pretty cool, but
did I tell you- did I tell you about that argument what I had with
that van driver? EOS I think you did EOS yeah, I was like just – EOS
oh, you were going past weren’t you? EOS yeah, I was ju- I was just
like going past the line of traffic and I stopped to let him- to let
him come past on the other side of the road, and erm, he starts shake-
shaking his head at me going, you know, like mouthing off in his van
going, ‘ah, what you doing this for, what you doing this for?’ EOS so
I was just like you know, g- give him the fingers EOS and he pulled up
at the side of me there, and he was like proper screaming in my face
going, ‘why don’t you get to the back of the queue, all these other
people have gotta wait’ and I was like, EOS ‘I’m on a bike’ EOS it’s
part an- ‘part and parcel of having a motorbike to be honest with you
mate, you know, I’m not gonna sit in a queue of traffic when I can
just overtake everbody am I’ EOS oh, gotta think- EOS I really want a
motorbike now, what? EOS gotta think- gotta think sometimes erm, have
you not thought more about getting yours? EOS I have but it’s EOS are
you gonna wait a couple of years do you reckon? EOS yeah, probably
until like, we get our own place and that, cos EOS yeah cos I reckon-
you probably need a garage to store it in, EOS to save it from getting
nicked EOS I could put it in the back garden at the moment, but EOS
it’s cost as well EOS if I could get rid of my car then I would, but I
can’t for EOS no, well if you- if you, you know, cos I know, the
reason I got rid of my car was cos the insurance was just was too high
EOS you know, I think I was paying two thousand pound, and it was only
a little fiat punto EOS so I thought, you know what, erm, this doesn’t
justify it, you know, I only travel, you know, n- not far to work do
I, I walk to work most days, so I just got rid of it and got that cos
it’s cheap as chips to run, three hundred and fifty pound a year on me
insurance EOS my tax is nearly that, road tax what was your road- EOS
how much- how much is your tax for a year? EOS oh, it’s about two
hundred and fifty five I think EOS bloody hell, do you know how much
it is on that EOS it’s probably about five or something- EOS fif-
fifteen pounds for the year EOS don’t laugh, it’s not funny EOS no, it
is well worth it, I would do it, but I need a car to get EOS yeah, it
can be- it can be a bit of a- EOS a pain in the arse, you know when
it’s raining or it’s a little bit EOS yeah wait ‘til snow comes in
winter- EOS well I’ve been- I’ve been riding it since the middle of-
since the middle of January, so EOS you know, I’ve been out- I’ve been
out there in the cold and- and everything like that, you know, with me
long johns on EOS underneath me thermals so, I erm, I can, I’ll be-
plan to be riding it until it starts snowing and getting icy, so, then
it’ll go in the garage until I can get it out again EOS oh, depends on
the job front, I might get a car but the EOS a cheap one, insure it
for a month or something? EOS insure it- yeah, just insure it for a
month EOS get on **anon** EOS erm, I’m al- I’m already on **anon** EOS
oh, that’s good EOS but, you know, she uses it for work going back and
forward to Swinton every day told her to get a motorbike but she won’t
have any of it EOS I can imagine **anon** on a motorbike EOS I told
her, you know, it won’t cost you anything EOS get her a sidecar for
yours