Harriet **anon** speaks for the rest of the family with EOS where was
this, in yours? you didn’t do it EOS or you chose who you did it to
EOS you see th- I think the thing is though aswell like I- the-
culturally, we’ve changed so much, like, in them days EOS forty, fifty
years ago, you stayed with- from- from where you was born you went to
school, you got married, and you moved into the EOS near your Mam EOS
and that’s- that’s what happened, whereas nowadays, you know, we- w-
we finished school, and, you know, I come from Salford, but I might
get a job, say, in Warrington, or Cheshire, or well, anywhere, because
we’re a lot more mobile, we’ve got cars, trains, and I- y- which you
didn’t have in them days EOS yeah, a- or acknowledge them EOS I’ve got
a lad near- I- you know, it’s very rare I mean I’ll- I’ll let onto
them neighbours there, but they never speak to anybody EOS erm, and-
but EOS what I’m thinking is, if you move away, so, say you move to
Warrington from- from Manchester when you’re bringing your own
children up, you don’t know your neighbours, so you wouldn’t allow
your children to play in the street would you EOS yeah, yeah, it’s
horrible that really isn’t it EOS cause that’s I mean- I think that’s
one- the one where you do get talking to people, is, because, you
know, y- you’ll be talking about, ‘ooh, is that you’re dog’, or ‘is
that- ohh, is- is that your little’n’ and that’s how you get
communities building up, so it- it- it’s hard now isn’t it, I mean if
you’re working full time, so the kids are being dropped off at a
childminder’s, when do you get time to mix EOS two cars on the drive,
yeah EOS in one way, yeah EOS I absolutely agree with you w- on that,
and I think from my perspective, you know, when m- me Mum left school,
her views on life, were, you know, get married to a lovely fella, have
children, build- build a home EOS you know, she- she went to, erm, to
college to do secretarial, erm, work as a stop gap, until what she
wanted was to get married, and have EOS when I was leaving school, the
last thing on earth I wanted to do was get married and have children,
to me that was a put down EOS my- from my perspective, it was, no, get
out in the workforce, you’re getting the best job you can, you’re
earning your own money, you know, your own wheels, independent EOS so
I mean, in- in that short space of time and- time and you’re only
talking, well me Mum was twenty-one when she had me and **anon** so
it’s only, pff, eighteen, twenty years EOS for a complete turn around
EOS but now I think women are realising EOS in- in, you know, in this
day in age, that we’ve lost out somewhere, you know, we’ve made a rod
for our own back, not only are we, you know, bringing up families,
running a household, you know, keeping a relationship together,
hopefully, if you do, but we’re also working EOS I can really believe
that EOS cause I think it was always the woman who was to blame, no
matter what went on EOS you know, socially, it was always the woman
who was to blame you know, she couldn’t keep her marriage together,
she couldn’t do this EOS she’s the one with the problem, whereas th- I
mean that must’ve been the shame that people had to carry if they
decided to leave a EOS do you know, I’ve thought about this, and I
honest- honestly think that because women didn’t have a choice in them
days, erm, and perhaps I’m- might be talking a hundred years ago when
divorce wasn’t on the cards, erm, but you know, I know people from
other cultures from- from cultures which are very similar, erm, Ni-
Nigerian culture, if they- they’re not happy in a marriage, they
haven’t got a choice, they have to stay at it, and I think if you
think about it, that makes you work harder at it, if you haven’t got a
choice, if you’re stuck with this bugger for the next seventy years,
you aint gotta choice, you’ll work at making the relationship work for
you because you don’t have a choice, and perhaps now we’re- we’re
just, perhaps we’re thinking, ‘oh no, forget that, farts in bed,
that’s it, gone, next one’ EOS and I- I think- I think that- that’s t-
very true, that is- that is very true, but- and I think that’s- the- a
battered wife syndrome is different from an unhappy marriage, or- or a
marriage that isn’t- or, a relationship that isn’t as fulfilling as
you would want it to EOS course it does EOS but in some ways I think
that’s really nice and that’s, you know, that’s one of the things I
miss about being in a long term relationship, perhaps the mundane-cy
of it, but, there’s somebody there who says, ‘do you want a brew
love’, or, the rot sets in EOS but, don’t you think nowadays, you
know, w- we’re a little bit more educated about, erm, relationships,
and about keeping relationships going, you know, as much as you know,
I would- I would stand up to any young girl and say, ‘you do not put
up with that in a relationship’, I would- I would stand up to them and
say, ‘if you want a relationship to stay together, you need to still
go out together, you still need to have a laugh together if y- you
know, and put them into your marriage, or else, you know, that’s the
way marriages go, don’t- don’t you think EOS don’t you think it’s more
a case of you know, ‘I can’t leave this set up because I’ve got- I’ve
still got payments left on me car’ EOS ‘or I’ve still-’ do you know
what- I know it sounds sad EOS and it really does sound sad, but, I-
I- I’ve gotta hand- hold me hand up, I’ve done that in the past, you
know, thinking, ‘oh I can’t- can’t leave him this week, you know, I’ve
still got payments left on me car’ and EOS but I think it’s not all
negative because I look at me stepson’s relationship and I think men
are much more hands on with regard to children these days- cause they
really lost out, men lost out didn’t they in the past EOS oh God no
EOS yeah, it was, ‘shh, don’t go in there, me Granddad’s in there’ EOS
switches the telly over? and he just- do you know, honestly EOS and
you probably caused a big bloody argument through that EOS yeah, I
remember when we was kids, we had loads of Auntys EOS who weren’t our
Auntys EOS got another one EOS there was nothing abusive in it EOS it
was just a case of, you know, ‘when your Mam’s not here, I’m your EOS
‘you do what you’re told’ EOS while- while they’re on EOS yeah,
fingers going EOS code code, yeah EOS we may well do, we may well do
EOS yeah and- well, I mean things evolve don’t they EOS well it is, it
is, I mean y- w- when y- you email people now, you shorten everything
EOS I mean I’ve learned a few of them, like, I mean, L-O-L is ‘laugh
out EOS ha, ha, ha, no, ‘mwah’ is a kiss M-W-A-H, mwah like EOS but
the best one that I’ve learnt that use quite a lot actually, is P-
M-L, in capitals, pissed meself laughing EOS no, well we’ll have to
learn because I mean- it- it’s so- so much quicker, when you’re- you
know, you’re emailing EOS well I was on- on the laptop, erm, last week
it was, erm and I’m typing away, and next thing I get ‘beep’, I
thought, ‘who is- who’s this?’ this bloke, erm, is- is talking to m-
talking to me, so I’m texting him back, no, talking to him back, then
next thing, you know, you get your camera comes up, so he get the web-
webcam come up, cos my name’s Son **anon** he thought he was talking
to a fella EOS this twenty year old bloke in erm, Portugal wi- with
the same last name as me EOS so I mean, we had a right conversation
cos he- he does the surfing, just West of Lagos, where I’ve been out
to a lo- loada times, so the next time I going over, I’m going to see
him for a drink, now that’s EOS that is the future EOS oh, I’ll show
you EOS I’m just naïve me, I ge- I got one called erm, **anon** so I
thought, ooh, I’ll, you know- **anon** it’s called- don’t think so EOS
but I mean, it said like, join this, I’m thinking, ‘yeah, go on then’
I’m thinking it’s like facebook you know, a social networking site, so
I goes on, next thing, ‘beep’, th- this fella, ‘oh hello Sonia
**anon**, I really like your photo, can I see your- your album’ well
I’m taking the piss, so I’ve put my photograph on erm, and I hate
being judged by me- me age, so instead of putting I was born in
**anon**, I put I was born in nineteen sixteen, so, my photo album’s
called, ‘look at me, I’m ninety three’ EOS so, so, that’s got this
fella, you know, ‘can I have a look at your album’, ‘what for?’,
‘please let me have a look at your album’, ‘oh, alright then’, so
it’s- next thing, I’ve got fifteen fellas, throughout the globe, one-
one was in China, one was in Italy, somewhere, one- and they’re all
talking, and typing furiously away, ‘what do you wanna look at me
photos for, don’t you know I’m ninety three’ but that w- that is a
completely dodgy site, and I’m telling you now I was talking t- I’m
just naïve me, so I’m talking to this fella, from erm, where was he
from? Stafford, so I’m saying, ‘ooh, w- what’s the weather like in
Stafford’, ‘oh, it’s alright, you know’, ‘what you up to today?’, ‘oh,
well I- I drive erm, a wagon for a living’, I went, ‘oh, do you, do
you get up- do you get up to Manchester often?’, ‘ooh yeah, I’m in
Trafford Park erm, all the time, next time I come up I’ll give you a
call’ I went, ‘ooh right, alright fine’ next thing, ‘erm, so what’s
your number?’, ‘erm, well I won’t give you me number now, erm’, ‘well
I’m coming up to Trafford Park next week’ EOS ‘erm, will you have sex’
‘with me in me cab’ EOS ‘I thought you were gonna ask me for a coffee
EOS come on Sonia **anon**, you’re ninety-three **anon** honestly EOS
yeah, honestly, I just went I’ll block that one off, so I- I’ve
decided to knock that one on the head cos EOS no, seriously, totally,
I mean- and, erm, you know, they want to know if you’ve got a webcam,
and will you do this for them, and will you do that for them EOS and
again, just go to the frigging place in Manchester where the girls get
paid for a living you know EOS th- there are places where you can go,
‘will you shag me in me cab in Trafford Park?’ I don’t think so EOS
I’ll need a- I’ll need a curry and a bottle of wine before EOS I’m
sure you could’ve thought of some very choice words EOS a big red
flashing thing you know EOS you can’t say that on this- on this site
EOS what, would you go for a coffee in Manchester? ooh I didn’t know
that EOS wouldn’t you think though, that, you know, compa- phone
companies w- would make phones specifically for deaf people EOS as a
communication device I mean EOS I can just see her doing that and all
EOS but I bet- did she pick it up from the shop? go and see my mate
down there, **anon** EOS has she? That’s a good’n? oooh, has she got
an iphone? me Mum wants one of them EOS but them- them iphones, I
mean, you know that phone, that flip phone, I bought me and me Mum one
and it must be five years ago EOS cause I think it was the Christmas
of- that I bought it her and she’s had it five years, well sh- she’s
since the contract’s run out, she’s got- put it on pay as you go but
she’s got this new mega deal something through Virgin or whatever for
her phone, so what she wants to do is unlock this phone that I got her
five years ago erm so that she can have it on this Virgin, but six
months ago she was moaning and moaning and moaning she wanted an
iphone, I’m saying, ‘Mam, you can’t even bleeding text, what do you
want an iphone for?’ she’s like, ‘well **anon** such-and-such-a-
body’s got one, and we were in a restaurant and I- and me and your
Dad, we were chatting away, and we said, erm, yeah, oh yes, we still
live in Salford, and I told her me address, and I’m not kidding you,
she turned her phone round, and there was our front door, on her
phone- on her phone- I- my front door was on her phone’ and I went,
‘yeah, well it’ll be an iphone, and they’ve got satellite navigation
and all that’, ‘well, I want one’ EOS I said, ‘but you still don’t
know how to text’ EOS I think they’ve gotta be something that you’re
gonna use isn’t it EOS did you get a disc with it? I- all- all I’m
saying is, I mean I’m- I’m no techy at all, but, whenever I’ve got
anything, like I’ve got a camera, or satnav or, you get a disc with
it, and then, when you’ve got the time, and, you know me, I never- I
never even look at a recipe I just think I can cook, throw it all in
together, but I- I’ll be thinking to meself, ‘ooh, I don’t know how to
use that video bit on me camera’ EOS but all I’ll do is either go on
the computer or go on the little pamphlet, and they’re dead easy to
use nowadays EOS it’s just having the patience to sit down EOS and-
and actually read through it EOS cause they are easy, you know,
everything’s like user friendly these days, they’re not like they used
to be, cos I- you know, manuals used to be unless you had a degree EOS
you couldn’t bloody read it, never mind understand what was on them
EOS but I think you get frightened of things, and I think you’re just-
you have like a- a mental blinker EOS and you think, ‘I’m just ne- I’m
not gonna be able to use that’ erm, because me Dad’s not got a mobile
phone, and me Mum’s been saying, ‘well, you know, when I get me
iphone, your Dad can have my- my old one’ erm, and I say, ‘well I’ll
be able to teach him how to use it’ cos I am good at showing people
what EOS you know, how to use thing- things, but you know, I think
sometimes you just get mental block where you think, ‘I’m never gonna
be able to do it’, so you’re preventing yourself from- from- from EOS
erm, in a way EOS right, pressing the wrong thing? there’s o- there’s
only one person who could’ve lost the data and it EOS course you do,
yeah EOS just press the return key EOS and that’s e- exactly right y-
you know, a- and everybody, everybody, ah kid, is exactly the same,
you know, when you first look at computer, unless you’ve been shown
what to do, how are you supposed to EOS you see, it’s- it’s amazing
though I mean how quickly things change, I mean I remember doing erm,
a computer course it’s not ten years ago, at night school, erm, cos
you know our- our **anon** did computers at- at college and that, and
I thought, ‘we’ve got a bloody big computer in there and you know,
when I’m on me day off it’s sat there doing nothing, I may as well
learn how to use it’ EOS so I went on a computer course and one of the
first things they showed me how to do, erm, was put something on a
floppy disc, we don’t use floppy discs anymore, who uses floppy discs
now EOS it’s a small disc EOS no, no, no, no, no, it’s not, what am I
talking about, it- they used to be like in a square EOS yeah, but
nobody uses them these days EOS they use them little I’ve got one,
dongle thingies, it’s not a EOS you put it in the side of the computer
and you save it on to- on to EOS a memory stick, yeah, that’s it,
that’s what they’re called EOS but that- that wasn’t ten years ago,
and yet things have changed EOS I think the- the- I think the-
there’ll always be a qwerty keyboard, there’ll always be a qwerty
keyboard, on what- on whatever technology that you’re gonna use, cos
that’s our form of communication in the EOS so you’ll be right EOS
well I know our **anon** erm, give me a disc, ooh, I’m ashamed to say,
God knows where it is, but I think it- think it was called ECDL, but
that was literally, you taught yourself how to use a computer from the
CD, you just loaded the CD, and then it, you know, talked you how to
go through what to do, and I thought, ‘ooh, how fantastic’, but,
they’re something like seventy pound I think EOS she got it because
of- she got it through work, erm, so they wanna be giving them- them
out in erm, these lessons and say like, well do this in- in lesson and
then EOS yeah, and it’s not so much- I mean I’m pretty computer
literate but sometimes it’s the language they use EOS you know, that
EOS that is confusing cos they just think, ‘upload’, ‘upl- what does
up- rip and burn, yeah, within your computer EOS right, you see that’s
dead, dead easy, I’d be able to show you that EOS erm, but I tell you
on- one good tip, that somebody told me years ago, erm, on a computer
is, you know all you get- get a question mark, wherever you are,
there’s that, either question mark or a help EOS just click on that if
y- if you’re stuck on it and somewhere it’ll explain how to do what
you want to do, cos what I tend to do is I always have a- like a pad
at the side of the computer and then, whatever it tells me to do, I’ll
write it down, and some of the things are so easy, it’s like, ‘click
on start, click on programs, click on this, click on that, click on
that, click on that, right, change that to a ‘no’, you’re sorted’ EOS
and I’ll never remember it, like EOS the following day, once I’ve
slept, that’s it, but once it’s written down, it’s written out,
‘start, de, programs, blah, blah, blah’ EOS you do, you get blinkered,
what I- what I used- when I was training, what I used to do with
anyone in- in my office was say, right, there’s your pad, and I mean
them days we used to call them an idiot guide, you’re not allowed to
do that anymore, erm, but, say for example it was like, you know, rip
and burn, like, ‘click on that, click on that, click on that, click on
that’ right, now write it down, in those short phrases, not, ‘put your
disc in this’, just ‘click, click, click, click’ like a- a small,
short, a reminder, erm, and that’s it, right, you put that away, don’t
look at it, right, now you’ve not done rip and burning for six months,
right, get your idiot guide, get it out, ‘oh yeah’, click, click,
click, click, and it’s easy then EOS it becomes dead easy, and y’kn-
y- th- it- it takes away the fear, because it’ll be something, you
know, it- and I don’t care who you are, however brainy you are that
you’ll- you’ll just forget EOS what do I go into for that EOS erm, and
it- it’s just there for you