one, two, three, four, five EOS cool, right, go on EOS erm, don’t even
know, I can’t even remember being young EOS erm young do you remember
our Science lessons, they were well good EOS fun, fun, fun EOS I know,
I was talking to **anon** the other day about erm, **anon** and how
she used to send everyone to the unit EOS oh right, I think he works
at Wetherspoons, cos I went in there and he ID’d me, and I was like,
‘I was in your year at school’ EOS I was just like, ‘hiya **anon**’
EOS and **anon** mm EOS good who was your favourite teacher at school?
yeah, that makes sense EOS **anon** was pretty good though, he was
funny **anon** EOS problem rubbish at woodwork EOS I remember I made
one for my Dad, you know that frame, with a flower EOS for valentine’s
day EOS I don’t know why I made it my Dad EOS it’s a bit weird that,
now that I think about it, it’s a bit weird yeah, and now I don’t know
where it is but, I made EOS I made a plane EOS but I don’t know where
it’s gone EOS I think it’s like, left it in the old house EOS what,
your plane? money box? Yeah EOS oh, we made a money box EOS I’m sure I
did, cos I’m sure I put nuts in it EOS he’s growing up, really, really
quick EOS he’s so cute EOS aww, he’s gorgeous EOS aww, I used to like
that EOS in a weird way EOS go like, ‘oh yeah, this is mine’ EOS you
like giving them back though EOS makes me laugh ahh, we went to Gap,
we went erm, on Saturday, went and took **anon** round, aww I took my
boyfriend round to see my family and then, you know them lanterns we
like, tried to light one of them lanterns EOS oh, it was the most
embarrassing thing EOS and it just- you know the bit, the square bit
what you light, it just fell off, I was like, ‘this is not good’ EOS
like, patting it out on the grass, I was like, oops EOS and then we
lit- finally lit one, and it like flew off, and then it was like stuck
in a tree EOS we was like, ‘oh my God, it’s gonna set the tree on
fire’ EOS ‘it’s gonna set the tree on fire’ but then, it like flew off
and we was like- my Granddad was stood there going, ‘I’m not happy
about this, I’m not happy about this, it’s gonna set next door on
fire’ EOS I was like, ‘Granddad, chill out, it’ll blow away soon’ EOS
it was so funny oh it was funny EOS they was, ahh they didn’t really
see him cos I was like, ‘no, we’ll go and sit in this room’ EOS ‘I
don’t really wanna sit with all them’, cos they wouldn’t stop EOS you
know what they’re like EOS no, she said she was gonna be cos she
didn’t- w- she said I think she was alright going round to **anon** or
something EOS then she was like, ‘I don’t really fancy going out’ I
was like, ‘ooh, go round to Gran’s, I’ll be there at about eight’
she’s like, ‘right, okay, I’ll see you there then’, and she just
didn’t turn up, I was EOS so I was sat there with **anon** with all
the kids EOS was- it was great EOS proper getting terrored though ooh,
they just bully me all the EOS yeah, they’re just like, ‘oh, he seems
lovely’, I was like, ‘he is’ EOS that’s a long time that isn’t it?
ahh, that’s just mean EOS would be embarrassing you’d be like, ‘it’s
not mine’ EOS ‘I’m just walking it’ EOS oh it’s hard talking when you
don’t really kn- like EOS I can’t think of anything to say EOS apart
from that not really EOS I think- no, I thi- actually I think I joined
the rounders team, I was pretty good at rounders, was quite- the only
thing I was good at EOS I know, and you didn’t really do anything, you
just stood in the gym going, ‘hm, champ’ EOS on the- on the running
machine, and you’re just having a stroll EOS it was good EOS I don’t,
I just don’t- I just don’t do exercise, it’s not really for me I don’t
think EOS did you ever do drama? neither did I, right but everyone’s
got like a lesson now, full of drama, like just for drama EOS cos
**anon** was like, ‘oh yeah, we was in drama the other day’ I was
like, ‘you had drama?’ cos we didn’t have it EOS I was like, ‘oh, I
would’ve liked drama’ EOS no, I would of, yeah EOS quite good at
acting I think EOS you know, right, on the first day, I remember Mum
walks me and **anon** to the bus stop, then stood there until the bus
came, it was so EOS and then she like asked one of the year elevens,
she was like, ‘oh, will you take care of these and make sure they get
to school alright’ I was like, fucks sake, ‘Mum, this is so
embarassing’ EOS no, you had it the wrong way EOS just tie it in a
knot EOS we used to, right, you know when, like, year seven you had
them little tiny ones then year eleven you got them big huge ones EOS
oh God don’t know what we was thinking EOS we had blazers EOS I quite
like my blazer, I’m not gonna lie EOS I looked pretty good in it EOS
and your blazer EOS it was horrible you couldn’t just take it off, no
EOS I know, it was horrible, like on the- we were allowed to on the
yard EOS I know ‘no, you can’t’ EOS I’m going to anyway, so EOS I
remember when **anon** made me cry EOS ah, that was horrible, cos
like, I’d had a really bad morning, you know like with my Mum and
stuff EOS and then I went in, and I was wearing a leather jacket, and
I was thinking, ‘ahh’, and I saw her walking down the corridor towards
me, I was like, ‘oh my God, she’s gonna say something’ EOS and I was
stood there, and I was like, and she was like, going at me in my face,
and I was like, ‘uhh, shut up’, and then I just cried, I was like,
‘ahh’ EOS it was horrible she went, ‘right, take- ta- take your jacket
off’, I went, ‘it’s raining outside’, she went, ‘I don’t care, take
your jacket off’, I was like EOS you know when you’re wearing pants
white socks EOS cause like but, why would you wear white socks? but
everyone used to just wear black socks anyway, and in EOS year eleven
we were allowed to weren’t we? I don’t know, she went EOS it’s alright
with a skirt, because EOS it looks alright, but, ahh, it’s like EOS
yeah used to get told off for it all the time black socks looked nice
though EOS **anon** do you remember, cos you used to roll your skirt
up didn’t EOS si- so it’s not like, down below your knee EOS and she
stopped me and **anon** in the hall, and she was like, ‘right, girls,
have you got your skirts rolled up?’ I was like, ‘no, it just won’t go
past my hip’ like, she was like, ‘that’s clearly a lie’, I was like,
‘okay’ EOS and she was like, ‘right, lift your s- lift your shirts up,
I wanna see your skirts’ EOS I was like EOS and then we’d walk past
and she’d make us do our ties, have our skirts long, ah, it was so
embarrassing, and you’d walk down the corridor and you’d be like, roll
it back up EOS mm oh God, wouldn’t mind it with pants though, just
looked silly with a skirt EOS tuck it under your jumper EOS I’m not
gonna lie, I quite liked school uniform, cos it was green EOS but
that’s only cos it’s like my favourite colour EOS I like wanted a
green car but EOS the only one I could get was blue EOS my Dad, the
other day came round and he’s got a green car, I was EOS ‘oh right,
you couldn’t find me a green car, but you could get yourself a green
car’ EOS yeah, I went, ‘can we swap’, he went, ‘Claudia **anon**, the
insurance on this is gonna be sky high’, I was like, sky high already
EOS I don’t know what I’d do now if I didn’t have a car EOS they’re
horrible, cos I don’t walk anywhere, ever EOS I don’t know what I’d
do, I’d probably just sit in the house all the EOS she got in the car
and I went, ‘Erin **anon**, do you even know me?’, the last time I got
the bus was EOS funny I can’t decide whether I like him or not EOS
with my Mum EOS and my Gran and my Granddad EOS I know, Mum was like-
my Mum- Mum was like, ‘are you ready to hit the town with me’ I was
EOS then me Aunty yesterday she was like, ‘what if your Mum pulled’, I
was like, so, I went, ‘I’m not even going out with her’ EOS ‘what if
she pulled?’ EOS couldn’t even imagine it EOS ahh she’s dead excited
though don’t know why, she was like, ‘ahh, it’s gonna be a holiday
with just us’, I was like, ‘yeah’ EOS yeah, it should be alright,
wouldn’t really do anything EOS sit by the pool, relax EOS in the rain
EOS God, it’s horrible EOS well you’ll just have to drink on your own
again EOS it’s like four months away EOS my cousin told me, he went,
what did he say? He said there’s something like hundred and thirty
three days or something, I was like EOS it’s a bit- bit precise there
EOS not been counting down or anything EOS I’m not really that excited
for Christmas anymore EOS I don’t know EOS like, last year was a bit
of a let down EOS oh, I don’t know either EOS erm, a Nintendo DS
actually EOS I know, I’ve- and I’ve used it like twice EOS I hate
that, I was like, ‘**anon**, do you wanna buy this off me’ EOS he was
like, ‘no, I’ve only g- I’ve got my own’, I was like, ‘oh’ EOS
alright, ebay it is EOS I was talking to **anon** last night, I was
like, ‘got any gossip about **anon** from school?’ it- she was like,
‘not really’, I was like, ‘how can you not have gossip about someone’
EOS got kicked out of **anon** didn’t he EOS erm, long story,
basically he set a bin on fire and then EOS and then apparently he
tried to put it out with deodorant, I was EOS ‘what an idiot’ EOS
you’re not- right- he’s not stupid is he? clearly know that it’s gonna
make the fire worse EOS I think so, and that’s even worse, cos like
could’ve set the whole classroom on fire EOS I was like, ‘what- what
are you even thinking when you do this stuff?’ he was like, ‘I don’t
know, I just do it’, I was like, yeah he- but he keeps saying, ‘other
people were with me’, and I was like, ‘well, why didn’t you say that?’
he went, ‘cos I didn’t wanna tell- tell off anyone’, I was like,
‘probably wouldn’t have got kicked out then if it was other people’
EOS mm but I don’t- I don’t think he’s bothered really cos he’s got
like loads of friends now, cos they are, cos obviously, the people
from **anon** live in **anon** EOS so, now he goes to the one **anon**
he’s got all his mates in EOS so, it’s pretty good and he’s always out
now, so like EOS got the house to myself in the day, when he’s off,
and it’s like- I know boring though EOS Mum keeps telling me to move
out, she’s like, ‘so when are you gonna get a full time job’ EOS ‘when
are you moving out?’, ‘Mum, I don’t know’, ‘you need to think about it
don’t you’, I was like EOS oh God do you remember him, on that magic
show? What was it called? it is a little bit sad, a little bit sad EOS
oh, yeah which one was that one that died? Was he out of Art Attack?
Or Smart? Was it Smart? Oh EOS what did you do in your summer holidays
like, in school? no, in school EOS you know where **anon** is, you
know she’s got that big field outside EOS we used to sit on there in
the summer, like, just sit there EOS I can’t even remember what we
used to do, we used to just sit there, and you know when you used to
play music on your phone EOS who else, someone else did as well can’t
remember EOS ah, I remember the first Friday that I got drunk on the
park EOS it wasn’t very nice actually, it was quite scary EOS cause
like everyone else was out wasn’t they, and it’s like, mm, okay, so we
just went and sat on my friends grass outside her EOS and then my
friend, you know **anon** EOS I think that’s what he’s called EOS yeah
he like jumped on the cars and like ran across them EOS we was like,
‘oh my God you can’t do that’ EOS oh my God, I was like, I didn’t know
what to do, I was like, ‘**anon** probably should get down’ but yeah,
and then I think it- I think it was **anon** who got beat up that
night EOS and him and **anon** and **anon** mm, they got together, but
like, didn’t really get together EOS I know it was weird EOS they like
kissed and everything and then, just nothing, I was EOS it was
alright, cos they both liked each other, you could proper tell but
then nothing EOS I know, mm, in a bush EOS I thought you was gonna say
summet else then EOS I don’t know EOS she’s lucky all the time EOS
it’s cos you’ve got none left EOS it’s good that isn’t it EOS I think
it’s like eighteen in Tesco EOS went round on Friday, I thought, ‘I’ll
have a bit, ‘go on, I’ll share’ EOS she went, ‘it’s alright, we’ll
walk to Asda from Selfridges’, right, and then we got there, it was
like, ‘we’re gonna have to carry all these bags through the Trafford
Centre back to the car’ EOS cause I was like walking to the car, and
she went, ‘Claudia **anon** where you going? We’re going Selfridges’,
I was like, ‘what do you mean, I’m gonna get my car, to drive to
Asda’, she went, ‘no, we’ll walk, we’ll walk’ EOS yeah and then I
think- you can see us walking all the way to Debenhams and thinking
EOS it’s the other end EOS Peter Andre makes me laugh EOS ah, I wish
he was my Dad EOS I don’t know EOS I’m so excited EOS yeah, have you
seen the bit where Neil’s dancing in that club? doing the robot? oh my
God, it’s so funny EOS ah, I’ve seen loads of different ones, like-
where he squirts aftershave down his pants and then screams, yeah EOS
I can imagine that’d hurt EOS where he’s got- he’s carrying the door
around with him EOS ahh, I don’t understand why he carries it round
with him EOS why doesn’t he just like, leave it on the car, it’s not
gonna make a difference whether he’s still got it or not EOS and no-
one’s really gonna steal a door EOS someone’d steal the car, cos it’s
not got a door EOS I even got a suntan, I was like, ahh, come on
suntan EOS just, and then I thought, I’m gonna have to top it up with
fake tan EOS ball pits, ahh EOS I’d always be scared of going in there
you know, cos kids are in there, and they EOS like could poo and EOS
no, I’m not even bothered about, ooh, imagine like eurgh, an EOS in
the ball pit EOS no, have you seen, ah, do you watch the Big Bang
Theory? Oh, it’s so funny that, have you seen the one where Sheldon
goes in the ball pit, oh it’s so funny, and he’s like going down, and
then Leonard’s trying to catch him and he pops up and he goes, ‘the
zinger’ EOS so funny, oh, I love Sheldon makes me laugh EOS having fun
in a ball pit EOS proper fancy McDonalds EOS no, I had Chin- oh my
God, went Trafford Centre, had a Chinese, and it was so spicy EOS my
mouth was on fire EOS oh it re- I was sat there with every mouthful
just going EOS was really nice though EOS I actually ate all of it you
know EOS got to really EOS it was five ninety-nine EOS it weren’t too
bad EOS no, I took them back right, I don’t know why, I was craving
peanuts EOS it’s a weird thing, and I ate about four, and then I
thought, I don’t even want them anymore EOS so then I took them round
to my Gran’s seventieth, and I was like, ‘I’ve got some peanuts here’,
she was like, ‘ooh, put some in bowls’, I was like, ‘alright’ EOS ah
knew I should’ve got the small bag EOS it was a huge bag, it was like
this big EOS you know they don’t do chocolate erm, peanuts in Asda EOS
I know, I w- that’s what I was looking for, I was like, cos I wanted
some chocolate ones, you know, cos they’re nice EOS and didn’t have
any EOS I was like, ‘oh’, gutted EOS little bit erm EOS I was talking
to **anon** about the toilets in school EOS do you remember when
everyone used to go in and smoke in them EOS it’s like, do you
remember **anon** used to bring- used to bring a toilet roll into
school? cos he used to always have a poo EOS in school, I was like,
‘ooh, that’s nasty’ EOS some lad poo- did he poo himself? ah, that’s
disgusting EOS ah that- ah that’d be so embarrassing EOS ew do you
remember **anon** EOS cause he was- was he diabetic or something? and
he used to say that he needed like, chocolate so EOS someone came in
with a bar of chocolate, he’d be like, ‘you’re not allowed to eat that
in here’ so he’d take it off them EOS and then eat it himself, and
it’s like, ‘didn’t pay for that or EOS I know God I seen him the other
day actually EOS yeah where did I see him? think it was Trafford
Centre didn’t know who he was EOS did you ? in high school she used to
have jam butties every single day EOS ahh, them paninis in college,
they were nice should’ve tried one, they were nice EOS ham and cheese
panini EOS mm, could- oh, I could eat one of them now EOS oh God, yeah
EOS I don’t think I’ve failed any EOS but I don’t think I dunno don’t
think I’ve done really badly just not great EOS it’s hard though,
isn’t it EOS yeah I don’t wanna go in EOS and see all my teachers
though EOS cause they’ll be like, ‘oh what did you get, what did you
get’ and I’m like, ‘an E’ EOS they’ll just be like, ‘oh’ EOS mm it’s
better than E, let’s put it that way EOS but if you wanna go Uni and
stuff it is important, isn’t it? well, I can’t wait for everyone’s
fresher’s week EOS just gonna, go around EOS don’t know actually EOS
mm I think I’m coming down to Leeds EOS mm, I know, I went out with
him, I think it was not last Friday, the Friday before, and I lost my
phone EOS I know the only time I go out with my cousins, and I loose
my EOS no I know, in **anon** as well EOS and I bet someone who took
it, cos I think someone took it, cause like, I rang it and it was off,
and I was like, ‘someone’s took it’ ah, was so upset EOS I was so
upset EOS erm, just round **anon**, like EOS yeah and then I think, it
was a- cos we went to a pizza place, you know, like you do EOS after
you’ve been out you get a bit peckish EOS so- so I must’ve like put my
phone down EOS and got really excited about this pizza EOS and then
just forgot that my phone was there, but I went back the day after and
they was like, ‘oh no, we’ve not seen it, we’ve not seen it’, I was
like, ‘probably took it haven’t you’ EOS so, and I went into all the
pubs and everything, but, no EOS mm so now I’ve gotta save up for
another one EOS and I’m skint EOS cause you can win it EOS I don’t
know EOS I know, you should really put it on if you wanna win it EOS
it sort of helps EOS yeah, yeah, little bit EOS Mum puts it on every
week and I’d- I’d like to think that if she won, she’d give me a
little bit EOS I don’t know where they get that spare pound from EOS I
never have a spare pound, it’s always in my car ah EOS no, she wins
like a fiver or something EOS someone who was in my Psychology last
year, he’s got like a gambling EOS he’s like, how old is he? I think
he’s like twenty, and he’s got a gambling problem, I was like how can
you even get one at twenty EOS cos he went, ‘I just go to the casinos
every weekend’, and I’m like, ‘why? W-Where do you even get money from
to do that?’ EOS wish I had money to go to a casino but no EOS having
a car rinses your money EOS like anything I have like one night out a
month EOS I know, it’s horrible but it’s so expensive insurance, it’s
EOS **anon** got quoted nine thousand pound EOS to go on my car, and I
was like, it’s not exactly a big car EOS nine thousand, I was like EOS
I don’t know EOS I don’t know, I think it’s cos he’s a boy, but it’s
meant to have gone the same isn’t it EOS so, it should really be the
same, cos we’re both the same age EOS I don’t know, it’s the same car
EOS erm, just under three EOS it’s not exactly EOS no, I know, I was
like ‘are you sure you did it right?’, and he was like, ‘yeah’ ‘hm,
alright’ nine grand ah talking to **anon** about my scars, cos I’ve
got loads all over my EOS cos I was just clumsy EOS I’m just clumsy
all the time, never broke anything EOS but I’ve got cuts and, ah, I’ve
got about four bruises now, and I’ve no idea where they’ve come from
EOS it’s like, all over me I m- I must like fall over a lot EOS but I
just don’t remember EOS told I told **anon** about **anon**, you know
**anon**, well, everyone knows **anon**, and he was like, ‘really’, I
was like, ‘yeah, really’ EOS yeah, she’s got a- she came to my Gran’s
thing on Saturday and she had purple hair EOS purple tights, and I was
like EOS ‘do you think she’s like purple at the moment?’ EOS but then
she had pink crocs on, I was like, what are you doing with your life?
and then you know, we all had like, stickers on, name tags EOS just in
case people didn’t know who we are EOS as it’s asked the whole family
EOS it was like, ‘this is ridiculous’, and erm, **anon** came EOS
‘**anon**, **anon** partner’, I was like, ‘ooh, cringe’ EOS ahh,
disgusting, right she had all her hair, cos she’s grown her hair, she
had it all scraped back in a pony EOS and she had a suit on, not a
sui- not a suit, like a shirt and jeans, and I was like she’s proper-
if you didn’t know that she was a girl, she’s- she’s a man EOS she
looks like a man EOS it’s like, ‘oh my God’, it’s embarrassing EOS ah,
it’s embarrassing EOS I was telling him, and he was like, ‘oh right’
he went, ‘my cousins- my sisters a lesbian’ I was like, ‘oh, right’
‘thanks’ EOS go round to his house, and they like they they’ll sit and
talk about her, she’s not- she doesn’t live there EOS and they’ll sit
and talk about her and it- they’ll be dead horrible about her, and
it’s like ‘that’s a bit harsh’ EOS so, I don’t know what to say but
they swear, all the time his family EOS and I’m sat there, cos, we
don’t swear, well, do sometimes but like, not in front of like your
Mum EOS and I was like, sat there and they just, ah, every other word,
and I was like, ‘oh my God, I don’t know what to do’ EOS I’m just sat
there like EOS ‘alright’ cos it’s dead weird they’re dead nice though
EOS my mouth’s dead dry now from talking EOS yeah, I’ve still got some
EOS I think the weather is making- it’s making my lips dead dry EOS
and then they’re dead sore EOS what are local people like? not very
friendly, not really EOS ew, from the toilet, you can get free water
from the bar EOS oh, **anon** there’s always this- I think- I think
he’s like homeless and he wears like, joggers and then a coat, and
that’s it, and it’s like ‘mmm’, it’s a bit digusting EOS and he’ll sit
with a pint, the whole night, the same pint the whole EOS it’s like, I
don’t even know how it lasts that long