 Yeah. Can you just count to three please. EOS One, two, three. EOS
Yeah. Ok that’s great. When you’re ready. EOS Ok Arnold . I’ll kick
off- we’ll kick off with you shall we? EOS What? EOS Your best or
funniest memory. EOS Best or funniest memory from when I was young.
EOS When you were young. EOS Erm- EOS Can you remember that far back?
EOS w- h- how young are we talking about here? EOS Well- EOS Very
young. EOS Again it depends really on how far back you can remember .
EOS Yeah, I think the best- probably the best memory I have of- of
being young is- is Christmas time when all the family used to get
together in those days we- we always had all our aunts and uncles and
cousins round on Christmas day and- EOS Yeah. EOS and erm- we- w-
there wasn’t an awful lot of money but erm we used to have quite a big
s- slap up meal at lunchtimes and lots of games and lots of fun. No
television of course in those days so yeah that’s probably the best
memory I’ve got from being young. EOS How young were you then? When
you did- EOS Oh from- EOS when you did change? EOS I would think that
was from being- from as early as I can remember being through- going
through to being about twelve. Something like that. EOS So your life
changed soon after you’ve met me? EOS Yeah, yeah, yeah. EOS Yeah. EOS
But erm a- as- as people grew older they didn’t want to- EOS families
got bigger as well. They did- EOS Yeah. EOS th- they didn’t get
together the same. EOS Up to that age I erm- I think my Christmases
were very similar in that people came to us for a Christmas lunch. But
because the erm, accomodation that we had at the time was a bit
cramped all the children went into the back room and the adults were
in the main dining room cos that’s when we lived at the laundry. We
had a chinese laundry in those days. EOS Really? EOS And the- the
front room was shop. EOS Yeah. EOS It was where we did the ironing,
stored the laundry that had been packaged. EOS Mm. EOS And the middle
room was the living room where we did everything . EOS And the back
room was the stove room. EOS There was a coal fired stove with flat
irons against it. But there was a big table in there as well. So
that’s where the kids sat to have their Christmas dinner. But it was
still good fun and happy times. EOS How many of you? EOS In total
people- oh- well there was- EOS Kids. EOS three six erm I- I can’t
think of it. Two sisters at the time and , myself. wasn’t with us
then. EOS Oh ok. EOS was an after thought. EOS yeah EOS I think my mum
thought she was going to get a new washing machine for Christmas you
know. She got instead. EOS Mm. EOS Erm then there’d be my three
cousins , . You’ve met haven’t you? EOS Yeah. EOS From . EOS Yeah. .
EOS And . EOS Mm. EOS And erm- EOS and there’d be my grandad. Auntie ,
mum, dad, uncle and auntie they were parents. Uncle and auntie they
were Pamela’s parents. Auntie used to come on her own because grandad
didn’t like uncle - EOS and uncle didn’t like Grandad . So he- had
the- he had Christmas dinner with his mother. EOS Aw. EOS So there was
a lot of us. EOS Mm. EOS And erm the odd friend. People like that used
to pop in throughout the day. Erm- but one of the most memorable
things as a kid happened when I was at the laundry. Erm when me
grandmother was alive she used to make beetroot wine. EOS Ok. EOS And
you had to wait for it to mature- EOS before you drank it. But I was
being a little bit eager and I opened one before it was ready and it
was like champagne and this red fizz went a- all over- EOS Ah- oh no.
EOS freshly laudered sheets, shirts, pillow cases. EOS Ha. EOS A whole
days washing was absolutely ruined. And I think I went to me bedroom,
locked it, and I was there for two day . EOS I was scared stiff of me
grandad. EOS Hm. EOS He really did rule the roost. EOS Really? EOS
Yeah. Fearsome character but erm extremely kind as well - EOS and hard
working. EOS Yeah. EOS His day used to start at about six o clock in
the morning and go on till three o’clock the following morning. EOS
Wow. EOS That was Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. Thursday, Friday,
Saturday his day started at nine and finished about five. EOS Yeah.
EOS But the laundry was all done by then and it was just a question of
taking in new stuff and delivering your- or doleing out the laundered
stuff to the erm- the regular customers cos they nearly all were
regulars in those days. EOS Yeah. EOS They all had their own laundry
mark which was written on the back of their laundry in small chinese
writing EOS Mm. EOS Mm. EOS We didn’t know the names we just knew the
mark EOS Mm. EOS Yeah but that was all before I knew you wasn’t it
Arnold the erm- EOS That’s right yeah. EOS the laundry. EOS Yeah. EOS
You hardly ever went did you to the laundry? EOS No I never went to
the laundry no. We- we had erm- when I was nine year old we- we moved
into a shop. We used to have a shop in . My mother’s ran the shop. It
was erm- EOS Mm. EOS ladies and children’s wear shop. EOS Oh ok. EOS
We had a few different sidelines as well. And my mother used to work
six days a week in that. EOS Yeah. EOS Me dad was an engineer so he
went out to work where he used to help on a Saturday. EOS **inc** EOS
Yes love. EOS And erm when we were there for six years altogether and
erm one of the things I think I’ve mentioned this to Barney before
that always sticks in my mind that was on- on a Saturday because my
mother was still working in the shop- EOS Yeah. EOS I used to go to
the local chip shop for lunch and I used to get three lots of fish and
chips for half a crown in total. Now half a crown was twelve and a
half pence. So that just shows how prices have changed. EOS Yeah. EOS
But erm one of the best things about living there was the fact that we
had a double cellar and in the cellar we used to have a- a shooting
range. EOS Wow. EOS With an air rifle. EOS Erm and my dad would set up
so you could- you could- you could put targets- three targets in at
one end- EOS Yeah. EOS and th- and then shoot down this little- EOS
walled area and erm- EOS we also used to do photography as well in the
cellar. We used to d- do our own developing and printing and erm cos
we had running water in this cellar. We had a sink in the corner so-
so erm yeah good times yeah. But it- EOS Yeah we used to do some of
that didn’t we at- EOS We did that in erm- EOS in my bedroom. EOS in-
in the attic didn’t we. EOS Yeah in the attic but there was no running
water there. EOS No. EOS Mm. EOS I don’t know how we coped really. EOS
Yeah. EOS We did everything in my bedroom. EOS Right. EOS There was a
snooker table. EOS Really? EOS Yeah and we did the photography on top
of the snooker table. EOS That’s right. EOS And when we weren’t doing
the photography we were playing snooker. And somehow we managed to fit
my bed at the other end. EOS Yeah. It was a big s- a big attic. EOS
Yeah. EOS That was a big attic bedroom. And it wasn’t a small snooker
table it was a three quarter size snooker table. EOS Really? EOS Yeah.
EOS Yeah. EOS It was too big for a normal house and I gave it to erm a
youth club- EOS Mm. EOS in and erm unfortunately it closed down soon
afterwards didn’t it. EOS Oh no . EOS Mm mm. EOS And I don’t know what
happened to that table. EOS Mm. EOS Erm todays prices it was probably
worth about five, six hundred pounds. EOS Mm. EOS Wow. EOS But nobody
wanted it cos nobody had room for it. Sign of the times. EOS taken my
glasses away. I know it’s big print. EOS Are they yours? EOS Mm? It’s
alright. EOS Shall- EOS I can read just fine. EOS shall we move on to
another- EOS Yeah. EOS question? EOS Would you like some water? I’ll
just get some. EOS Do you want me to- I can get you some if you like.
EOS Will you? **inc** EOS Yeah. EOS We’ll carry on talking. EOS
Please. EOS Where are the glasses? EOS Ah. Ask she’ll know. EOS Oh ok.
EOS So- EOS Were there a lot of kids to play with when you were
growing up? EOS There was when I- when I lived in before we moved to
the shop. Erm there were quite a few kids in the street and they- EOS
Mm. EOS erm all similar aged. Erm and because it was a cul-de-sac it
had a sort of a- a- it opened out and there was a- a- a good play area
for kids but we had all the fields at the back as well. EOS And erm
yeah there were quite of- quite a number of erm both bl- boys and
girls to play with. EOS Yeah yeah. EOS Erm I was saying the age
difference probably was three or four years older than me to three or
four years younger than me. So lots of kids. EOS Yeah I was the same.
We had lots of kids when I was at junior school because in those days
most kids went to school near where they lived. EOS Yeah yeah. EOS
Nobody went to school by car. EOS No. EOS I don’t know how we managed.
Thank you. EOS Thank you. EOS You get a waitress service as well. EOS
You got some- can I have one of those mats? EOS Oh yeah. EOS Thank
you. EOS Can I just say when we went to junior school all the kids
lived near the school. EOS Yeah. EOS Nobody ever went to school in a
car. EOS Not even the teachers. EOS Really? EOS They didn’t have cars
did they. Oh I think maybe the headmaster did. EOS Maybe I think b- by
the time we went to grammar school they probably did- EOS Yeah.
Headmaster had one. EOS but I don’t remember any of the- any of the
teachers at junior school having- EOS No EOS cars at all. But at
grammar school they used to park just behind- well- well I went to
school. There’s- I did three years at school erm before I moved to
where Barney was. EOS Oh ok. EOS Erm travelling from the shop in was
about four miles to school from there and there were probably three or
four teachers had cars in those days. EOS Mm. EOS And one of the- one
of the erm- the thing that everybody envied was my cousin. He was in
the sixth form when I started. EOS And he had a motorbike and he used
to park this motorbike in the- in the little- there was a little
extension to the playground where the teachers- EOS parked their cars.
And he used to erm leave his bike there and I was the envy of the
other kids when I got a lift home with him. EOS Yeah. EOS Yeah. We had
a g- EOS Cause there were no crash helmets in those- you just got on
the back and went didn’t you. EOS Yeah there were always a couple of
guys at school had motorbikes and they were always the ones that had
girlfriends and erm- EOS Yeah. EOS They’d imaged themselves on James
Dean and erm- EOS Mm. EOS Tony Curtis- EOS Mm. EOS who you might’ve
heard of. EOS Yeah. EOS And they were always the rebels who left
school with no O-levels and erm- EOS **inc** EOS Yeah. EOS but lots of
girlfriends. EOS yeah. EOS Lots of reputation behind them- EOS Mm. EOS
which they c- couldn’t put on theirs CVs . EOS But at junior school
lots of kids to play with. Erm- EOS Mm. EOS Out- out playing everyday.
Erm I don’t think our parents had any fears about us going out and s-
being out. EOS No no. EOS Erm- EOS When we lived at the shop in there
was just down the lane was a park with swings and- and roundabouts
and- EOS Yeah. EOS sliding and erm we used to spend all day there
sometimes you know you- you didn’t w- h- worry about your kids being
out. EOS No. EOS Never heard of paedophiles and erm- EOS Well it was a
word that hadn’t been invented I don’t think. EOS Erm I don’t think it
had no and- EOS Erm we had one in Eccles who I now realise was a
paedophile. EOS Yeah. EOS Everyone knew him so you just avoided him.
EOS He was called . EOS Yeah. EOS and he wore a big fedora- EOS Yeah.
EOS hat. EOS Keep it anonymous. EOS Yeah. EOS Yeah I’ll not tell you
his surname. EOS His surname. EOS And he wore a big long mac and great
big boots. He was straight off a Lowry. Erm and he had a most horrible
face and sometimes you could walk down towards - EOS Mm. EOS and you’d
see him on the aquaduct. You could- his image was there. So y- you now
had to decide did you wait for your mate before you went over the
bridge to go to church- EOS or did you just wait ‘til he was looking
the other way and run like hell. EOS Well that’s how we coped with
paedophilia in those days. Just avoiding EOS I know. EOS I never got
that close to him. I don’t re- EOS Oh . EOS I don’t remember what he
looked like . EOS Oh I- I go- EOS I think he was just a legend when I
went to- EOS when I got to . EOS I got too close to his brother one
day erm- there was a guy who was in our year at grammar school . Do
you remember ? EOS Yeah yeah. EOS Oh he lived near and he had a mad
brother. And if people used to hang about outside their house he’d
open the window and he used to have a jerry under the bed. EOS A wee
pot or whatever . And he used to empty it. EOS oh no. EOS So- over
whoever was standing outside his house. EOS . EOS Aye that was . EOS
Mm. EOS But we were lucky where we lived because there were lots of
fields nearby. EOS Yeah. EOS Erm didn’t exist and you were soon going
toward EOS mm EOS and round there there were lots and lots of fields
where you could just enjoy yourself and- EOS Yeah. EOS go home with
jam jars full of newts and tadpoles and erm- EOS Tha- that’s right and
there was- EOS and there was no traffic on the roads. There was- EOS
No. EOS there were very few cars so you- you- there was danger of
crossing main roads and- mm- EOS No you could go on your bike
anywhere. EOS Yeah. EOS I mean regular bike trips were- EOS Mm. EOS
places like Lymm, Pickmere. EOS Mm. EOS And if you were really fit
Chester or Southport. EOS Southport even. EOS Really? EOS Mm. EOS Mind
you I did Chester once and I was so tired when I got there. EOS not
surprised. EOS Had my- had my sandwiches bottle of pop., and I said
‘we’d better get off’ . EOS ‘If I stay much longer I’ll fall asleep
and I’ll never get home’. Ah- it seems to take forever in a car now.
EOS It does- EOS Mm. EOS It takes- it seems to take longer in a car
than it used to on the bike. EOS It’s- so does Southport. EOS I’m
sure. Used to- we always used to reckon Southport was thirty miles
but- EOS I’m sure it’s- it- it’s the road system. Must be the road
system these days it’s- it’s nearer forty- EOS Mm. EOS you know. EOS
Yeah. EOS I noticed one of the questions here says did you ever get
hurlt- hurt whilst playing when you were a kid? I remember breaking my
arm once. EOS Oh. EOS We used to have- in our garden we used to have
a- a six foot wall at the back. Drop down. And we used to swing on a
s- on a washing line- EOS out and drop into the garden. EOS Yeah. EOS
And my f- ankle got tangled up in the rope. EOS Oh no. EOS So I swung
out and my ankle stayed where it was- EOS Oh. EOS Ah. EOS and I went
down and I broke my arm. That’s erm- I’ve only had three breaks in my
life and that was the first one. **inc** EOS I’ve- I’ve never had a
break. EOS Haven’t you? EOS No. EOS Yeah. EOS Yeah. EOS Mind you I’ve
never played rugby and you have. EOS My only- I’ve only had one break
playing rugby and that was this erm metatarsal but erm I broke my
ankle playing soccer- EOS Oh. EOS when I was about eighteen, seventeen
perhaps. Mm. EOS Yeah the only visit I had to erm casualty as we used
to call it not accident and emergency was when I fell off a swing.
Must’ve been about nine, ten and there was a little bit of competition
going on to see who could do the most daring things on the swing. EOS
Like jump off while it was still in the air and not using your hands
and just s- sticking with it and I got to the back swing and just fell
off chin first. EOS oh no. EOS Mm. EOS Yes it was that scar. EOS Still
got a scar? EOS Oh yeah. EOS Yeah. EOS Yeah. EOS So I went home. Mum
took me to casualty and the nurse s- said ‘Oh well that’s one way to
lose a bit of fat isn’t it’ EOS Mm mm. EOS then she just got her
scissors out and cut the excess fat off and stitched it up. EOS
**inc** EOS Done and dusted. No local. Erm so that was swinging. Erm-
Yeah, the only other time in casualty, was erm three years ago when I
fell. Tripped over - EOS Oh aye you did yeah. EOS the dog. EOS Oh. EOS
I nearly lost me thumb and I had to have- EOS Wow. EOS they couldn’t
count the stitches. Well I couldn’t. I just got fed up of trying to
keep count. It was all round here as far as there. EOS Oh yeah. EOS I
was lucky that was around and erm she wrapped a towel around it. Put
it in the air. EOS Mm. EOS And she drove me to hospital. And it was
the first time she’d driven that car. EOS ‘I’ve never driven it
before’. But you’ll soon learn. EOS How are we doing for time ? EOS
Erm twenty one minutes. EOS Twenty- oh- EOS Gone. EOS ne- ne- EOS
**inc** EOS Shall we mo- shall we move on? EOS nearly- nearly half
term. Yes lets move on. EOS It’s all about school and we’ve t- EOS Oh
we done- EOS we’ve touched on school. EOS touch- touched on school and
erm- what have we got there scholarsh-? EOS Right. EOS Holdays? EOS No
where did you go to school it says. EOS Where did you go to school. Oh
here right. EOS That one. EOS That one EOS Mm hmm. EOS Mm hmm. EOS
Well I started at school. EOS for short. Erm was a victorian
philanthropist who did things like building hospitals and schools. EOS
Oh ok. EOS And he built one in for the erm Church of England children
who lived in . There was already a Church of England school there
attached to the church- EOS Mm. EOS called - but it was the other side
of . EOS Oh ok. EOS And very few lived on that side . EOS Most of the
kids lived on the side. And that’s probably one reason why he sited it
where he did in erm- in . EOS And I should think the bridge was
probably closed a lot more in those days as well than it is- it is
today- EOS Oh it’s very busy traffic yeah. EOS cause there was a lot
of traffic up and down- EOS Yeah. EOS the ship canal- EOS I bet it was
opened and closed every hour. EOS to the docks. EOS Mm. EOS So- EOS
Yeah. EOS There was a- always queues. EOS Yeah so- EOS I remember
queues when I first started driving every time I tried to cross
bridge. EOS Really? EOS Yeah. EOS Went there from five ‘til- five
years ‘til I was ten and then ‘til I was seventeen. Seven years there.
EOS Mm. I started at school in erm or on the border I think which was
just a- a standard state school. Quite big classes in those days
about- I think I remember there were forty eight kids in the class.
EOS Wow. EOS Erm and there were- it was quite a big school because
there were four streams A, B, C, and D in the secondary school and we
erm- EOS tended t- to have just one teacher for all the lessons. EOS
Yeah. EOS Erm and I remember that starting in the second year at
junior school and the- the teacher came in- our form teacher and
started writing on the board in real writing. And none of us had
learnt real writing before that time- EOS Really? EOS so he realised
he had to stop and teach us how to do real writing- EOS before he
could teach us anything else. EOS Gosh. EOS So that’s- that’s the- the
time we learnt it. And then in the fourth year we all took our eleven
plus t- to g- see if we could go to grammar schools. EOS Mm. EOS And
out of the school- out of the year there were twelve people passed
their eleven plus. EOS Wow. EOS And I was one of them and I went to
grammar school. EOS And erm touching on one of these questions here.
First day at- at school at school. There was an initiation ceremony
and between two sets of steps and the school there was a like erm a-
a- the- the bank went down and then there was like a- a gully which
was about three foot wide and three foot deep. Erm and probably ten
yards wide at the very most and all the first year kids were thrown
into that- EOS Oh no EOS on the first day. EOS So there were probably
fifty or sixty kids crammed into this thing. EOS And if you ever- EOS
if you tried to get out you got thrown back in- EOS bodily. EOS Was it
that- EOS And that was called a monkey run. EOS Was that an all boys
school- EOS No no no no- EOS or was it mixed? EOS that was- it was
mixed but it was segregated playgrounds of course. EOS Yeah yeah we
had that. EOS Yeah it was mixed yeah. EOS Yeah. EOS Yeah. That erm- so
that was- EOS Yeah w- w- we had it like that. EOS the monkey run.
Everybody in brand new school uniforms- EOS Yeah. EOS got thrown in
the dirt you know. The first day. EOS Well I suppose ours was a
cleansing our i- initiation ceremony. You had your head put in the
toilet and the toilet flushed. EOS flushed EOS Mm. EOS I think a lot
of headmasters in those days tried to run their schools along public
school lines. EOS Mm. EOS And erm they must have knew- known these
intiation ceremonies were going on- EOS Yeah. EOS Oh yeah yeah. EOS
and it were just ‘part of school life old chap’. EOS Mm. EOS You know
. EOS Yeah. EOS Erm cos I presume you had to wear a school cap did
you? EOS We had to wear a school cap at all times on the way to
school- EOS Yeah. EOS on the way home from school, lunchtimes if you
went out. Although you weren’t generally allowed out of school unless
you were going home for lunch. EOS Yeah then you had to have written
permission for that didn’t you. EOS Yeah yeah. Well I- I once got erm
into trouble for going out of school at lunchtime. We used- we used-
we used- EOS Well I did. It was when I went out with you to the local
café . EOS Yeah. EOS **inc** EOS But this was when I was at - EOS Had
a quick pepsi and a woodbine . EOS We got- we got caned. Two of us
went out to buy a bottle of sauce to have with our school dinner. EOS
And we were on second sitting and we got caught. Called before the
headmaster and we got caned for erm going out of school at lunchtime.
EOS Oh no. EOS what kind of sauce was it? EOS OK . EOS OK . EOS . EOS
Or Daddies I’m not sure. One or the other. EOS Yeah yeah . EOS Did you
have to wear short trousers? EOS No we- we- we weren’t obliged to wear
short trousers. I wore long trousers in the first year. EOS Oh. We
were erm- EOS But no we could wear long trousers. EOS third year
before we could wear long trousers. EOS Mm. EOS In fact- EOS When I
joined school in the forth year there were still some of the lads- EOS
Yeah. EOS wearing short trousers- EOS really? EOS in the forth year
and that would’ve been what age fifteen, sixteen? EOS Fifteen,
sixteen. EOS Yeah. EOS Yeah well if the parents still thought ‘those
shorts still fit’- EOS Yeah . EOS I’m not buying you long trousers
just bec- EOS Waste of money. EOS Yeah waste of money. EOS Mm. EOS Yes
it was erm- the girls wore gym slips in the winter and dresses in the
summer. EOS Mm. EOS Which they don’t seem to do now do they. EOS No.
EOS No. EOS That’s right they- that was erm- that was the same at .
The girls had a uniform dress for the summer- EOS Yeah yeah. EOS for
the summer term. And the other two terms they had to wear gym slips up
to a certain age and then it was skirts and blouses wasn’t it after a
certain age and ties- EOS Oh yes after y- about forth year. Yeah. EOS
Yeah. White blouses. EOS Yeah I’ve- I’ve got one of those old school
photographs that’s about a yard long- EOS or two yards long. And you
can see all the different uniform styles- EOS Yeah. EOS according to
their ages on that. EOS Show that to actually- EOS Yeah. EOS It’s
quite interesting- EOS Mm. EOS cause I- I think we both- EOS Did you
have them taken in your school? EOS Yeah. EOS Yeah **inc** the long
ones. EOS Yeah. I think we’re both on that one aren’t we? EOS I think
we are yeah. EOS Is that the fifty nine one- fifty eight one? EOS
Fifty eight, fifty nine something like that yeah. EOS Fifty eight
yeah. Yeah. EOS Yeah. You’re on the back row. EOS I was showing the
other night. EOS Were you? . EOS Yeah came across it. Yeah. EOS Mm.
EOS Yes so we both remember our first days at school then. EOS Yeah.
EOS I- I- my initiation was easy because I knew some of the lads in
the second year and erm they did me a favour and erm made sure I
didn’t get too much of a ducking in the toilets . EOS Yeah. EOS They
wanted me to play football in their team as well. EOS I spent my life-
EOS I’ve- EOS school life being favoured and because I had a certain
amount of what most people thought was a little bit of talent at
football. EOS Mm. EOS And erm it was misguided. This lad, cricket I
was selected for the school cricket team. And I was still in shorts
and it was ridiculous going out to play cricket in shorts. EOS So my
mum had to take me to the co-op in Eccles to buy me some white long
trousers to play cricket. EOS And I never got a bat or a bowl. I
must’ve been a pretty good fielder . EOS Mm. We used to erm- well we
both played for the same under fifteens- EOS Oh yeah yeah. EOS
football team. was captain who we still see occassionally. EOS Mm. EOS
Mm. EOS And erm Barney was vice captain and I’d just joined the school
in the fourth year. And played in one or two games classes and they
picked me to play on the under fifteens team. EOS Right. EOS So we’ve
got a photograph of that somewhere. EOS We have. Yeah. EOS Was the
team good? EOS We played in- and then we played e- for the school team
didn’t we the following year. EOS Yeah yeah. EOS And the erm- the full
team. But we were both quite keen on erm athletics and- and sports as
well. EOS Yeah. EOS I never played cricket very much but erm- EOS I
used to join in all the erm different sports day activities. EOS Yeah
I was erm junior athletics champion. Me and , - EOS That were before
erm- EOS Before you joined wasn’t it. EOS oh yeah cos you were a year-
no it’s probably the year I joined. But you were in- you were a year
younger than me. EOS Yeah. EOS So you were still in junior school
weren’t you. EOS Well I w- I was- EOS When- EOS in the second year.
EOS Oh is- it was when you were in second year was it. EOS Yeah yeah.
EOS Oh. EOS Yeah I think to get- EOS Cause I- EOS junior you had to be
under thirteen. EOS Did you yeah. EOS Yeah. EOS Cause I came second to
in the erm middle school. EOS Mm. EOS Erm Rex Ludorum they used to
call it. EOS Yeah. EOS King of the games. EOS Mm . EOS I came- I came
second and came third. Much to his annoyance. EOS . EOS He’d been
bragging the year before- EOS that he was gonna win it. EOS Oh . EOS
what was the leading girl called? If the leading man was Rex or
Victor- Victor Ludorum wasn’t it- the erm the men or the- EOS Was it
Victor a- EOS Victor vic- EOS at . It was Rex at . EOS Was it? Erm it
was Victor at . EOS Victor at . Victor Ludorum. EOS So- EOS I don’t
know what the girl got called. EOS No I only did Latin for one year.
EOS Don’t know. Didn’t- I didn’t know any girls called Victor. EOS
Victoria. EOS Victorlia- Victoria Ludarum- Ludorum EOS Oh blimey. No
no- EOS I don’t know what’s the female- EOS that would- that would
stay- EOS what’s the female adjec- EOS that would stay no Ludorum. EOS
W- Ludorum would be the same. EOS Th- that would- that wouldn’t- that
wouldn’t be sexed. EOS You don’t change it like in French from petit
to petite. EOS No it’s- that- that Ludorum means ‘of the games’
doesn’t it? EOS Yeah. EOS Mm. EOS So it could’ve been erm- EOS Yeah
Victoria Ludorum . EOS Vict- could’ve been Victris or some- Victrix.
EOS Victrix or something like that I suppose. EOS Yeah. EOS Anyway.
EOS . EOS Hello. EOS from Mercedes Benz. EOS Erm could I give him a
ring back if you get his number? Please EOS How long? EOS Oh ab-
another half an hour at least. EOS Mm. EOS They always say ‘are you
happy with your car?’ and I think yeah . EOS Yes, music music. We did
a lot music together didn’t we. School choir- EOS Well yeah we were
in- EOS at gammar school. EOS the school choir and then- EOS School
orchestra. EOS No I wasn’t in the school orchestra. EOS Weren’t you?
EOS No. No I never went in the sc- well what did you play in the
school- EOS I played guitar but it- it was the cello part. EOS Oh yeah
it’s right. EOS Erm. EOS That was after I’d left I think. EOS Ah. EOS
It was when I was in the sixth form. EOS The teacher just put a few-
EOS Yeah. EOS notes down that normally a cellist would play. EOS Yeah.
EOS And I had to just plonk them out . EOS No. EOS But we erm- we
played at the school concert didn’t we. EOS Played at school- school
con- EOS Our school dance. EOS school dance yeah. As a group. EOS Mm.
EOS At the hop. EOS Yeah. Yeah we- EOS Did we call them dances or did
we- we didn’t call them hops or anything? EOS No no no no. It was the
school dance. Yeah- EOS Erm. EOS at erm- we were the first group ever-
EOS Yeah. EOS to play at a school dance. EOS Oh. EOS **inc** EOS That
was in nineteen fifty eight. Christmas dance. EOS Aye. And what did
you- EOS I can even remember what songs we played . EOS What you sang
. Go- w- w- what songs did you play? EOS It was erm- I sang erm Tom
Dooley and erm what was the other one. Flip side of it. What was it
called? EOS Oh. EOS Run a- rock my soul. EOS Rock my soul in the bosom
of- EOS And you sang- EOS I sang- EOS Cliff Richard’s- EOS Travelling
Light EOS Travelling Light. Mm. EOS Yeah. Erm- EOS And we’re still
practising. EOS still can’t play. But I think we did- did we just do
that one year? EOS Yeah yeah. EOS Did they ask us back? EOS Aw EOS
Well I w- well I left. EOS You left of course yeah. EOS I left that
Christmas. EOS That’s why EOS Yeah w- yeah I started work. Yeah. EOS
Yeah w- we went on to bigger- bigger and better venues after school.
EOS Mm. EOS I- Eccles town hall was our last appearance. was the first
appearance. EOS Yeah. And then he went off to university so we split
up then. EOS Oh right. EOS Yeah erm- EOS Mm. EOS and him and the lead
guitarist and the drummer they prefered to buy cars and motorbikes and
things instead of amplification. EOS Mm. EOS Erm- EOS But we didn’t-
no- not- no- EOS but we’d have- we wouldn’t have been able- w- we had
amplification of such. EOS As such- yeah. Of a sort. EOS We had
microphones sellotaped- EOS Yeah. EOS to the back of our guitars. EOS
leading into reel to reel tape recorders. EOS Wow. EOS So it was
really not loud at all EOS No EOS Mm. Oh it w- it was a treat to have
played at a venue where they had a microphone wasn’t it- EOS Oh aye
they had their own PA system. EOS because quite a few of them didn’t.
EOS Really? EOS So there were no mic- no amplification in some of
them. EOS No. EOS The school had a- a microphone didn’t they. EOS
Yeah. EOS And the erm- certainly Eccles town hall did. EOS Yeah and
Urmston baths. EOS Mm. Mm. EOS Urmston baths is- do you remember when
it was the erm circular one? EOS Is that when it was the Curzon? EOS
Opposite the Curzon. EOS Mm. I- my dad’s told me about it. EOS Yeah,
well they used to have dances there. EOS Oh ok. EOS They used to put
boards over the- the pool EOS and we played there once at Urmston and
Flixton junior football league’s presentation evening. EOS Oh ok. EOS
We sounded good with the echoes and- EOS Oh yeah yeah the echoes. EOS
the water and- EOS Mm. EOS the roof top. And it was a complete dome at
the top made out of glass and one year I think it was s- let me see
was about six or seven. It’d have been about nineteen eighty. We had
in- tremendous hale stones. Bigger than golf balls. EOS Wow. EOS And
they went right through the roof of Urmston baths. EOS Oh. EOS And of
course all the glass followed and all the tiles were damaged and- EOS
the council said it’s erm not economical to repair. So they knocked it
down. EOS Oh is that why? EOS Yeah- EOS Oh I didn’t know that. EOS and
it was a magnificent building. Th- EOS I’ve seen a picture of- mm. EOS
they had diving boards and erm nice café sauna. Did you ever go? Erm-
EOS I think I probably just went the odd time. EOS Yeah. EOS But I
used to when I was younger and we used to go from school. We were
taught to swim from school went to . EOS Yeah we went to - EOS And
erm- EOS from junior school. EOS Yeah- EOS But at grammar school there
was no swimming at all was there. EOS that was- that was quite- and .
I- I went to a few times. I lot of my youth I spent in the scouts and
the sea scouts based at from being about thirteen year old- EOS Mm.
EOS up to it was probably about twenty six when I packed it in
altogether . EOS What we used to do spend a load of time goin away
camping and- EOS Oh yeah. EOS Yeah. But erm- EOS Well my grandad
wouldn’t allow me to go in the scouts. He didn’t believe in it. EOS
Really? EOS Oh. EOS And grandad’s word was gospel. EOS Mm. EOS He said
it’s like Hitler youth. EOS Mm. EOS He thought it was an army for
kids. EOS Mm. EOS But being he wanted to be very, very English and tow
the line. So Sundays we weren’t allowed to play out. We were not
forced but highly encouraged to go to church. EOS Yeah. EOS So
eventually I joined the church choir at about the age of seven or
eight. So that meant you soon got promotion cos there weren’t many
boys in the choir. I think there were four of us. You soon got
promotion to alter boy. EOS Yeah. EOS And then after confirmation you
had to go to the early morning mass. You took it in turns at going to
eight o’clock or nine o’clock. Then you were singing at eleven o’clock
mattins. You had to go to Sunday school at two o’clock . EOS And then
six thirty evensong. EOS Busy day . EOS So busy day. So you didn’t
have- really have time to play out on a Sunday. EOS Mm. EOS Yeah erm.
EOS Well everybody went to Sunday school in those days- EOS Yeah. EOS
but it was- it was only once for me. There was no choir cos it was a
little mission church down in . EOS Ah. Well the- the- the choir was
the undoing of the church in many ways. Because we got a little bit
beyond our station. We started singing very high brow stuff like- EOS
Mm mm. EOS Handel’s Messiah and- EOS Mm. EOS we had to have erm choral
communion every first Sunday in the month. EOS And the congregation
got a bit fed up with it. EOS Oh ok. EOS Cause it wasn’t the sort of
stuff where you could join in the chorus even . EOS No no no. EOS Yeah
. EOS Yeah. EOS And the c- congregation dwindled until there were more
people in the choir than in the congregation. EOS Oh. EOS And the erm
th- the vicar wasn’t very dynamic and his wife was always a little bit
tipsy. EOS She used to come in and stagger down the aisle half way-
EOS half way through the service. EOS Mm. EOS Her hair all over the
place . EOS So they knocked it down. And erm the school still remains
school. EOS Mm. EOS You know where I mean? On one side on the- EOS No.
EOS . EOS Oh yeah. EOS Yeah the little school house there. EOS Yeah.
EOS Erm that’s up for sale. EOS Mm. EOS Well the church was the other
side wasn’t it? EOS The church has gone. EOS Yeah EOS Yeah the church
was the other side of the school. EOS Yeah. EOS That’s been flattened.
EOS Mm. EOS My sister got married there. Erm I think she was the last
one ever to get married there. Erm- EOS Who ? EOS . EOS . EOS Yeah.
EOS Mm. EOS Yeah so I was an usher at that wedding and I was a very
poor student as well. EOS Oh . EOS And I couldn’t possibly have worn
me best suit cos it didn’t look very best at all. EOS So I went to C
and A and all I could afford was one that was five pounds fifteen
shillings. EOS It looked really smart and it lasted for the wedding.
And then about a week later I was out in the rain with it and it’s
like just falling apart. EOS It was. It was glued. It wasn’t stitched.
EOS Oh no. EOS So it was an expensive suit really considering I only
wore it twice- EOS before I had to throw it away. EOS Yeah. EOS erm-