one, two, three EOS erm, two sisters, one brother EOS yeah, well, Mum
got with a new step-dad didn’t she, and after about a month or so she
was pregnant so EOS but **anon**, she’s four EOS think she’s four EOS
yeah it was, when was that? About eight years ago? was you in Salford
Scouts or was it just explorers? Was in Salford Scouts as well?
hundredth, ah, you were the enemy EOS **anon**, **anon**, and **anon**
EOS he’s four years younger than me, so he’s EOS oh no, is it
nineteen, might- it’s nineteen, sorry EOS don’t even see him anymore,
he’s w- he’s like a bit emo, he’s EOS big hole in his ear, his hair’s
a mess EOS he looks like a skunk actually cos he’s dyed the ends
blonde at some EOS power rangers? oh dear EOS yeah, I think you said
you went to try and sell it off EOS probably saw you down the street,
‘oh, he’s trying to sell me summet’ EOS ahh don’t know how many
brothers and sisters you got, I think, I didn’t know you had- oh yeah,
I did I knew you had a brother, he’s a younger brother isn’t he? your
sister older than you? oh, where’s he going? what, he’s just invited
his mates? is he still doing that? oh right, okay EOS Jee- yeah, I
remember you saying that EOS he had to get the train or something EOS
yeah, you’ll it won’t you EOS well he’s had his like, first job, so
that’s the hardest bit isn’t EOS when- then you can get references EOS
whereas our **anon** useless EOS he hasn’t had a job yet he’s- well,
he said he’s applied he d- he dropped out of college EOS he w- he w-
he was at **anon** and then he dropped out of that and I think he
applied for **anon** EOS and I don’t think he went for the first day
EOS and then just, didn’t go EOS erm, he was doing Computing, he was
doing, is it Cisco, is that what you were doing? yeah, I think he was
doing that, but he said the- the teachers are EOS yeah, and then just
doing the test EOS oh right, that’s alright EOS oh my God EOS ‘I’m not
even bothering’ EOS how did you do in your Electronics? yeah, cos you
pick four four equivalent A-levels don’t you, and then drop one or
something EOS oh, that’s a shame EOS who’s your favourite high- high
school teacher then? don’t think I had one EOS I- I rarely had him
though, I had, what’s the other one called, I think she was called
**anon** or something but EOS she- I think she was only there for like
a year EOS it probably wasn’t the worst thing but he really annoyed
me, he was erm in RE he was our RE teacher, I can’t remember if it was
a woman she was- she was horrible, but EOS yeah, she complained at me
for me handwriting at some- at one week or something, and then the
next week she gave me detention cos me handwriting was still bad and
I’m like EOS yeah, oh, **anon** EOS erm my Mum grew up where my Gran
and Granddad are now EOS in, **anon** yeah, erm, my Dad grew up in
**anon** EOS yeah, but **anon**, stepdad, I think his Mum’s part
Prussian- Persian- is it East German or summet? or, on the edge of
something and then he lives- he lived in Wales, and in Liverpool EOS
and then he moved over here so he’s got the weirdest accent EOS it’s
like, he doesn’t- he went to the chippy and I was like, ‘ah, get us a
chip barm’, he went, ‘what’s a chip barm?’, ‘like, you know, barm,
with chips in it’ EOS he was like, ‘don’t have a clue what you’re on
about’ EOS I showed it him, and he went, ‘oh, that’s a chip batch’ EOS
like, what’s a batch? yeah, it’s the best meal EOS really? That’s well
weird, ah where’s your favourite chippy? I can only think of two
there’s **anon** or **anon** EOS yeah used to go there school EOS I
worked in Costa Coffee EOS nah, it wasn’t with **anon**- yeah, I was
at the Trafford Centre one EOS cos that, well, it’s like, went up to
the manager and it’s like, ‘oh, I was thinking like, I want a job,
erm, can I have an interview or something’ he’s like EOS ‘oh yeah,
just come down’, cos like I didn’t have to give my CV in or EOS I went
down, and he- he- he just went, ‘do you know what, I like you’ EOS
he’s like, ‘you can have a job’ turned out he was a raving nutter, but
EOS he, yeah, he didn’t hire anybody else on and then he had a like a
mental breakdown or something, so there’s like, only six of us who
work there, like I think the hours were something like eight ‘til ten
everyday, and then he left, and it was just like us fending EOS it was
horrendous EOS was it a Christmassy one? what was your favourite
subject, like, of all time, apart from Music EOS oh, we had- what’s he
called, that teacher, the ginger one? oh, he was quality EOS ahh, no-
no I’m thinking of a man I think he was the EOS **anon** or something,
no- he was Science wasn’t he EOS **anon**, yeah, and EOS I don’t know
who she was EOS I remember the name, but I don’t think I ever had her
EOS oh, I like, I liked the Sciencey ones but I didn’t like the
teachers EOS and I didn’t like Maths either, was like, really geeky in
it EOS oh, she was horrendous EOS we had **anon** at first, and she
just used to shout at me for just being in me bag all the time EOS
it’s just, like- it wasn’t in it, I just had it open, I was asleep on
the desk with me head in it EOS I can imagine EOS it was shocking,
wasn’t it? but we were banned from them, cos we always used to set
things on EOS no, they’re all crap EOS they just tell you rubbish,
don’t they, like if I start talking to my Gran she’ll- she just won’t
shut up EOS she’ll just carry on, she’ll get slightly on a tangent,
and then she’ll move straight onto it, and then- go in a circle well
EOS it’s really hard as well isn’t it, cos they don’t give you a break
EOS ‘hanging up now, bye’ EOS ‘me kitchen’s on fire, can I go?’, ‘no’
EOS he’s a firefighter your Dad isn’t he? my Mum’s just a bit of a
looser, eh, you know her don’t you? do you see her that often with
your job now cos, before when you were first doing in you her saw
quite a lot when she worked on **anon** didn’t you cos you did some of
the- yeah, well, she used to work at **anon** but then she moved to
**anon** round the corner so I’m not sure they do the same sort of
thing EOS she’s early so it’s nursery mainly EOS but sometimes she
does a bit of reception EOS oh, yeah, that’s where **anon** goes EOS
it’s- that’s what Seedy **anon** went to, wasn’t it EOS they’re doing
that everywhere aren’t they? I think it’s horrendous EOS some dodgy
Broughton people living here EOS did you ever- ever get hurt when you
was playing as a kid? ahh we had erm, the old Scouts, some of them
were like messing around in our house EOS cos like, legged it to the
back door to like try and lock them out, just messing about, and I ran
past the ironing board and kicked the leg of it EOS and broke me toe
EOS that was probably the worst I did, erm, I fell out a tree at one
point and cracked me elbow like, cracked the bone in it EOS ah, but, I
wasn’t that bad cos- you don’t really use it much EOS erm, well we
used to live in **anon**- yeah, erm, so there was erm, just some like-
where all the houses go round, there was like a little patch in the
middle which was just like, gravel EOS used to play in there a lot but
it’s just- it was just full of crap, like, what- bits of broken wood
with nails in it, used to go back with EOS bit of wood with a nail in
your foot EOS ahh, that’s well cool EOS yeah, Lightoaks is a lot nicer
isn’t it? it’s got its little pond in it EOS oh, I remember that,
yeah, my Granddad used to go- round the park with us, and you used to
have your stabilisers on EOS tried it with stabilisers and now I
couldn’t do it, but, like, I was like, ‘I really want to ride it
without the stabilisers’ but every time he tried I just fell off, and
then one day, one of the stabilisers fell off EOS like, on its own
accord, I was like, ‘fine’, so, he took the other one off I thought it
was pretty good EOS if you could talk to your young self now you could
say, ‘centrifugal inertia, and you can pedal faster and you’ll be
alright’ EOS I did circus skills with **anon** EOS I did a bit of that
EOS I did do boules at erm, High School EOS yeah, he was a right
weirdo EOS yeah, was pretty good actually, enjoyed that EOS I was
rubbish at it EOS there wasn’t really much to do was there EOS that’s
well good what do you think of the local people in your EOS ahh, I was
listening on the radio, I wanted to turn it off she just- there was
one that I was listening to and he- he’s like this black guy and he-
he was like, ‘so, why are you rioting’, and he went, ‘oh, it’s just
the police, I hate the police, cos they- they hate us, they can’t
stand the colour of our skin, we’re like, black and Asian and they
don’t even care about their own colour skin’, it’s like, they’re not
being racist then are they, they’re just, like you, plad EOS what’s
the point EOS have they, oh EOS they now are jobless, yeah EOS just
any excuse for them EOS I reckon that’s quality, and loose their
house, everything EOS that’s a good idea EOS pay for all the damage,
yeah EOS well, I think it’d be quite good cos it’ll get like- jail’s
like blocked up anyway EOS if you get one’s that are stuck there for
life anyway, what’s the point in them being around EOS no, I suppose
not EOS yeah, but if they do get rid of them then we’re not paying to
house them in jails as well, so it’ll make it cheaper for us EOS
should bring back the cane in schools, and let police beat everyone up
it’ll be great EOS they can’t- the police can’t do anything EOS can’t
shout at anyone without ending up in prison EOS it’s human rights and
all that crap EOS no, it’s good EOS oh, I always thought back of the
head was worse EOS I can imagine EOS I suppose they’re trying to
protect people who are constantly abused EOS if they’re gonna be
constantly abused then they’re just gonna be constantly- like, putting
a rule in saying ‘you can’t hit your kids’ isn’t gonna stop them EOS
erm, I dunno, my Mum was more of a slob than us, so it wasn’t too bad,
but you know what my Mum’s like, she’s she only did like, the pots and
the tea every now and again, it didn’t really matter to be honest, we
were more we all did our bit and that EOS you have to do anything? ah,
my Mum was pretty cool with all that, I think she did most of it EOS
think she just erm, made us clean our rooms, and any mess that we left
out she, like, we cleaned that up EOS but she did the rest EOS ‘sort
it out’ EOS that’s quite good that EOS mine would be if **anon**
wasn’t in it all the time EOS she’s so messy EOS yeah, I live at me
own in **anon** at the moment, and it’s just bliss, it’s just like,
nobody makes a mess EOS and then, if I make a mess I clean it up like
pretty much straight away anyway so EOS I do miss **anon** like but
she comes round and visits me, and I’m round here more than anything,
I think EOS yeah, it’s alright, you can- like, it looks like there’s a
really, really clean patch just on this wheel arch where I managed to
scrape it up the wall EOS and it’s just got a different coloured paint
on at the moment EOS oh it’s only like a little scratch, but, yeah,
it’s alright EOS I’ve had a erm, just had me car insurance EOS but I
pay it in one EOS it was well, the renewal price was one, six then
erm, I changed to Admiral for like an ultra low mileage EOS so, and
then it got it down to one, four, and then I put **anon** on it, and
it went- knocked it down to one three I was like EOS that’s brill, but
they’ve now got a tracker in it to check my mileage EOS I’ve got it on
it, yeah but it’s- all they do is just check how many miles you do in
the year, and if you go over then you gotta pay a premium cos I said
I’ll only do five thousand miles EOS which is why it went cheaper but
if my car ever gets stolen or anything I can like phone them up and
say, ‘can you just- my car’s been stolen can you-’ EOS yeah, turn the
tracker on EOS and then they give it all to the police, and the police
go and find EOS ahh, have you not like, dropped it or anything yet, I
can’t see any cracks actually EOS has it not EOS I think you did EOS
oh, you were going past weren’t you? ‘I’m on a bike’ EOS I really want
a motorbike now, what? I have but it’s EOS yeah, probably until like,
we get our own place and that, cos EOS I could put it in the back
garden at the moment, but EOS it’s cost as well EOS if I could get rid
of my car then I would, but I can’t for EOS my tax is nearly that,
road tax what was your road- oh, it’s about two hundred and fifty five
I think EOS it’s probably about five or something- don’t laugh, it’s
not funny EOS no, it is well worth it, I would do it, but I need a car
to get EOS yeah wait ‘til snow comes in winter- a cheap one, insure it
for a month or something? get on **anon** EOS oh, that’s good EOS I
can imagine **anon** on a motorbike EOS get her a sidecar for yours