 No right channel between 4.27 and 5.05 EOS count to five EOS yep,
one, two, three, four, five EOS yep EOS one, two, three, four, five
EOS yep, that’s fine EOS Okay. EOS Off you go EOS So Bruce **anon**
where are- where are your parents from? EOS Right. That’s an
interesting one. EOS mm, it is! EOS My mum was born **anon**. My dad
was born in **anon**, which is Manchester. But his parents- er his
father was from **anon**, and his mother was from **anon**. EOS Mm
that’s interesting isn’t it? EOS Yeah, so my father was sent back to
**anon** when he was a boy. And he could speak **anon** fluently. Er,
**anon**. EOS wow EOS Wow. EOS yeah and then what about- EOS and then-
EOS how did he meet your mum then? EOS It was when he went back to
**anon**. EOS To learn English? EOS No to learn **anon**. EOS To
learn- sorry to learn **anon**. EOS Yes. EOS So they came back, I
think me mum was nineteen. EOS aww EOS And it was before the days of
air travel. So they came on a boat. EOS aww EOS To Liverpool, is that
right? Am I right that they were-? EOS That’s where they would have
landed, no, but the family had moved to Manchester by then. It was me
Granddad who-. EOS But didn’t they start off in Liverpool? EOS Yeah
that was my Granddad, but then he came to Manchester. EOS you’re
Granddad, right, yeah. EOS Cos even in those days it was a little bit
rough, EOS I think, in- in Liverpool . EOS Really? EOS Yeah so he came
to Manchester, and was first in **anon**, before they moved to
**anon**. EOS Right, hmm. EOS And that sort of diagonal side to
Manchester really. EOS Gosh EOS Yeah, so what about your parents? EOS
Well mine are very boring compared to that. EOS aww, EOS They’re
actually erm, both from **anon**, which is now classed as Salford. And
erm interestingly, erm, certainly my mother erm, grew up close to your
brothers and sisters. EOS Yeah. EOS In **anon**. EOS mm EOS Just- ju-
. EOS Just down the road actually. EOS From- in a place called
**anon**. EOS Well, **anon**. EOS Well **anon** and then **anon**.
Well actually my father actually was probably more from **anon**. EOS
Yes. EOS Wasn’t he, really? So me mum and dad actually lived fairly
close to each other. But went to different schools, there’s seven
years between them, so erm- they didn’t really meet up until er- I
think me mum was in her early twenties then. Although they only-
didn’t really live that far down the road from each other. EOS yeah
EOS Erm but getting back to my mum, erm. EOS What it was with my
husband’s family, er they owned erm, **anon**, in- EOS It wasn’t a
laundrette, a laundry EOS Well a laundry, sorry EOS Get the words
right. In **anon** and- EOS It was laundrettes what put them out of
business EOS Yeah it was the laundrettes that put the- yeah so the
laundry- EOS oh, no EOS so all- everything was hand washed in this-
EOS ooh EOS and erm- and that’s- and they were very erm- had a good
reputation. And so obviously my mum knew about the laundry, don’t know
whether she used it or not. EOS Well she went to the same school as my
elder brothers and-. EOS Yeah. EOS Well, me older brother and sisters.
EOS Yeah EOS So they all knew each other. EOS yeah, they were quite-
quite a well-known family, **anon**. Because I think- are we the only
**anon** family there? At the time? EOS Erm p- probably the first. EOS
Yeah. EOS There was another family further into **anon**. EOS Yeah.
EOS but that was bit later. EOS But sort of in that vicinity, they
were probably the only ones. EOS Yeah. EOS So- and with you having
that laundry, erm-. EOS And yeah, getting back to my mum, she went to
school with- was she the year below **anon**? Or above **anon**? I
think she was a year above **anon**. EOS A little bit older than
**anon**. EOS She was in the year above **anon** and erm-. EOS And I
think your Auntie **anon** was a little bit younger than **anon**. EOS
mm EOS Yeah. So me mum’s sister was at school with- she went to
**anon**- no she didn’t did she? EOS Well they all went to the same
junior school. No right channel EOS They went to the pri- the same-
yeah, she went- yeah but me nan sent her to **anon**, so she went
there EOS Yeah and **anon** did. EOS So there’s quite a lot of er
family links. EOS Yeah. EOS And when I met Bruce **anon**, my husband,
EOS erm when I told my mum I was going out with this lad and said,
‘he’s part **anon**’ and he- he knows you from **anon**, my mum said,
‘oh I wonder if it’s the **anon**- one of the **anon**? Oh crikey!
Well I hope so cos they’re such a lovely family.’ EOS aww EOS And I
said, ‘oh right okay, well, I’ll ask him what his surname is,’ cos I
think I’d only been on one date with him, EOS so I didn’t know what
his surname was. And as it turns out it was **anon**. And so then erm-
he was introduced. EOS Everything was okay then. EOS yeah EOS
Everything was fine, and then when Bruce’s **anon** mum found out my-
the origins of my family, EOS yeah EOS and I was one of **anon** erm
granddaughters. EOS Lovely family. EOS ooh, lovely family, so
everybody was happy. EOS oh, that’s good EOS yeah EOS aww. Right
channel resumes EOS Right, so erm have you lived any- . EOS No, this
is a good one for you. EOS go on then! EOS Did you move house at all
when you were younger? And what memories do you have of this? EOS Why-
why’s that a good one? EOS You moved a few times, didn’t you? EOS Me?
EOS Yeah, you moved house three times didn’t you? EOS When I was
younger? EOS Yeah. EOS No I didn’t! EOS I only moved from **anon** EOS
yeah EOS **anon**. EOS Well I thought there were somewhere before
that. EOS No, my Mum- EOS You moved to uni as well didn’t you? EOS Oh
are you talking about- it’s my childhood is it, or? When I was
younger- no but I went to live in **anon** when I was eighteen, but-
that was . EOS No but I thought- I though there was somewhere before
**anon**. EOS No, mum and dad, after they got married, my mum and dad
went to live in erm- on **anon**. EOS yeah EOS They lived in a house
on **anon**. But then once- then they moved to **anon**, on **anon**
and that’s when they had the chil- the thr- the- the three of us
there. EOS Right. EOS Yeah cos **anon** was a baby when we moved to
**anon**. EOS right EOS Cos it was a three bed semi and it wasn’t big
enough, so that’s when they were-**anon**, where me mum and dad live
now. EOS Yeah. EOS Used to be a big old like manor house. EOS ooh EOS
Called **anon**, and that was demolished. EOS And **anon** bought it
all and- and built all those houses. Erm but left all the **anon**
trees round it, that’s why it got its name. And so we moved there and
I think-. EOS Yeah it’s a history lesson as well. EOS yeah, EOS I was
six when I moved there. **anon** was one, yeah. EOS So you won’t
remember much. EOS So I- oh I remember it, gosh. Yeah, what do you
mean? EOS No, about the move I didn’t think you’d-. EOS Oh I can
remember it, yeah, oh, god yeah I can remember it. Mm, it was only
down the road. EOS yeah. EOS That’s true. EOS Yeah. EOS That’s when
you used to go caravanning, wasn’t it? EOS I did, yes. Don’t think
that’s on the list. EOS . EOS Yeah we used to go caravanning, yeah,
that- but that was when we lived at **anon**. So er used to leave the
caravan on the drive. And my mum hated it. EOS Oh no! EOS yeah she
used to dread it so we got rid of the caravan in the end. EOS yeah,
yeah EOS Well we sold it to me friend’s mum and dad. EOS Right. EOS
Okay. EOS So erm- well you didn’t really move round very much, you
stayed in one house. And your house was interesting. EOS They moved
when I was a baby and I don’t remember that. EOS Right. But the house
you lived in and were- was brought up in. EOS Yeah. EOS Was a big
terrace on erm, the main road in- in **anon**. And you had a number of
generations of families living in the same house. EOS Mhmm. EOS Do you
want to talk us through that? EOS Well there was me and my- my brother
and sisters. Mum and dad, cos me dad’s-. EOS So that’s how many, five
to start with Five children, younger children. EOS Seven with mum and
dad. EOS oh, seven- oh yeah, yeah. Mum and dad that’s seven people.
EOS But because there’s a fourteen year gap between myself and my
brother, and then another two years between my sister **anon** and
another two years between my sister **anon** EOS mm EOS they had sort
of grown up and moved out. EOS While I was quite young. EOS yeah. EOS
Er **anon** was at university while I was about five or six. EOS Aye.
EOS So they effectively had moved out when I was quite young. So there
was me and my younger sister **anon**, mum and dad, my dad’s sister,
Auntie **anon** and my dad and my Auntie’s father, EOS granddad, who
lived there. EOS And he was the boss. EOS Oh he was. EOS aww EOS
Granddad was the boss. EOS And he was called **anon**. EOS Yeah.
**anon**. EOS ah EOS yeah, **anon**. And he ruled, and I know this
because of my mum. Because my mum erm also, as well as going to school
with **anon** they were quite big church goers, and Bruce’s **anon**
family, the **anon** were church goers and they used to meet up at
church and **anon** and me mum used to sing in the same choir, didn’t
they? EOS That’s right. And your Auntie **anon** I think. EOS And
Auntie **anon** er, my mum’s sister. And er- and so she knew of the
family – obviously, they knew the family well. But they knew about
this granddad who-who was like sort of very traditional values. And
ruled the house quite strictly, didn’t he? EOS Yeah, yeah. EOS And
they were all very- well they weren’t- well you had a great deal of
respect for him, you weren’t particularly- were you frightened of him?
EOS Oh yeah, none the worse for it, oh definitely. EOS Oh yeah he was
frightened of him then, so . EOS yeah but we all loved him to bits,
and- EOS yeah EOS But er- anything we wanted to do, or go anywhere, we
had to ask. You know I didn’t ask my dad, cos he’d say, ‘ask your
granddad.’ EOS yeah . EOS and- EOS And also, wasn’t your dad- he
worked sh- nights. So you didn’t see your dad that much. You probably
saw more of your granddad and your grandma. EOS Yeah only- I only saw
me dad coming in from work in the morning, off his night shift, cos he
worked permanent nights for about twenty five years. EOS mm, mm EOS
And he came home about eight o’clock in the morning, had something to
eat, went to bed, I’d go off to school, come back, he’d be getting up
and then off to work. EOS Yeah, so really- EOS only really saw him at
the weekends. EOS yeah, so that’s probably why granddad- cos he’d be
retired then wouldn’t he, granddad? EOS yeah, yeah. EOS And- and your
grandma-. EOS I never saw my grandma. EOS Oh did you not, EOS no EOS
oh she passed away before- oh right, okay. EOS Yeah. That was me dad’s
mother. But I- I saw a lot of me mum’s mother. EOS Oh right. Yeah you
did, yeah. EOS who lived a few streets away. EOS she lived around-
yeah, cos now that was an interesting thing, because your mum’s mum
erm- your mum went over to bring her back didn’t she? EOS No, no, no
she came home. EOS Am I right? Oh I’ve got it all wrong. EOS No I
don’t know how she managed it, but she managed to get her over to
England in the- probably the nineteen sixties. EOS what are we looking
at- Crikey! EOS And she was quite elderly when she came over. EOS
Right. EOS So didn’t speak very much English. EOS mm EOS But still
managed to get to the shops when she could, while she was mobile
enough and able to-. EOS Wonder how she got here then? EOS While she
was able to get to the shops and buy a few things. EOS mm, aye, she
lived round the corner, didn’t she, In the big family home. EOS Yeah,
yeah. EOS Hmm, shall we get onto this- how long have we been at it?
EOS Twelve minutes. EOS oh, erm what fun things are t- are there to do
in your community? EOS Fun, round here? EOS Well, we got the Trafford
centre. EOS yeah EOS That’s the- the biggest thing, because er- since
the Trafford centre’s come along, there’s lots of- it’s my-. EOS I
know it’s no corner shop but- EOS I think it’s great fun cos I like
going shopping! So it’s like- if you like your shopping, it’s a
woman’s kind of er- what would you say? EOS Well it’s my hobby, going
there. EOS yeah EOS And er, what other things? Well we don’t often
walk into our local shopping area, but we did the previous Saturday
night, didn’t we? EOS Yeah. EOS And we thoroughly enjoyed it, but
noticed how mu- noticed all the improvements in the local town centre,
but realised how much more needed to be done. EOS yeah EOS It was kind
of half finished, so erm, but we’ve got sports centres, and I did used
to belong to the local gym and I’m not any more EOS And really over
the years, we have used all local facilities. Haven’t we? EOS Yeah
we’ve used all the sports centres, the swimming baths. EOS Used all
the sports centres and- EOS Maybe not- not public transport as much as
we should have done. EOS No. No, but we use the park, EOS yeah EOS we
used the park a lot when the boys were younger. EOS Yeah. EOS Erm-.
EOS Yeah they played for local football teams, local swimming club.
EOS Yeah, yeah. EOS So there is plenty to do, if you want, if you look
for it EOS Oh it’s all there. It’s ideal where we live, because it’s
erm- it’s in a good area, isn’t it? For erm accessing services really.
EOS Yeah it’s- it’s very EOS Walk to most things can’t we? EOS yeah
EOS It’s only a few minutes from Manchester. EOS Yeah walk into
Urmston, get the train into Manchester. Cos we’re not on- quite near
the- near enough for the tram link yet. EOS Traffic’s never too bad.
EOS No. EOS Apart from a few days near Christmas. EOS mm, yeah. EOS
But generally, getting into Manchester’s quite easy, yeah EOS Yeah.
And we got some nice local restaurants, haven’t we? EOS If you can get
in. EOS yeah EOS yeah well, yeah, I didn’t finish my story about the
other Saturday night. EOS When we walked into Urmston, thinking we
could just get into a restaurant, thinking, ‘well nobody really goes
out in Urmston,’ and it was very deserted, all the streets, but all
the pubs and the restaurants were jam-packed full EOS . EOS And we
were pleasantly surprised weren’t we? EOS Yeah. EOS Cos if we go out
we don’t tend to go local, do we? Generally. EOS Not generally, don’t
think I’ve- EOS Not generally, we’ve always gone out somewhere into
town, or to people’s houses or whatever, or stay in and entertain
with- So, there you go. EOS So what about school? EOS What about
school? EOS about your memories of school? EOS Well I’ve got really
erm, happy memories actually, of school. But erm, certainly from when
I went to **anon**, and yet I was quite shocked when I went to a
reunion, quite a number of years ago, ooh crikey, it would be probably
about seven- no maybe longer, maybe ten years ago, I went to a
reunion. And there was about sixty-odd of us all at the Urmston
cricket club, all who’d gone- EOS yeah EOS some of us had stayed on
into sixth form, quite a lot had left in the fifth year, cos in those
days, er late seventies early eighties, not everybody was encouraged
to stay on. EOS So quite a lot left in the fifth year. Which is year
eleven. And erm- and I was quite shocked at all those who had left,
they’d left cos they were so unhappy. EOS Really? EOS Yeah. They hated
the teachers, thought they were weirdos. EOS And erm, they couldn’t
understand why we’d all stayed on. And erm- and I was shocked that
when they were telling me about being unhappy, cos we were dead happy
there. EOS Yeah. EOS And- and I was quite shocked at how many were
bullied. EOS oh EOS I was sh- I was absolutely shocked at that. Cos I
was never once bullied. And I’m not a bully myself, I wasn’t doing the
bullying EOS no EOS They were bullied by the teachers or the pupils?
EOS Teachers and other pupils. EOS God EOS Mm, cos it was an all
girl’s school when I went there. Erm but- not that that’s any excuse
but er- I was- we came away quite upset actually, for some of them, I
couldn’t believe it. Prior to that, I went to **anon**, and **anon**,
and my memories of that school-. EOS Are that- of that long passageway
from the infants to the juniors and back. EOS yeah EOS And it’s
bizarre, because erm- couple of years ago when me younger sister had
**anon** er- we were trying to get him to sleep at night and I said,
‘oh I’ll t-’ we were at my mum’s, who lived- me mum lives quite close
to the school, and I said, ‘oh I’ll take **anon** out in the pram,’ so
I thought ‘oh I’ll- I’m gonna go down **anon** and have a look at me
old school.’ EOS Yeah. EOS And it was- it was a real sort of funny
feeling going down there, EOS mm EOS and I was looking at how it had
all changed, I couldn’t believe how different it looked. The- the
actual original building’s still there but they’ve added on and-. EOS
Yeah. EOS Changed the playground a bit and- and all me memories came
flooding back. And the first thing I remembered as I’m- as I’m
approaching at the bottom of **anon**, and going left onto the
passageway, erm I just remember I felt really big, this- I felt really
tall, this big tall person. EOS Because when I was last down there, I
was this little tiny person, EOS ahh, yeah EOS and the passageway
looked so big and- and long. EOS yeah EOS And yet it was just a tiny
little pass-way- passageway really. EOS yeah EOS It wasn’t anywhere
near as- as big and long as it was when you’re little. But what I
instantly thought about when I looked at the main entrance of the
junior school was- was always the smell of sour milk EOS and bottles
that had been kicked over by the boys football. EOS yeah EOS And what
it was, we used to have milk delivered in glass bottles, and the- EOS
It was like half a pint wasn’t it? EOS Yeah small bottles of milk. And
the lads were terrible for the football and they’d kick it around and
it’d eventually get kicked at the- the milk bottles and they’d be
smashed all over the front. EOS And erm-. EOS Did you- did you drink
it? EOS Milk everywhere. And it was warm as well, when it was
delivered into the classroom, EOS oh EOS it was warm, and we drank it.
EOS Oh I- I used to hate it. EOS See I- I think I quite liked it, cos
it’s creamy. EOS ahh, but it was warm and horrible EOS I used to give
mine away. EOS Did you? EOS Yeah. EOS Oh no I think I er- I think I
drank it. Yeah didn’t mind it. EOS It was alright in the winter, but
in the summer it was just-. EOS But it was that smell, I could smell
it the minute I got to- to th- to the erm- the passageway where the
school is, EOS mm EOS I could- I could even smell the milk EOS that’s
funny. EOS yeah, yeah and then I walked round to the infants and that
just seemed so tiny, that entrance. EOS yeah EOS I just remember the
school- I looked at the- the erm the door to the entrance, the infant
entrance- well it’s all in- sorry the younger end and erm, I just
remember when you walked through those doors, the cloakroom was on the
right and then there’s this long corridor with the classrooms off it.
EOS Yeah. EOS And the hall on the left. And erm I just kept thinking
about all the teachers and erm- there was a teacher there apparently,
I think she must’ve been the reception teacher, called **anon** who
apparently, me mum said used to absolutely adore me. EOS Aww. EOS I
had this big round chubby face that was always red EOS and I used to
come back with lipstick all over my face where she’d been kissing me,
apparently. EOS Can you believe that? EOS Oh they’d never get away
with that now would they? EOS No they wouldn’t, they wouldn’t. And
erm, I couldn’t say **anon** and I used to call her Mi- **anon**. EOS
aww EOS Cos you knew which side your bread was buttered didn’t you?
EOS I did EOS . So erm, that was my r- early recollections of erm the
infants and juniors. What about yours? EOS Well my school was called
**anon**. EOS mm EOS **anon**. EOS Which is the school your- your mum
went to, and your Auntie **anon**. EOS Yeah . EOS Er, it was church of
England erm, juniors and infant school. EOS Right. EOS But prior to me
going, it was also a secondary school. EOS mm EOS For- for kids up to
the age of fourteen I think, in those days. EOS mm EOS Er but that
stopped when my secondary school, which was **anon** opened in EOS
Yeah. EOS **anon**. EOS Oh that’s when I was born. EOS That’s when you
were born. EOS And I w- I started there in nineteen sixty seven, I
think. EOS Ooh. EOS Yeah, and it’s now being demolished. EOS Aww. EOS
oh no EOS because it’s built on the edge of Barton Moss, EOS oh EOS
which is like boggy and peaty. EOS yeah. EOS And it was sinking EOS
gonna say it’s bloody sinking! . Yeah, betit is. EOS And it was built
in the early sixties and not very well built. EOS Oh gosh! EOS Yeah.
EOS And a lot of the erm the walls had been kicked in at times and EOS
it was okay when I was there, but apparently years later it was really
tatty, so it’s being demolished and it’s now **anon**. Very er- very
posh. EOS ahh EOS mm, yeah. EOS But the estate it’s on has got a lot
rougher since- EOS mm EOS since I was there. EOS Yeah. EOS And it’s so
bad buses won’t go on the estate at night now. EOS Whoah! EOS Oh gosh!
EOS And at one time it was a really nice-. EOS Yeah. EOS Sort of
showpiece council estate. EOS It’s where the cemetery is, have you
ever been to the cemetery at the end of the-? EOS On **anon**. EOS
Yeah. EOS **anon**, at the end of the motorway there, the erm- EOS
That estate. EOS yeah EOS yeah, if you’re- you’re gonna be cremated
basically you go-. EOS yeah. EOS Well actually no, burials as well
aren’t there? EOS yeah, but- yeah but I was quite happy there but it
wasn’t a very academic school, and in the old system of CSEs, it’s
before GCSEs. EOS Yeah. EOS We all did the CSE course EOS mm EOS and
if they thought you were good enough, you did a little bit of extra
work to get you through the O-level. EOS Yeah. EOS But it was only
really designed to scrape through EOS yeah EOS oh, right, okay EOS the
O-levels. EOS yeah, EOS yeah. EOS Which I found out when I came to do
A-levels and it was, ‘whoah!’ Completely-. EOS Really? EOS Bit of a
big leap from that to A-level, mm EOS Yeah, massive leap cos I’d only
really done CSE. EOS Yeah. EOS he hadn’t done GCSE standard. EOS Yeah.
EOS So yeah then it’d be too much, wouldn’t it? EOS So yeah then
A-levels were a big- big jump. EOS mm EOS mm, Yeah. EOS Yeah, so that
was the big difference between- say the grammar schools now and -. EOS
Cos there is now isn’t there even? EOS yeah EOS Cos really they help
you so much more I think with your GCSEs certainly, EOS mm EOS and
then A-levels you’re not as- you don’t there’s a big step up isn’t
there? EOS Yeah EOS yeah EOS yeah and with the eleven plus they do
round here, EOS yeah EOS at least if you go to **anon**, you’re still
doing the same course. EOS you’re still- Yeah and you’re still gonna
do well as well aren’t you? EOS As the people at the grammar, so if
you apply yourself, EOS mm EOS and stay clear of the ones who don’t
want to work, EOS yeah EOS there’s no reason why you shouldn’t do
well. EOS You can do well can’t you? EOS But- EOS That wasn’t
encouraged then. EOS No. EOS At secondary school. EOS No, not at all
really. And the junior school I went to erm, didn’t do any practice
papers for the eleven plus, EOS mm EOS which I know they don’t do now,
but erm-. EOS Parents are aware of practice papers and things. EOS
yeah EOS Oh God yeah, yeah mm. EOS But in those days, some schools did
practice papers and- EOS mm EOS and half the class would pass. EOS So
when you saw your eleven plus paper, that’d be the first time you’d
ever seen one. EOS And like, ‘what? What’s that?’ EOS I mean, it
doesn’t matter how clever you are, you can’t do it can you, unless you
practice it. EOS yeah, yeah EOS Well one person passed. EOS Let me
stick this light- oh sorry but I can’t move! EOS yeah, you can EOS
Sorry, it’s alright I was just gonna put the light on. EOS One person
passed in my class. No right channel EOS Really? EOS And she’s now a
top barrister in London. EOS wow EOS So that’s how clever you had to
be. EOS Whose sister- EOS **anon**. EOS her- Right channel resumes)
EOS her younger sister was in-. EOS **anon**. EOS **anon** was she in
the year above me, I think at **anon**. She went to do- EOS I think
she went to do mechanical engineering. Oh thanks, yeah. . EOS But
their parents owned-. EOS They’re really clever girls anyway I think,
aren’t they? EOS Yeah their parents owned **anon** at the time. EOS Oh
right. EOS Cos they sold parker pens. EOS Oh did they live in Eccles
then, and come on the coach down to the grammar? EOS Er they probably
came on the bus. EOS There used to be the number twenty two. cos they
lived near **anon**. And the bus used to go from **anon**. EOS Oh yes,
right. EOS I think it still does EOS So- so don’t they have a special
bus for them- coach for them from Salford, don’t they? EOS Mm. EOS
Yeah they do now. EOS Cos I remember that starting. EOS But there w-
there was a lot- it was fifty-fifty, those who went to the grammar,
EOS yeah EOS it was fifty-fifty, if you went to **anon** or **anon**.
EOS Yeah. Ah yeah right, okay. EOS But it always annoyed me because
this **anon**, it was always me or her who were top. EOS Aww EOS aww
rivalry. EOS Yeah. And then-. EOS Do you think she did practice papers
then? EOS Yeah that was what I was saying, her mum and dad had this
posh paper shop and they- they probably knew about practice papers and
things. EOS Oh, they would have known about- how annoying. EOS Yeah.
But- EOS And they never told anybody else. EOS the good old days,
yeah. EOS Yeah, cos it seems a bit of a coincidence that she was the
only one that passed. EOS Yeah. EOS yeah, because me, her and three
other girls skipped a class between the infants and the juniors, we
didn’t go in to what is now year three. EOS oh yeah, yeah. EOS We went
into year four. EOS oh EOS Why would they do that, that’s silly? EOS
They used to- used to- they used to do daft things like that, like,
‘oh you’re clever enough to go into year four, you don’t need to- you
don’t-’ EOS so you missed a whole year? EOS Yeah, when you learn your
tables and things like that. EOS yeah EOS Oh that’s ludicrous! EOS But
that’s what they used to do. EOS Mm, it is terrible that. EOS And even
though we weren’t at the bottom of that class-. EOS Yeah. EOS We were
somewhere near the top, but not at the top. EOS mm, what a shame. EOS
Yeah. EOS And it was weird, you know, splitting us up from all our
friends, EOS yeah, that is weird EOS and then you make new friends
and-. and, that’s how I got to know **anon**. EOS Yeah- **anon**? EOS
Who I used to go- I used to go to the match with. EOS Oh right was in
the year above? EOS Cos he was in that year above, yeah. EOS Oh right.
You see you’ve always had friends that have been older than you,
haven’t you? EOS Yeah, and I think it’s because of that. EOS yeah EOS
I’ve noticed that, you know, even now I’m thinking of **anon** and
erm- actually **anon** the same age, isn’t he? EOS Yeah. EOS Erm those
other blokes, I mean a lot of them have moved away now, but when I
first met you, EOS a lot of your friends were older than you and I-
‘oh I used to go to school with him but he was in the year above, or
the year above that.’ EOS yeah EOS Yeah well it probably started off-.
EOS So that- I wonder if that’s why? EOS knowing **anon** and a few
others. Then we went to the same secondary school so I- I was back in
my proper year. EOS Oh really? EOS But your friends were in the year
above, EOS A lot of me friends were in the year above, EOS yeah, it’s
a shame isn’t it EOS yeah EOS but I was still friends with- I was
still friends with kids in my year. So I was friends with both. And
then I go to know others. EOS Yeah, yeah EOS In the year above, like
**anon**. EOS mm EOS Yeah, EOS People like that. And then h- with the
other people, I think you’re probably thinking of **anon** and people
like that. EOS Oh it’s **anon** yes, yeah. EOS Who’s like three years
older than me. EOS yeah EOS He’s quite a bit isn’t he, yeah. EOS But
all that came about through volleyball. EOS Yeah. EOS ooh EOS Which we
used to play at our school, EOS You did, yeah. EOS because- cos our
maths teacher played for England, EOS woah EOS at volleyball, so we
were the only school who could play it properly. EOS yeah EOS Us and
**anon** and **anon** and we used to play them. So that’s how I got to
know people like **anon**, **anon** who went to **anon**. EOS Oh gosh,
yeah, mm EOS And **anon** who went to **anon**. EOS Mm, oh they were
clever lads weren’t they? EOS And when we all- when we all left school
we all got a team together. EOS Yeah. EOS So we were quite a different
you know erm, wide ranging age group. EOS mm EOS Yeah. EOS And pretty
much kept in touch up until the last few years, when we’ve got married
and had kids and-. EOS Oh. EOS I know, and also we- we’ve lost a lot
of friends through divorce, cos of- you know people like **anon**
split up hasn’t he? EOS Yeah . EOS Quite a lot of them have er- well
they’ve moved abroad, I mean **anon** and **anon** who we’re really
friendly with, and they went to live in Canada, I remember feeling
dead upset when they went away and it’s really hard to keep in touch
with people. EOS Yeah. EOS When they move away as well, and then
obviously if they split up it sort of becomes awkward then EOS yeah
EOS because you don’t know EOS which one to choose EOS which one to
choose. EOS Yeah if there’d been things like facebook you know like
fifteen years ago. EOS Yeah probably would’ve stayed in touch with
them better really. EOS It would’ve been a lot easier. EOS Yeah. You
remember to go on it and- EOS Yeah and mobile phones, and texting. EOS
yeah EOS Yeah, yeah EOS Emails. EOS I know. EOS Cos it used to be
having to rely on letters didn’t it, and- EOS yeah EOS mm EOS An
expensive phone call, if they were abroad. EOS Yeah that’s right.
Yeah, I mean it’d be nice to go to Canada and see **anon** and
**anon** wouldn’t it? EOS yeah. EOS Although I don’t really fancy
Canada. I mean, I know we did Niagara falls last year, that was only
touching into it a bit, but, EOS mm EOS I don’t know it doesn’t
really- there’s nothing about Canada that really appeals to me to go
to, like- EOS yeah EOS I like America where you’ve got- seem to have
so much there to offer you. So- it’s got everything hasn’t it? EOS
Well I think where they are in Vancouver, it’s on the edge of the
rocky mountains. EOS yeah EOS Well that’s it, it’s probably my
ignorance really. EOS And it’s supposed to be really, really nice. EOS
mm EOS I know it’s supposed to be really clean. Cos I know when
**anon** and **anon** have been over- **anon** been over more so than
**anon** EOS yeah EOS but he always says when he- cos he’ll always-
cos his parents live on **anon**, EOS oh, okay EOS so if he’s home
he’ll always come and see us EOS yeah EOS and erm- cos you remember he
knocked at the door and **anon** didn’t know who he was? EOS So
**anon** had this funny conversation with him and he said, ‘oh come
and wait for them, oh, wait in for them,’ cos we were out. EOS It’s-
It’s **anon** uncle, actually. EOS It’s **anon** uncle. EOS Ah okay
EOS Yeah. EOS Yeah now there’s a story. EOS And erm **anon**-
**anon**- **anon** didn’t sort of- ‘well who are you, I don’t really
want to let you in my house,’ EOS he’s, ‘oh just wait for them,’ yeah.
EOS Oh no. EOS Yeah. EOS So- yeah so- so but when erm, **anon** was
last round here a few years back, she- she said, ‘I can’t believe how
dirty Manchester is.’ EOS Really? EOS They’d been out in the city
centre and she just said, ‘there’s just rubbish everywhere, it’s just
filthy.’ EOS An- and actually funnily enough, last night when I went
to take- yesterday when I went to take that dvd back to blockbuster,
it’s absolutely filthy round that area where blockbuster is, the back
of macdonalds, where people have just thrown all the fast food sh-
outlets. EOS It’s all the macdonald’s, kfc isn’t it? Pizza hut. EOS
They’re just- there’s bins there and the people just throw it, now
you- I must admit even in A- where we’ve been in America, you wouldn’t
see that. EOS Yeah. EOS It’s for being back- back- back in New York,
but- EOS But it’s lazy people who dri- go to the drive through isn’t
it, and they just eat their food. EOS And they just chuck it
everywhere. EOS yeah EOS And they’re too lazy to get out aren’t they?
EOS Yeah. EOS And I- and I can’t understand why whole families eat in
the car, when they can go inside. EOS No, I’m- yeah. EOS I know and
they just- they just chuck things out and but sort of o- like **anon**
said in Canada, there’s just people constantly clearing rubbish up all
the time. EOS Well it’s- it’s like that at Disneyland isn’t it? EOS
Mm. EOS mm EOS There’s people- EOS yeah EOS everywhere scooping litter
up. EOS and there’ll be parts of Canada and America that are dirty but
she did say that when she- when they moved out there they couldn’t get
over what- how clean EOS yeah EOS everything looked. And spick and
span, and- EOS And- and- and when she comes back she notices how dirty
Manchester seems to be. EOS mm EOS Well I think Canada’s got a smaller
population than Britain. EOS It’s more spread out as well. EOS Yeah.
EOS yeah, and it’s- EOS I think erm-. EOS I think it’s the second
largest country in the world, isn’t it? EOS We’re more highly- densely
populated, mm. Yeah. EOS Yeah. EOS So you obviously had a lot of
friends didn’t you, when you were younger? EOS Yeah. EOS Yeah we had a
lot because I’m one of four girls and we used to share friends. EOS Oh
okay EOS cos we were all fairly close, you do that with sisters. EOS
aww, yeah EOS So- and it- it’s interesting cos even erm- when I went
to me elder sister’s fiftieth on Friday, I was telling them at work
today, they were saying, ‘how did you get on?’ and I was saying, ‘oh
it was really fun,’ you know, and some of them, the fifty- fifty
somethings that were there, you see I’ve known them for donkey’s years
really, like **anon**. EOS Yeah. EOS Cos **anon** used to share a flat
with **anon** and- and erm-. EOS I just remember erm- you know, I used
to go out with her as well, we- so we, you know, we’d share friends.
EOS Yeah. EOS And erm, and like **anon** my best friend now, who’s
really good friends with **anon** isn’t she? EOS yeah. EOS She- you
know we’ve always been like that. Cos we- we- although my sisters are
like me- me sisters are like my friends as well. EOS Yeah. EOS And erm
so we sort of erm- we know about each other’s friends as well. And
erm, and ask about them. And er, yeah. EOS Yeah. Well this question
here’s just reminded me of something. EOS Which one? EOS Did you ever
get into trouble for something at school, were you ever blamed for
something that wasn’t your fault? Well I was blamed for something
once. EOS oh no EOS It was at lunchtime, and then you c- you could go
home for your lunch if you wanted, EOS yeah EOS or you could stay at
school and I went through periods of doing both. EOS mm EOS So it was
o- on one of my supposed-to-be going home for lunch periods. EOS
Right. EOS When we used to go to the chippy. We went to the chippy and
just for something to do we walked round the estate got onto the
school fields in the far corner. There was a gate there, it wasn’t a
problem, walked across the school fields, back to school and the
headmaster was wait- waiting for us. And it was, ‘you boys! You’ve all
been smoking!’ EOS ‘I’m telling you, you ha- you have even if you
haven’t.’ EOS ‘No we’re not!’, ‘Yep you’ve all been smoking, there’s
no other reason to be on the fields at lunchtime.’ EOS So we all got
the slipper. EOS Oh no. EOS Cos he was a real bully. EOS Yeah. EOS So
when my dad found out-. EOS Was that on a bare bottom as well? EOS No
you kept your trousers on! EOS Oh right, that’s alright then! EOS It’s
not ‘Tom Brown’s schooldays’ or whatever EOS . EOS Well we’re going
back a number of years, you know EOS Yeah the nineteen sixties, not
the eighteen sixties! EOS So er- my dad went bananas. EOS Did he? EOS
Rang the school up and-. EOS Not granddad **anon**? EOS No I think my
granddad might have died by then. EOS Oh. EOS But my dad rang up and
said, ‘if- if the- if our Bruce **anon** wants to smoke, he can smoke,
he’s got my permission.’ EOS . EOS Did he? EOS Yeah. Cos me dad was
heavy smoker and it- it wasn’t a. EOS his Dad was EOS , ‘oh well,
that’s alright, ah, thanks, I’ve got the option now.’ EOS But you’ve
never smoked, have you? EOS No, tried a few but didn’t like them. EOS
yeah EOS didn’t like it EOS No, thank goodness, yeah. EOS yeah EOS
Actually that- it’s made me think of something, about **anon**. We
used to get the ruler, the girls got the ruler and the lads got the
cane EOS from **anon**. Who was the headt- well he was deputy head
when I was there and then when I left I believe he became the head
for- for a long, long time. And erm, my elder sister **anon**
particularly didn’t get on with him, he used to pick a lot on **anon**
for some reason. And I remember at one parent’s evening erm-. EOS Me-
me dad- well they’d gone to parent’s evening, they’d been to som- some
problem between this teacher- I think actually- sorry at the time he
was- I don’t think he was even deputy head, this **anon** he might’ve
just been- just a general teacher. And there’d been some incident with
me sister, I can’t even remember what it was but I just- I just
remember erm me mum telling me that at parent’s evening me dad just
threw a wobbler and got him up against this- EOS teacher up against
the wall, and was like just about to thump him one. And, ‘leave my
daughter alone, you know I’m sick of you picking on her!’ EOS Yeah.
EOS Cos I think he really did, he just- you know when some teachers
just don’t like certain people he just didn’t like our **anon**. EOS
Yeah. EOS This **anon**. EOS Mm. EOS And erm and he- in fact he- he- I
think he’s died recently he’s been- in fact he has, because-. EOS It
was **anon** mentioned it. EOS Yeah **anon** told me. Who’s a builder,
you know **anon** and erm, **anon** dad. EOS Oh okay yeah. EOS
**anon** was in our **anon** class at- at junior school and- and EOS
yeah EOS again rec- cos when he was doing the building work on our
house, we were having conversations and I found out erm it was
**anon**- he was in **anon** class and I said, ‘ooh did you ever come
across **anon**?’ and he went, ‘**anon**! Oh God he was awful I hated
him.’ Apparently he used to have- this is awful what they used to do,
teachers in them days. Erm- he didn’t just cane **anon** cos I think
**anon** was quite naughty. EOS yeah EOS Erm he used to make **anon**
sit at his desk- at the teacher’s desk and **anon** would have to do
all his work there. And if he dare lift his head up, he apparently had
a erm- erm what do you call it? Ping Pong bat with a face drawn on it-
EOS this is the teacher, and he’d crack him over the head with it
every time he lifted his head up. EOS God! EOS That was **anon**. EOS
Yeah. EOS And then I remember erm bumping into **anon** and he told
me, ‘you’re never gonna believe it, that B-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh’ EOS
‘has died now.’ EOS And it was in the paper, but he lived ‘til he was-
I think in his nineties. EOS gosh EOS And he lived I think off
**anon** in Flixton and we used to see him going up and down the road
and our **anon** erm, went to **anon**. And she set off obviously me
mum and dad’s in **anon** and she had to- she’d have to pass him every
day and she used to think, ‘oh I hate you!’ you know, after she’d
left, and- EOS Yeah. EOS Cos he used to pr- practically bully her
really. And erm absolutely hated him. I had no trouble with him he was
alright with me and I think the other two he was alright with,
**anon** and **anon** don’t think they had any trouble. EOS Yeah you’d
have thought he might have had something against you as well, being
**anon** sister. EOS oh, yeah EOS Yeah, no, well I think after this
incident with me dad about to batt- batter him-. EOS Oh right. EOS
scared EOS He- he was- he- he wouldn’t have any- we were fine after
that. Mm, I was gonna talk about something else then but er- I forgot-
ooh so I’m just coming onto like corporal punishment really because
what we- what we did- we- you know you have a spelling test oh well we
still had spelling tests in them days. EOS Yeah. EOS And then say it
was out of ten you know, depending on how many you got wrong, erm
you’d have to line up at **anon** desk. EOS And you would get thrashed
basically, EOS so if you got five out of ten, you got five lashes of
the cane, and five- that was the lads, and the girls would get the
ruler on the back of their hands five times, or dependent on how many
spellings you got wrong. EOS gosh EOS And that was a regular thing,
wasn’t it? EOS So hence, your spelling’s quite good! EOS yeah EOS
That’s why I’ve got- really have good spelling actually, cos it was
the thought of getting the ruler. But I can only remember erm, a black
girl who was in my class called **anon** I’ll never forget her. And
erm her brother was in I think the year below or couple of years
below. And they- both her and her brother were adopted, and she had
white parents. And again, they lived actually on **anon**. And she was
absolutely terrified of **anon** and I always remember one day she
just- you know I think she just freaked out if she ever got the- the
ruler. EOS yeah EOS And she cheated in this spelling test and she-
she’d actually written the spellings on her desk. EOS ooh EOS Cos we
had wooden desks in those days EOS yeah EOS and you used a fountain
pen. EOS And er anyway she’d- she’d obviously done surprisingly very
well in this test EOS and he was obviously suspicious, EOS so we all
went out to play and then obviously he was snooping round and he saw
these spellings written on her desk. EOS Etched into the er- . EOS
Yeah. Oh I’ll never forget it, it was awful, and he made her scrub it
with bleach and everything and-. EOS Oh no. EOS Oh it was just awful.
Yeah, you lived in fear really you know. EOS yeah EOS Mostly you did.
But then I went to the grammar school and I was quite- you know, I had
quite a happ- happy time there really. EOS Yeah. EOS I mean I don’t
think I particularly had an unhappy time- I think I had a very happy
time in the infants and I think going into juniors was fine until we
had this particular teacher. EOS yeah EOS I think generally it was
him. EOS Yeah that’s the trouble isn’t it at infants and juniors, EOS
it’s teachers EOS teachers EOS you’re just stuck with the same teacher
for a year. EOS yeah EOS Yeah, yeah. I think I-. EOS And they’re stuck
with you if- if they feel the same, EOS yeah EOS yeah, yeah EOS I know
I don’t know how he ever got the deputy- well he was deputy head when
I was there and then he got the headship after I left. They were
probably frightened to not give it him. EOS yeah EOS To be honest. Mm,
still see him now, he was one of those blokes, sort of balding with a
bit of hair either side, like a bit of a mad professor type. EOS yeah
EOS Always had a tweed jacket on. EOS Oh yes they always had a tweed
jacket. EOS Yeah with patches here. EOS A bit portly. EOS Portly,
absolutely short and portly. And he just looked like that from the
minute he started there from- from- and I presume from when he left.
He just never looked any different. EOS He sounds just like **anon**
who we had at **anon**. EOS Who your Auntie **anon** remembers, he was
er- our equivalent. EOS oh, no EOS He had a choice of slipper, EOS it
was pu- it was pumps, slippers, there was a few EOS . EOS Yeah. EOS
One with nails sticking out just so it had a bit of . EOS Yeah he used
to run the tuckshop, and it was behind him, in his little room behind
him and he was- he was supposed to be teaching and he was just tucking
in to Jammy Dodgers and things like that, yeah. EOS Really? Awful. EOS
Well he was- but then he left and went to- after I left, he went to
**anon** school in Swinton. EOS Oh really, **anon**? EOS No **anon**
Junior school. EOS Oh a junior, right. EOS Yeah. EOS Was that a
private school? EOS No, EOS oh EOS but I think he’s lived round here
somewhere, apparently. EOS Really? Oh. EOS Yeah don’t know if he’s
still alive, he must be well into his eighties or nineties now. EOS mm
EOS mm EOS But yeah. Definitely old school. EOS yeah, mm, I’m just
looking here about having to help out around the house, erm this is
funny. In fact I was telling them, they must think I’m a bit of a
nutter at school- EOS at work sorry, cos I- I dunno how we got onto
this conversation, this was last week and we were talking about
sisters and things and getting on with families and stuff and I said
‘I can remember when erm, when the four of us- me and my three
sisters, were all living at home, in- on **anon**. EOS And erm I think
the younger two are a bit too young at the time t- to have to help
with chores so it was me and **anon** and we used to have to erm,
wash- we didn’t have dishwashers so we used to have to wash and dry
and put away. Now the person who washed up, EOS mmhmm EOS washed up
and that was it you could get out of the kitchen quick but the poor
person who had to dry also had to put away. EOS Aww EOS And guess who
always ended up drying and putting away cos she was a bit younger than
the older bossy sister. EOS . EOS Wouldn’t be you, would it? EOS yeah,
it was me and I can just remember just getting so fed up she’d rush
into the kitchen start washing up and I’d get in, I thought, ‘here I
am again, I’m having to dry.’ And then she’d you know, hurry up do it
much- obviously quicker cos it takes longer to- to dry and then put
away. She’d rush out and carry on doing what she was doing, watching
telly or whatever. And I just remember one day she was washing up and
I’m drying the knives and I got a knife to her I EOS But you know in a
sort of friendly kind of way. . EOS playful EOS There is- there is no
friendly kind of way. EOS And I was just getting it and say- getting-
cos we used to have steak knives as well so actually it was quite
sharp actually, EOS it was a very sharp steak knife. EOS Bit posh
that! EOS With er- a brown wooden handle, erm cos the reason why I
remember that is when you were washing up you weren’t allowed to put
the handles in the water. Because they were wooden. EOS ooh EOS
Because they were wood. EOS Yeah and you used to have to hold them
like that and- and clean the- the stainless steel edging. So, I just
remember getting it and saying, ‘I’m fed up of having to dry and put
away I’m fed up, you’ve got to let me wash them all’ EOS ‘wash the
pots for a change! Or I’m gonna tell mum and dad,’ like this. EOS I
think it did work, I seem to think having the knife there perhaps
helped EOS violence EOS did help a bit. EOS Better be careful hadn’t
I? EOS yeah EOS Yeah you just keep loading the do- dishwasher up Bruce
**anon** you’re alright. EOS Oh so that’s why we got one is it?