sed by omission due to recording problem... What sorry?... Can you
just count to three? Is that OK?... One two three.... Yep.... Well
Vivienne ,... yeah... we know where we went to school. No left
channel... We went to the same school.... We went to school.... it
was. Now did you ever get into trouble at school? Can you remember?...
I did get into trouble once, it was something to do with a bird....
Really?... And someb- I think the boy that got me into trouble,
somebody called who lived on .... mmhmm... But I can’t remember
exactly how it all came about.... But I know wasn’t very happy....
oh... Ah. Well I remember getting into trouble at that school and I
got the cane.... Oh I got the cane for it.... Did you?... Yes, yes....
I was late, I’ve never been late in my life, and I still hate being
late for anything.... Well I’m-.... And I dawdled on the way to school
and suddenly I realised that the doors were locked and I couldn’t get
in. And I had to stand waiting while they did the prayers.... How old
were you then?... Erm I was in the junior school, so possibly about
eleven. Ten or eleven. And I got the- this cane on my l- on my hand...
who gave you that? ?... and it was-... He was a bit handy with his
cane, wasn’t he?... And do you know it really hurt, it- and I was so
mortified that I had to stand there in the hall and be caned. Section
omitted due to recording problem... Difficult years to be a child
in.... Yes.... Erm wondering from one day to the next whether the
Germans would arrive on the doorstep.... Cos we had shelters didn’t
we?... We did at school, which we had to go into.... Yes.... And
practice for air-raids.... yes, air raids, mm... I got thumped in one
of those, I remember, very, very hard in the dark.... Really?...
Somebody thumped me, we never knew who it was. But er-.... Well you
wouldn’t in the dark, no... No .... But I quite enjoyed .... I did
actually. It was a church school.... Yes.... It was always a very good
school. But as far as favourite teacher goes erm-. Left channel
resumes... Was there one called ?... Yes.... I think she was a
favourite.... Yes possibly, she came from Irlam.... That’s right....
Mm, she did.... with the strap in the corner.... oh... She used to
frighten me to death. But she was a very, very good teacher. Was her
name ?... Right.... She used to play the piano.... I don’t remember
that name.... And if we didn’t sing- she taught us ‘Jerusalem’ and if
we didn’t sing it correctly, oh my word! She was very strict. No right
channel... right, right, I remember . Now she was extremely strict....
.... Very strict lady. She was a large lady and she was very, very
strict, everyone was frightened of her.... Well I think-.... As far as
your first day at school, that school- I actually, had been up in the
lake district cos I’d been evacuated erm to my aunt’s. And I do not
remember really my first day at school but I do remember at the
infants. And I do remember you and with your lovely dark black hair...
that was cut you know, with your fringes. I remember looking and
thinking, ‘ooh what lovely hair!’... I remember my first day. Cos I
was five when I went. Right channel resumes)... Right.... And I think
the teacher was called... oh... And I can picture the classroom....
And our younger than me, she cried because she wanted to come as well.
So she started as well, shortly afterwards. No right channel... Oh, oh
right.... Erm- but then our had appendicitis M did she... and she was
rushed to hospital.... Right.... And she missed quite a bit of
schooling because of it.... ooh, cos it was a big operation.... It was
in those days, yes. Cos they were frightened it might be
peritonitis.... Yes.... Because , my dad’s sister, she had died at
fourteen... oh right... with peritonitis. Erm and we always felt that
she never quite caught up, because she missed-.... So much.... The
grounding, you know, the basics. She’s alright now but that’s the way
we felt. Right channel resumes... mm, mm, summer holidays for me were
again, back in the Lake District.... yes, yeah... Erm I used to go on
**inc**.... We used to go on coach trips, Stratford upon Avon.... Yes,
yes... Erm I didn’t go to Scarborough. Erm, round Wales.... Right....
Me dad used to take us to New Brighton on the bus.... Oh right.... But
that’s as far as it went in those days, cos people didn’t go on
holiday, did they really?... mm, no they didn’t no. Well you couldn’t
because there was no seaside to go to, because it was mined, all the
beaches. I do remember going to Blackpool once.... Yes I remember
Blackpool.... And it was all barbed wire and you weren’t allowed on
the beach to play. Erm I presume it was all mined and you know,
waiting for an invasion.... mm, mm... So beaches were just you
know-.... A no go area.... No go areas yes. Yes.... But having said
that, I mean- our school days- we never went short. We were never
short of food or anything like that.... No, it wasn’t very good at
times.... We made the most of what we had, erm... Yes and I still hate
celery.... I’ve never really taken to celery.... raw celery, I hate,
but I love it in stews. I do actually like it.... Do you?... Yes, in
stews.... I eat it because puts it in... yes... but I can’t say that
it’s one of me favourite things.... Yes, no. But I think- I think it
was very difficult for our parents to feed- I mean, there were th-
three of us, ‘til was born.... mm... had my sister, in nineteen forty
four, so- it was hard to- everything was so rationed.... It was.... It
was dreadful, you queued for everything.... Everything.... you ate...
And sweets, when you think nowadays the shops are absolutely full of
them.... Yes, yes.... I suppose we were lucky that erm my aunties were
still at home and they gave us their sweet coupons.... Sweet coupons,
yes.... And we used to go to .... Oh yes, yes.... And er the main
thing we had were Barley sugars.... Oh gosh, really?... And
occasionally a treat, with a crunchie.... mm... But it was- that was
all you could get in those days.... mm... And then there was the
powdered egg,... powdered milk... Oh gosh that American powdered
egg.... Canned coffee, ooh.... We w- we were very lucky, we had erm-
my grandfather wrote to a lady in America who had been the fiancée of
an uncle.... Who died in the first world war.... mm, mm... And she
went out and married someone else. And went out to America and she
sent us food parcels, all the way through the war.... Oh that was
nice, yeah.... She was very religious and the church that she went to,
they collected for the English people.... Really?... And they used to
send us some wonderful things over.... yeah... Erm and it must’ve been
quite expensive to get it over in those days,... over in tho- yes...
they wouldn’t be flown over.... No, no.... It would’ve come by
boat.... It’d take weeks!... The only thing I hated was the
wintergreen sweets that they sent.... Oh I don’t remember those. I
never had those.... Oh they were dreadful, they were American,
wintergreen, and the chocolate was bad as well.... Urgh.... And I- I
never liked those.... Well even now I don’t think their chocolate is
as nice as ours.... I don’t, no.... Because and love Thorntons,... mm,
mm... in particular you know, the erm special toffee. And when me mum
used to visit erm in Chicago.... mm, mm... Take some decent cadburies
chocolates.... yes, yes, yes.... yes not as nice as hours.... But they
used to send- also, they collected clothes.... mm... Clothes that were
practically new. And I absolutely hated them. Because my mother cut
them down,... to fit me and they were American style sleeves.... yes
and you felt different.... And I was different at school in them. And
I absolutely hated them.... I don’t remember that Maureen . I don’t
remember.... And they were beautiful things, I’m sure.... Yes, yes,
mm... But they weren’t what I wanted. But there were no clothes.... I
know, well-.... Very difficult to get.... Cos I know when people got
married- I th- got married at the end of the war, and it wasn’t a
white outfit, it was sort of a two piece,... mm, mm... with a great
big hat.... Hats, mm.... She always wore a hat didn’t she?... mm, Well
I- I remember my mother making my eldest sister- half sister, erm,
wedding cake. That would be probably nineteen- was born in forty four,
so this would be forty five, I think.... mm... And my mum- my mother
had got all the cake mixture, black market cake mixture of course....
Yes, yes... Erm and she made this wedding cake and she took it out of
the oven and it fell into three pieces.... oh no... oh your poor
mum!... And she was absolutely horrified because she’d been a cook,
that was her- what she did as a young woman,... mm... and I think she
got the almond paste and stuck it together.... ‘gether .... Where the
cracks were. And iced over it and nobody knew any different....
knew... So that- but that stuck in my mind and yes, that’s amazing....
Yes, yes.... Erm but I used to- I did a lot of the queuing fo- for
food.... But we had to do, didn’t we?... Yes because my mother had
obviously had my sister in nineteen forty four... mm... and I used to
go and do all the-.... I did the er- most of the errands.... Did you
do it as well Vivienne ?... Yes... mm... .... Yes.... Cake shop...
yes... and we used to go to on the other side of the trinity. Erm-....
Mm, yes.... And everything you know was sort of weighed and very
precise.... Oh absolutely. When you watch these- I love the history
programmes... mm... and I do watch them and you know, what went on in
the war years. And they’re absolutely perfect because you know, they
are true footage.... I know.... Of what it was like and it makes you
think, ‘how did we ever survive?’... Well we did, didn’t we?... mm...
We never went short. Never went short.... No, we had probably just
about enough but er-.... Yes **inc** and yet it’s not done us any
harm, has it? When you think about it.... Well we’re still here at
seventy four and touch our toes, Vivienne .... I don’t know that I can
touch my toes.... mm, I can.... Can you?... Yes. Oh gosh yes.... Mind
you I’ve never tried but I’m sure I can’t.... No... I’m sure I can’t.
Oh dear.... yeah, yeah, well we’ve got our own teeth.... Oh I
haven’t.... Oh sorry... Well I have half, the bottom. But I had mine
out at twenty six.... Oh did you?... Because I had terrible teeth....
Oh right, right.... Look at her laughing!... I know... Terrible
teeth.... We’ve got our own hair colour!... Oh yeah and- well-....
Well yes!... With a bit of help... The hairdresser’s very helpful...
Absolutely. Erm, yes.... Erm you know and what else? Well I’ve got
contact lenses. I fool everyone cos I’ve got contact lenses.... Ooh no
I just- I couldn’t put those in, I couldn’t mess with my eyes.... Oh
gosh yes, yeah... I couldn’t.... I’ve had them about- oh I don’t know,
twenty five years, probably now.... Really?... mm, since I- I’m
more-.... I need my glasses for reading but I just couldn’t-... yes,
mm... if I had to wear them all the time, I’d have to wear them. Just
couldn’t put contact lenses in. does. But I couldn’t.... Erm, well my
grandson who’s eleven, well twelve tomorrow. He use- he has contact
lenses, .... Does he?... And what a difference it’s made to his life,
and I taught him how to do it.... Oh I’m sure. Really, yes.... Yes,
and erm I did explain it and I keep saying, you know, ‘you must wash
your hands, all the time!’... Ooh hands going near your eyes.... You
don’t want to get infected eyes. And I spent a long time- .... mm,
Explaining it to him.... Explaining how to do it, and do you know, he-
he was brilliant.... mm... And he’s so thrilled because he doesn’t
have to wear glasses any more.... yes.... mm... Yes, made a big
difference to him at school.... Because children generally don’t like
wearing glasses.... They’re quite cruel aren’t they? Some of them....
Oh they are yes. Yes that’s right.... But yes.... I mean on the whole
I think my school days were happy days.... Yes I’m sure mine were
really, yes.... But then after we parted company didn’t we?... We did
Vivienne you went to the grammar school.... I went to school.... And I
went to a technical col- commercial college.... mm, yes. And I suppose
I did sports at the grammar school.... And w- and- yes.... Erm hockey,
rounders, athletics.... Yes.... School choir. But I m- that’s a bit
like that now. All gone by the board.... No... I think they just had
netball at when I went there.... Did they? Well they had netball but
I-... mm... I think being on the short side, I wasn’t very good at
netball.... No, no.... I was better at hockey.... You are better when
you’re tall, yes.... And yet funny, my best friend, who was taller
than me, you know, .... Yes oh yes.... She was good at the high jump.
I did the long jump. She did netball, I did hockey. We just did
opposite things.... mm, mm, yes.... And I think that’s partly to do
with her being so much taller than me.... Taller, yes, yes.... mm...
mm... mm.... Now then. Funniest memories from when we were young....
And as far as brothers and sisters of course, I had- my father sadly
lost his first wife with consumption as they called it in those days.
Er in nineteen twenty nine or stroke thirty. Erm my sister was three.
And my brother was a baby, about six months old.... mm, mm... And my
father was working, because of all the problems with like today, jobs
that are difficult.... Yes.... And of course the twenties and thir-
well the twenties was very difficult. And he went to live in
Yorkshire. And-.... yeah- whereabouts in Yorkshire?... Well I can’t
just remember now, though I’m trying very hard to. There was a very
large erm- water supply, a big erm-.... Reservoir.... Yes and it f- I
think it fed Leeds I think, up there, but it’s beautiful up there. And
they had-.... Is it the reservoir that you see when you’re on the
M-sixty two? Going towards-.... No, no it isn’t.... no... Erm and I
have photographs of my father up a telegraph pole, cos he was
electrician.... Oh was he?... Wiring it all up. And they had houses as
well, and that- my sister took me about four or five years ago and the
foundations of the houses which were stone were still there. Just the
foundations,... mm... you could see where they were. Erm and the water
authority, it hadn’t been open actually to the public and they’d o-...
mm... they’d o- they’d only just opened this particular spot.... mm...
Erm and so it was quite you know, interesting to go.... Yes, yes....
And obviously my father’s been dead twenty years now. Erm but-.... Do
you know I thought it would’ve been more than that, Maureen .... My
father?... Mm.... Erm, well my mother- father twen-... mother twenty
and my father twenty two I think.... Really? Mm.... And then what
happened, she got this consumption living there. Sadly and had to go
to er a sanatorium. And he took his two children back to Windermere
where he came from.... mm... And his mother looked after them....
Looked after them, brought them up.... And that’s how he met my
mother... mm... there. Erm, so it was quite- really quite sad.... Sad
yes yeah.... Yeah for him erm-.... Well I can still picture your
mother and father, you know- big weren’t they?... Mm, yeah they were.
Yes.... Tall, and I know when I used to go shopping in Peel Green to
the butchers and your mum would be walking along, and I’d say, ‘how’s
Maureen ? Another little girl!’... another little girl, Yes....
Another little girl, one two three four.... Yes, mhmm.... Oh yes. But
then you see, what happened with- with grandchildren. Six
grandsons.... yeah... yes... And three granddaughters.... mm, mm...
And five boys, one after the other. We didn’t have any girls at
all.... Yes that’s right. Funny that.... Mm. But erm-.... Just I do
remember when we used to go to church and you were in the choir, like
was in the choir.... mm, mm... And used to go to , Christmas Eve,
carol singing.... mm, really mm.... And your Mum, I remember one year
in particular your mum gave us all erm hot chocolate before we
went.... ahh... Did she really Vivienne ?... yes one Christmas eve....
Ooh you can remember things better than me.... Yeah, she gave us erm
hot chocolate before we all set off for church.... Oh really....
yeah.... Gosh, mm... Happy days those, really.... Oh, yes, that’s- it
is, probably were, yes.... But you and -.... But you never got much
for Christmas, I certainly didn’t. There were just no toys at all....
Well you couldn’t- I think.... in the forties... The one thing I
remember getting at Christmas was a very nice- and it was off a friend
of my mum and dad’s.... A pencil box with a- that’s erm roller top....
Oh I know. Yeah.... But, you know, you come down Christmas day, and
your presents would be on the table. There’d be mine, and .... Mm....
Because that was it, wasn’t it,... mm... mm... and a bit of fruit?...
mm... Whatever- you know.... That’s right and a few nuts. You alw- I
had a pillowcase, always had a pillowcase and there was nuts in the
bottom, a tangerine and an apple.... mm, oh a tangerine. Yes.... And
erm they were- I don’t know that it was quite exciting to have those
at the very bottom.... Mm.... But I used to be so upset when there was
nothing left in it at all.... And wishing there were more things, but
there were no books Vivienne... no... and I never had a doll for- I
never played with dolls.... I- I wasn’t a doll person, I did have one
and I didn’t like it.... mm, well my mother-.... I did have a nice
doll’s pram.... Yes.... And bicycle that me granddad bought.... vv...
But it wasn’t at Christmas, it was sort of later on.... Yes.... When
you could afford it.... exactly. Yes, yes.... You know cos they
worked- worked hard.... Well I do remember a book that I was bought.
Two books- one was ‘The prisoner of Zenda’ and ‘Rupert of Hensor.’...
Oh I don’t remember that but I remember the first one.... And they
were hideous books, they were far too old for me.... I was just
thinking that.... And I c- I don’t really think I ever read them
really.... No.... but there were no children’s books. But from the
post office, her parents could always find Rupert books.... Could
they?... Mm, she always had the annuals for Rupert. And I was lucky,
because she used to lend them to me.... Yes, yes... You know, and so I
could read them. But I never had any books. And my mother, desperate
to get me a doll she went to the doll’s hospital in Manchester.... Oh
I remember the doll’s hospital.... And you remember that Vivienne ....
Mm.... Bought two heads and sewed them on this- these bodies she’d
made.... mm... And I had- I always had a black doll.... mm... I
absolutely loved black dolls,... mm... mm... more than white dolls.
Cos I just had this attraction f- for black dolls. And she got me a
black and a white one. And I went to see my friend at the time....
She’s a mutual friend, .... oh, okay... Yeah.... We went to school
with her, didn’t we?... Yes, yeah. And dropped one of my dolls... and
the head smashed into pieces.... no... And I was so horrified I lifted
my arms up and dropped mine. So I had no dolls.... none at all... So
both the heads had gone.... Oh what a shame and your mum had gone to
all that trouble.... mm, yes, yes. Yeah, she w- she wasn’t- wasn’t
particularly good at sewing. But erm, she went to quite a bit of
trouble to try and make up for what wasn’t there.... Something- What
we couldn’t have.... What we didn’t have, exactly.... Yes.... But my
sister arriving in forty four. Everything went to her.... Er the- I- I
could not remember what a banana looked like. I hadn’t ever had one,
you see,... mm... that I could remember.... I can’t remember when I
was little, no. Because I was three in thirty nine. So when the
bananas came, erm-.... Now I don’t know how many there were, whether
there was only one, but my father- it had to be that had the
banana.... mm... I remember looking at this and thinking, ‘I wonder
what it really does taste like?’... really does taste like.... And I
didn’t find out, and I wonder why they did that in those days.... They
could’ve given you half each.... Could’ve given us half each,... mm...
yes... yes they could actually. Erm so everything went to . Erm but it
never affected me in any way.... Never bothered you, no I mean-.... I
was never jealous.... I was the first grandchild, spoilt. And then
there was and then was the first grandson. And he was spoilt.... mm,
mm, mm... But because I suppose my nanna and granddad- granddad in
particular with I was- me nanna was for me.... Me mum and dad tried to
make it up to . They gave her more.... mm, yes, yeah.... Like I went
to the grammar school, went to the grammar school, so erm- made sure
that went to .... Oh right, yes... And got a city and guilds in
erm-.... yes, catering, wasn’t it?... catering, yes.... yes, yeah...
And then of course, and... yes... came along later on.... Yes, a lot
later.... yes... But my grandparents lived in , as you know, and my
grandmother would give my half brother half a crow, which was quite a
bit of money.... Ooh a lot of money in those days.... And I was given
sixpence.... I never had what he had. Because he was the son,... son,
mm... you know, the grandson. And apparently my father used to get so
upset about it and so annoyed, he’d take me home and give me half a
crown.... mm, crown as well.... ahh, **inc**... Yes. Just to make it
up.... mm, cos we used to joke, you know me mum made a lot of our
clothes for and I.... Yes, yeah... And of course we’d say- course our
’s came from Kendal Mills... Yes, yeah. They were like that with
sons.... But erm- yes, yes.... For some reason and we’ve got far more
equality today.... mm... And you don’t treat your children any
different at whatever age.... No, me mum and dad didn’t really,
erm.... No.... Erm, because er- we’ve got a photograph of the three of
us and a friend of had knitted these fair-isle cardigans in two
ply.... mm, gosh.... and I had cardigans, had erm- I think it was a
v-neck sweater.... mm, mm... And me mum made sure that the three of us
had the same.... Yes. Yes, quality, mm, yeah.... Yes, yeah. Tried to
treat us all the same.... mm... But erm- now then, what did I help out
in the house a lot? Well I had to do.... yes I’m sure I did, I’m sure
we had to really.... Yes.... Didn’t we?... mm... Erm washing up was
always a pain, cos nobody wanted to dry.... no... It’s strange nobody
likes drying isn’t it?... No, no, nobody wanted to dry. So we used to
argue, the three of us, cos was too young.... mm... Erm and they used
to- did they have no washing up liquid Vivienne ?... Oh I don’t
remember washing up-.... It was Persil.... Persil, no washing up
liq-... We used to put washing powder in... really... and wash the
pots in washing powder.... I don’t remember washing up liquid....
No.... At all.... Oh they didn’t have it, no, no, and my mother-....
But when you think no washing up liquid, no washing machine, or things
like that.... No- no they boiled everything, didn’t they, in a
boiler,... mm... but I do remember my mother grating fairy soap, white
blocks- sorry green blocks of fairy soap.... Green blocks of fairy
soap.... And she would grate it into the dolly tub.... Yes.... Er with
boiling water so it melted,... yeah... an- and became-... so it would
clean the clothes properly.... mm, and then they-... And they always
washed on a Monday.... And ironed on a tuesday.... Yes, yes. If they
got it dry.... Yes, routine, routine... mm, was routine. And we had a
cellar, where my mother had clothes lines.... We had cellars.... And
she used to hang her clothes... mm... in the cellar to dry. And we did
have a very old coke burner down there for when the sirens went and
there was bombing.... Oh the sirens yes.... yeah and- and erm, my
grandfather had gone to the railways and he was a joiner, when he was
younger and lived in the Lake District. But he came down to live with
us and erm he went and got all these- erm, this- these pieces of wood
from the railway that- sleepers.... mm... And he propped the whole of
the ceiling of the cellar up in case we had an air-raid or a bomb-...
yes we had our own sort of shelter at four-two-seven.... yes... At
six-six-three you used to go down in the cellar.... yes... But erm I
remember my nan, my nanna and heard the sirens. Went down into the
cellar. came home from work to find them in the cellar. ‘What you
doing in the cellar?’ ‘Well you know, the sirens went.’ They’d gone
down for the all-clear, hadn’t they?... oh... and they’d been there
all morning.... marvellous, oh.... Oh dear.... oh... Little things
like that stick in your mind, don’t they?... Oh where were your- where
are you parents from, well mine are from the Lake District. Both
living in Windemere. Er back-to-back and never knew each other....
real-... Because my father was four years older than my mother. But
they didn’t find out until of course they met up, after his first wife
died.... mm... And my- my mother was engaged to erm a- a man who went
out to Canada and lost all his money on the crash-... Wall Street
crash.... crash.... And said, ‘well I’ve got to start again, I’ll send
for you,’... mm... and she said, ‘don’t bother I’m not waiting.’...
And meanwhile her best friend who was my father’s cousin, girl. Erm
just asked her if she’d like to co- go out, as a foursome because...
mm... my father had lost his wife... yeah... and she wanted to cheer
him up and that’s how I become-... mm... th- that’s how I ended up
sitting here talking today.... .... yes... If they’d never got
together I wouldn’t be here.... Well it’s true isn’t it?... yes....
You know.... Yes oh life is strange isn’t it? Mm... It is, because
always wanted- he did his national service and always wanted to stay
in the army.... Oh did he?... Yes he loved it. Absolutely loved it....
Oh so why didn’t he?... Because his mother and father said, ‘if you
stay in the army, that’s it you’ve no mother and father.’... You’re
joking!... No erm-.... What was the reason?... Because- well they
thought it was erm a reflection on them that he wanted to be away from
home.... Oh.... But they never really got on, he got on better with
his father than his mother,... mm... but then his father would say,
‘well if you’d stayed in the forces, you would never have met Vivienne
.’... mm... mm... And he said, ‘well I’m sure we would have done,’...
mm... ‘because we were meant to be together.’... mm... So it’s funny
how things work out, isn’t it?... Yes. Yes, was he an only one?... Oh
yes.... Oh... oh yes.... With a terrible mother.... really?...
Really?... Oh she was- .... Possessive? Controlling?... Yes and yet
she was in a way possessive, and yet she hadn’t got a lot of time for
him. So I could never weigh it all up. Nothing ever made sense....
mm... Erm and his father was away a lot on business. You know and if
he did anything wrong, ‘wait ‘til your father comes home!’... mm...
And one incident, he’d been smoking when he was about ten or eleven,
with a friend. Friend had a- parents had a pub and they went on the
flat roof and he was so ill. And of course his mother, ‘wait ‘til your
father comes home!’ and then when his father came home told him,
‘aren’t you going to give him a good hiding?’ So he said, ‘he’s learnt
his lesson.’... Mm.... mm... yeah... And he never really smoked
cigarettes again. Occasionally,... mmhmm... if lit up he’d say, ‘ooh I
just fancy one,’ and he’d have one.... mm... But he never went out and
bought a packet of cigarettes.... Mm, my parents didn’t smoke. But my
brother did, me half-brother did. And my half sister.... mm, no me dad
smoked but me mum couldn’t stand it.... No, no.... Couldn’t stand it.
I’ve never smoked.... No, no I haven’t.... has smoked but gave it up
some years ago.... mmhmm... Erm has the odd one, more a social-...
mm... doesn’t sit at home smoking.... mm... doesn’t smoke, doesn’t
smoke.... No.... Erm-.... mm, and actually my parents were tee-
total.... Were they?... Until my father got to eighty and then he used
to have his brandy in a morning, to keep his heart going he used to
say.... Well they used to say a drop of whiskey at night is good for
you.... Well yes, they did. Yes, yes, but erm... That’s my excuse if I
have one.... It’s good for me!... Oh but erm,... cos you read all
these things in the paper,... yes, yes... you know and glass of red
wine.... Well it’s beer today, apparently.... I know that was in the
paper the other day.... Giving- yeah keeping your heart going....
Don’t like beer.... I think I’ll do without, mm, mm... Don’t like beer
at all. No.... What are local people like? The people where I live-
well they’re all very nice really, it’s quite quiet, but it’s a- it’s
such a good area, I mean the house is up for sale, I can’t imagine why
nobody buys it.... mm... Because it’s such a super spot to be,...
mm... you’ve got the railway, you’ve got-.... mm, everything’s to hand
isn’t it, yes... Everything’s at hand, you’ve got sports centres,
you’ve got swimming pools, golf courses.... mm... You can get into
Manchester so quickly, and you can get onto the M- sixty- sixty two,
sixty-one, fifty six, in ten minutes.... mm, I think you’re better
placed than I am, in Irlam,... yes... because the buses are about-
they’re supposed to be every ten minutes but they’re not... mm... and
there’s only really one into Manchester.... mm... And there’s another
one that goes through Manchester into the Trafford centre, or the
Trafford centre into Manchester. And they’re about the only two....
Yes and the- the thing about the Trafford centre is- it- I didn’t like
it when it was first built,... mm... I thought it would kill off all
the sho- local shops, which it did.... mm... But I do enjoy going and
I go at least twice a week.... mm... And I don’t particularly buy erm,
but I c-... if I want to, everything’s there.... You can, yeah,
yeah... I’ll just go because it’s very nice inside and you can have a
nice coffee and a cake on a morning.... In John Lewis, yes, mm... Yes.
And er- and I do quite enjoy going and it’s just so quick to get there
and to park and-.... It is, it’s no problem.... It’s just no problem,
so that’s a great advantage to this area to me.... mm... yes... I’ve
never been into Manchester for years and I don’t think I ever will
really. I’ve got- There’s nothing there for me.... Well I go into
Manchester erm, normally every Thursday to meet two friends I used to
work with many years ago at ICI.... Oh right. Yes, yes... And then I
meet another friend every other week on a Wednesday,... mm, right...
that I used to work with at ICI.... mmhmm... So but normally I park in
Marks and Spencers and then on a Thursday have lunch in Marks, just a
sandwich. One friend moans the whole of the time... mm, mm... about
the quality and the standard and the noise, cos it is noisy in Marks
and Spencers.... mm... Oh right.... Now if that particular friend
doesn’t come, er and I will go to ,... mm... which is erm an Austrian
patisserie.... ooh... Ooh you should see the cakes!... Mm, very
nice.... Oh lovely. Erm then when I go with we go to the . Where you
can have a three course lunch for six pounds fifty.... ahh... That’s
good.... Yeah.... mm... And I might walk through the Arndale centre...
mm... erm, couple of times recently I have had a bit of a walk round
the Arndale but I’ve been looking for specific shops.... mm... And
there everything seems that little bit bigger... mm... than in the
Trafford centre.... Trafford centre, yes.... And on Sunday, and I and
we’d taken back to w- erm the station, erm we went into... the Arndale
and I think- I can’t remember what we were looking for. But I was
surprised, it was a Sunday and I was able to park in Marks and
Spencers car park.... Oh right.... It’s not cheap, parking in-...
mm... and it does add-... mm... it adds to me lunch when I go. I used
to go on the bus.... mm, yes.... But you get on the bus and then
there’s these girls that get on with their buggies,... mm, mm... mm...
dripping in cheap jewellery,... not a ring in sight, and oh. If
smoking was allowed they’d be smoking.... mm.... mm... I’m not a
snob... no... but you know, you do have certain standards don’t
you?... I think it’s the way we were brought up Maureen , respect....
Probably.... In those days.... Yeah. Yes probably.... You respected
your teachers and-... mm... and we went to church and Sunday school,
didn’t we?... Yes we did. We certainly did.... And then the pictures
after church on a Sunday night sometimes, the Palladium.... Terribly
naughty.... When you think about it.... mm, yes we used to go on to
the pictures after we’d been to church.... mm. And we’d done our duty,
hadn’t we?... we’d been to church.... Well, definitely! Yes those were
the days.... Happy days.... But I think, I remember it being more
difficult for food, clothes and everything else after nineteen forty
five. Because that’s when it was really difficult, when they put bread
on rationing. That was awful.... Yes because rationing went on for
quite some time, didn’t it?... It went to about fifty two I think....
Yes it went on for some time.... But it went worse- I don’t think we
probably got the help from America that we’d had during the war.... Or
thought we were going to get.... Yes.... That’s right.... yeah I think
so, mm.... Because there was the air base in Warrington wasn’t there?
Burtonwood... Yes. The Americans, mm.... erm and I know a friend of my
auntie’s went out with one of the airmen... mm... and er- he used to
take to erm , girlfriend, loads of sweets and things.... Yeah....
mm... So you know we had sweets.... Yes.... in that way.... Yes....
But it was a long time before things were really back to normal....
Anything like- well, above- above the counter.... That’s right... And
on show, everything was under the counter.... yeah.... Nothing was on
show. No food was on show.... And I know we had a chicken nearly ever
week and it was a friend of my granddad’s and me dad’s, used to get
these live chickens... mm... and they were in Pendleton, and I had to
go on the bus and bring back this chicken.... Dead chicken, was it
plucked?... Alive Maureen !... Oh you didn’t!... I did.... And I’d no
choice, I had to do it.... How did you carry it?... It used to be in a
bag, and... I’d be sitting on the bus, terrified in case it made a
noise.... Our would say that he did it, but if he did it, I don’t
remember. It was me, because I was the eldest.... He might have come
on the odd occasion to keep me company.... mm... But in the main, it
was me. So we always had-.... Can I ask you,... chicken... did you eat
any of it when you got home?... Oh once me mum had killed it and
cleaned it and everything.... And prepared it, oh... And it- mainly
boiling **inc**.... yes, yes... And she used to make beautiful chicken
soup.... yes... And erm our always had the best of the chicken. And me
mum would hide it under his rice, so that and I couldn’t see it....
Really? Oh that’s not right at all is it?... But that’s how it was, he
got the best.... It was, yes, he did.... And er- I mean we laugh about
it,... mm... and the thing is, although we know that he was in a way
favoured, it never, has never-... Any animosity between you.... No....
mm... mm... There’s never been any jealousy among us.... no....
Between the five of us, at all really.... mm, mm, my mother lived on a
farm, erm, and my grandfather was a bailiff.... Oh yes.... Which was-
it- you know he- he rented and he worked for the farmer and it was in
Warrington, cos he came down all the way from the Lake District, how
they got down I’ve no idea.... No, no motorways.... But they always-
no and they were on this farm called , which is still there in- in
Warrington, Daresbury actually.... Yeah mm.... And my mother went to
school at Daresbury village. And erm she said that my father- my
grandfather always had- if they had an egg, they only got the top off
the egg,... and gra- and her father got the whole egg.... Cos he was
the working- he was working.... Yes, yes.... and he was providing....
mm, mm... And she said there was ce-... there were- there were lots of
vegetables, and she said, ‘he never took anything that wasn’t his’....
no... And she said, ‘we could’ve lived really well if he’d just- taken
a few of these veggies and brought them home.’... Yeah, vegetables,
mm... But he never did. Never took anything that wasn’t theirs they
were so honest.... Wasn’t theirs.... Mm, then they went back of
course, went back to erm-.... The Lake District.... Yes went back to
Ulverston, mm... mm, I was looking at the Lake District on the telly
the other night, erm- did you watch it?... Yes, yes I did actually,
I’d seen it before.... Yes, I’ve seen it before but I watched it
again.... Yes, yes... Erm and I thought, ‘oh we did have some nice
little **inc** breaks up in the lake district.’... Yes. My cousin that
still lives there, erm her grandson is erm- well his girlfriend, who
lives on , which is the island that nobody’s- it’s private.... mmhmm,
yes, in the middle bit... Erm-.... I’ve often wondered if anybody
lived there.... yes, it’s a beautiful house... Is it, mm, mm... It’s
the that have got that. The people who had the insurance company,
insurance company.... mm, oh... And they bought the island and they
live there. And this is their daughter. And she swam the English
channel about two weeks ago.... Did she?... For charity, yes.... She’s
a st- I think she’s a student now, I- I th- - I’m not sure whether-
she’s got two grandsons, and I’m not sure whether this particular
grandson is the one that’s living locally in Manchester,... oh... come
down from the Lake District erm cos there are two of them and I do get
them confused and they’re both at university, or one has finished....
mm, mm, yes, yeah.... But this girlfriend, yeah she swam the English
channel. Yes.... swam the channel.... Cos she- she let me know the
other week about it, yeah.... mm, what about hat older lady swimming
it? And kept going off course?... I know... Oh did she, I’ve no- I
didn’t see that.... Yeah and I’ve forgot- I’ve forgotten how long it
took her,... ooh... but she did it. But it took her hours and
hours.... The English Channel?... Hours and hours and hours.... You’ve
got the jellyfish problem with the English Channel.... I know....
haven’t you, really? Mm,... yeah... Oh gosh.... No it was nice,
watching the Lake District, yes... Yes very beautiful if it’s not
raining.... Ooh, the very first time we went on the Friday afternoon,
it was raining so hard.... mm... ‘Oh what have we done, why have we
come?’ But then Saturday and Sunday it was glorious.... mm, mm,
beautiful, mm... Absolutely.... Mm, they’ve had very bad weather this
last winter.... Mm with the snow and everything.... Yes a lot of- yes,
yeah and rain.... I mean that’s why I can’t understand the reservoirs
being so low.... No but... When we’ve had so much snow.... My cousin,
when she was telling me about these- this er grandson’s girlfriend.
Erm she said, ‘oh you wouldn’t believe how low they are.’ She said,
‘we’ve been out and we’ve been looking and they’re extremely low.’
mm... I know when we used to drive over to Harrogate erm on the
M-sixty- two, we always looked at one reservoir, Time... mm... ‘oh
it’s a bit low this y- this week.’... mm... Do you know the one I
mean?... Yeah, yeah I go that way.... Yes and er we’d be sort of, ‘oh
there’s going to be a water shortage.’... mm... mm... mm... our had to
defy the hosepipe ban before.... He what, sorry?... Had to defy the
hosepipe ban. Because our got all dog’s poo on his shoes.... oh, oh...
And so he had to swill them down.... Did he? I hope this is not being
used in evidence against him... for a thousand pounds.... I never
thought about that... Oh dear.... Confessions.... Confessions, yes....
mm, well I mean, I use my hosepipe to fill my watering can and my gra-
my son-in-law said, ‘you can’t do that it’s illegal.’ I said,
‘rubbish. It can’t be illegal.’ But I’ll tell you one thing. This
hosepipe ban is so ridiculous cos you waste more money- sorry more
water.... More water.... In a watering can.... yeah... Well I think
so, Maureen too.... Because you’re being- it’s pouring out and...
yes... and if it was coming out as a spray... a spray... and a shower,
it would go into the flowers and everything quicker.... Yes, yeah...
But it’s just going over the tops and- and going on the- one the road.
On the pavements.... I think it’s worse.... mm... I think it’s
silly.... Mm, I do. Yes, but still.... I can understand them saying
the hosepipe ban for washing cars at home.... Well at home but what
about these-... but you can still-... can you still take them to
the-?... Oh yes you can still take them to these places.... yeah...
Places to have them cleaned. Oh right, right. I didn’t realise
that.... I mean the gardeners that I have, said that he’d looked it up
on the erm internet... mmhmm... and it was so complicated, what you
could, what you couldn’t do,... oh yes, yes,... that in the end, he
gave up.... mm.... United utilities saying one thing, somebody else
saying something else, and he thought, ‘just don’t get it.’... mmhmm,
mm, no. Well my- I’ve got one hanging basket, beautiful... mm...
because it’s rained on it and the other one is slightly under the
porch... mm... at the front door and it’s dead.... ahh... And never
bothered watering it. So I’ve had to get it down and just let the tap
run on it,... mm... so that’s wasted a lot of water.... Yeah, yeah,
yeah.... Today, whether it will revive, I don’t think it will.... mm,
c- It will, it will cos they said to me on Tuesday, I said, ‘I know
what you’re going to say,’ I said, ‘well you see it has rained so I
thought to myself ‘I don’t need to water them,’... mm... ooh... But
you still need to water them, so-.... Oh gosh you do because it
doesn’t get through.... no... It only stays on the top.... yes... Hmm,
how are we doing?