One, two, three, four, five. Well, it was a- Yeah, there’s lots of
restaurants in Urmston and there’s parks for the kids. And, well
you’ve got the Trafford centre anyway, that’s not so far away, haven’t
you? So I think everything you need really is there. You got the
laserquest and all that business, haven’t you? that you can go to. No
I’m going to me mum’s. Right, Ok, so, talking about childhood, we both
grew up only really five minutes walk away from each other. So the
sort of things that we used to do are probably quite similar. Except,
that, for the first- up until being the- six I lived erm in **anon**
which was different. Because- different to you. Because we were- there
were so many of us really cos I was- come from a family of five
children, that instead of playing out with friends we tended not
really to- to want to go outside, cos there was always gonna be one of
us to play with. So we’d always play in the back yard, it was always
ball games. Against the wall generally. Things like, we used to have a
game called ‘donkey’ which was throwing a ball against a wall and
jumping over it. Which- Which kept us amused for hours. You know,
rounders, there was always enough of us to have a team. So we didn’t
really need other people, whereas I know that you were always out with
lots of other friends. But you used to play making like go-karts and
things like that, And what was- can you think of anything that was
very funny that happened to you when you were young? yeah see we never
did anything like that but we used to get, erm- ma- mind you we were
in trouble for it. We got mattress going down the stairs. Because we
were always in- s- sort of in the house. Or outside, so we would
always be messing about inside really. Playing hide and seek, just
things like that EOS Yeah right whereas we just used to play
imaginative games as well, cos we were always dressed up, erm, in me
mum’s clothes EOS Because I always, always wanted long hair. And my
mum used to always keep our hair very short. And one day somebody said
to me- called me, ‘sonny.’ And from then on I always wanted to pretend
I had long hair. So I used to wear tights on my head, with bows on the
EOS Did you ever get hurt while playing when you were a kid? Once I- I
broke- broke my arm. And that was- well it wasn’t broke actually it
was erm, sort of badly bruised but it was like a crack or something, I
don’t know in the bone. But it wasn’t particularly- it wasn’t
definitely broken. But anyway it was because me and **anon** my sister
were waiting for my other sister **anon** to come out of school. And
there was a moat running round the side- it- well it was called the
moat, erm, out- outside of the school. Erm I think it was all to do
really with- that they were knocking down a lot of erm houses near
where we lived. Erm, erm and there was like bricks and things
everywhere. And it was just like a trench, I think that was what it
was. But we used to call it the moat. And of course I was like trying
to walk along the side of it and I fell in EOS And erm- and erm
**anon** had to come and get me out. Take me to erm, to hospital. So
that was the worst thing that happened to me. Yeah I mean, one of the
dangerous things that we used to do, I mean thinking about it now was
going into these houses, cos they were derelict houses. So they were
only like half standing. And there’s p- some houses actually had a
staircase that you would still be able to walk up, even though there
was no floor. Or half a floor at the top. And on the way home from
school sometimes we would always go in these houses, erm, and sort of
try and have a bit of an, you know, investigate what’s going on. But
really when I think about it, it’s just so dangerous. But I didn’t
know anybody who- even though- I mean we all used to play in these-
erm these houses all on- the- the Crofts, they used to be called. And
that would be like where a house was completely EOS And so all’s what
was left was like bricks on the floor, and glass and things. Erm but I
mean everybody used to cut across crofts. Adults used to, you know it
wasn’t just the kids. And there used to be like pass- path- pathways
that went through because it was a shortcut to wherever you lived. Erm
and I fell over there ones and I got a scar where I actually fell on
some glass. but erm that’s how it was and then everybody moved to sort
of like, certain areas in Manchester. And it just so happened that
**anon**, a lot of the community was moved to **anon**, and that was
when we moved- To **anon** which was round the corner from where you
are. But some were moved to- I think there’s Wythenshawe, wasn’t it?
And erm so there was a big new estate right up in Northern Manchester,
it was a Hattersley. And-. Which was absolutely- it was lovely when it
was very first done. But now it’s s- it’s just so rough up there,
isn’t it? The estate EOS And that was where- wasn’t that where Myra
Hindley was and Ian Brady? So that would have been earlier. Yeah,
because I’m talking about sixt- sixty eight, something like that. So
there was er- so that- can you remember a good story that your parents
or grandparents used to tell you? Eh, well my- well my mum still
telling stories now. That’s just to make things- she likes to
embroider things. but tells a good yarn EOS I remember my mum te-
still tells the story of when she went back to Belfast and she was
erm- during the war and they were moved from Manchester back over to
Belfast cos of the bombing in Manchester and she thought it was really
exciting when you were given a- a Mae West and a whistle, in case the
submarines sank your-your ship and she- Yeah I used to like stories
that me mum told me because me mum is- was really quite a naughty
girl, and erm- but she used to make me laugh. Because she was tell-
cos her dad was erm, a Welsh Baptist preacher. And she used to sit in
the back, in the pew that was for the family whittling her name in the
wood . Which isn’t a good thing, and if he only knew, he’d have gone
EOS So that’s funny. No, whereas we didn’t really- me- cos me dad died
when er I was only two, and so me mum didn’t have a lot of money, she
went to work, back to work. And so in school holidays, we used to get
sent to erm my Gran’s house, who lived in Wales, or erm, I used to go
to an Auntie’s who lived in erm well first of all Wales and then on to
Blackpool. Erm so we would always be together. And we used to just go
on the beach. All of us, or- go on the mountains and just run around
and just go wild really. **anon** gran used to give us a good
breakfast and say she didn’t want to see us back again till teatime.
And we didn;t want to go back till tea. So that was always good times.
Erm that’s- I don’t remember primary school them being weird and
wonderful. They were actually quite sweet. There was one who was a bit
strange called **anon**, who used to have a double row of teeth at the
bottom. Erm like EOS I don’t really know why but she did. erm, she was
very scary, real old-school erm- little glasses on the end of her
nose. She looked like something like a caricature of erm a little old
fashioned teacher, with a bun, erm, but apart form that I- I think the
primary school was- they were really quite sweet but at secondary
school they- well most of them were nuns. Erm cos I went to **anon**,
so, erm, and I think the- I still think it’s quite a strange thing to
just you know, lock yourself away as a woman, and just become a
teacher, because I don’t really think that erm they would know much
about life. And they- they- even though they would know their subject,
I think sometimes they were at a loss to deal with teenage girls, erm
EOS and any problems that anybody might have. You know so erm, I think
sometimes the- they weren’t very EOS Or they didn’t really have a lot
to say other than their subjects. Erm so I thought that was quite
strange. And the- the, erm, head teacher was a nun and the deputy head
teacher was a nun and the deputy head teacher, **anon** used to just
send fear into everybody’s hearts. And erm- just used to- but erm the
punishments weren’t ever shouting at, it was all to do with erm- it
was all to do with church. I used to have to go and pray for
forgiveness quite a few times. What sorts of things did you like at
school? To do, extra activities. I used to like erm, hockey, I was erm
quite sort of feisty I was very- I was quite little really erm for a
long time and- but I was quite EOS and I used to just love going
whooshing up and down the fields, cos it was the one thing that I
actually thought that I was pretty good at. I don’t know if I was good
but I used to feel I was good at it, and erm- I don’t think they
expected- perhaps they didn’t see me coming, I don’t know but I used
to manage to get a few goals in. So it was okay. And I loved drama, I
liked music. I still like music now, I still like music and I still
like drama. And I just like to- I like to- to escape from er- it w- it
was all a bit humdrum erm and I used to like all the colours and I
used to get involved in the lighting and things like that. And I
thought that was erm, that was interesting. No I remember our drama
teacher, **anon** who was my absolute favourite teacher. And the
reason why I liked her was because she just- she was all perfume and
scarves, and erm curly hair, and she was very, very pretty, and was
very, very loud, and used to laugh like mad at everything people said.
But erm she was lovely and she was the one who said that I should
really go to some sort of drama school. And that- but of course me mum
looked into it and she didn’t have the money to send me. So she
looked- she wrote a letter to the council to see if they would give y-
me some sort of grant EOS but nothing ever came of it. So that- you
know I- I think I always felt a bit let down by that, cos I felt that
that was the way that I would have liked to have gone. And I think
it’s quite nice in a way that erm my niece is- **anon** is erm going
in that direction. It’s almost like sort of next step, Yeah I do, er
don’t remember- there’s- it’s- it’s sort of snatches really that I
remember of **anon** really. Erm but I remember being very excited
when we came to **anon**. And we came to see the house for the first
time and it was dark, it must been in the winter, because it was EOS
yeah because it was just sort of after tea time, and it was dark. And
we’d only ever had a back yard. And then we had the entry that ran
down the side of the house and that was where we used to play. There
was nothing wrong with it, it was just you know. That was just where
we used to play outside. And erm it had this huge big garden. And the
garden was all a bit sort of overgrown and things and er I went out,
and even though it was dark I just wanted to- and as I was walking
along the grass I was doing steps to see how many steps it would take
me to get to the fence. And it just seemed like forever. Was just huge
EOS erm, and I was really excited because erm me mum said she’d get me
a- a swing, erm, which me uncle made cos everything was made, and er-
he made me this swing, that I used to spend hours on. So I just
thought it was just huge, huge great big house, when in actual fact it
wasn’t, it’s just that that’s how it felt. mm, yeah he did. And er the
other thing that erm my uncle made me was erm, a wendy house in the
back garden, erm which I really, really liked. And I used to have
little teacups and things like that. So basically then- but as I got
older erm that was when the first time really that I started actually
going- playing outside and going to see friends. Cos I must’ve been
then- well when I was allowed t- to play out, maybe about twelve. So I
never had it when I was younger cos that was just when we were playing
with EOS everybody who was in the house. Erm but then we used to sort
of g- go out then because it was like four years between me and my
next sister. So that would mean that if I was about eleven, **anon**
was about fifteen, and she was obviously EOS not then wanting to play
EOS hide and seek with me. So er- so that’s when we first started
going EOS Roller skates and things like that. But I think that’s
probably because a lot of people had moved in as EOS Because to move
in- to get a council house you generally had children, didn’t you?
Otherwise you might have been moved into a flat. So I think it’s when
they were moving whole communities that that’s where we were all- sort
of seemed to be sort of similar age groups EOS The families seemed to
have children sim- similar ages. And it seems funny that- I mean the
community- I mean **anon**, what you looking at, say about four miles
away? yeah, and the whole- because whole communities moved at once,
some of our neighbours that were actually on our street- cos it was a
bit of a- quite a large Irish community, wasn’t it in **anon**? It was
erm- and some of our neighbours, who lived there, actually still live-
you know, in **anon** now. Sort of round the corner cos we all sort of
moved en masse. So erm- it seems funny that although my mum has moved
away, you know she went from **anon** to **anon** and then on- on from
there. That when she comes back to this area, that she’s still bumping
into old EOS Original neighbours from **anon**. and also- it was
rubbish when you- when you think about it, you were actually living in
rubble. Well you weren’t your house was in the middle maybe of - And
then the next road had been flattened. So you know it wasn’t good
conditions t- to live in. So- and me mum used to say and I know this
wasn’t very nice and I don’t remember it as a- as a child, but my mum
used to say that there was lots of erm mice EOS erm and I suppose that
maybe there would be. So- what do you think- er have changed or what
important changes have taken place in our town? Well I suppose
thinking about it, one of the major changes is the Trafford centre.
Isn’t it? erm, I actually think EOS Yeah, I mean really it’s- I- and I
mean a lot of people don’t like it, I don’t really know why because I
just think it’s erm- it’s brought a lot of work into the area. Erm
people are coming in, so you’ve got money that’s coming in- into EOS
It’s er ideal for- for us, I mean I just love the fact that it’s round
the corner. Er you’ve got the pictures, you’ve got the restaurants, so
I can’t really see a problem with it at all. Lots of different- yeah.
Oh God, I did on Saturday. . yeah I do too. Yeah I mean I know it’s
not a finished thing yet but one of the- it- it’s- it’s good that
they’re keeping the- the small shops as well. Because like- well we’ve
got photographs of I don’t know, what a hundred years ago? And it
doesn’t- really there’s parts of it that you would still EOS As being
Urmston now and I think that’s important. Because it- it’s part of the
history of the time EOS Yeah, but I think there is a community in
Urmston. Erm it think that they’ve got some good schools, which makes
people stay in the same EOS Erm they’ve got good secondary schools so
again, you’re moving from infant, junior to secondary school EOS
without the need to move, that some people do have to move around for
EOS good education for their children, whereas we’re lucky enough to
have EOS Erm and so that sort of makes a communities EOS spirits carry
on. Erm local events, such as that fiesta, Urmston fiesta but even so,
it’s still good. Wasn’t there an Urmston carnival? So you see, it’s
things like that, so they are still trying EOS and of course, you’ve
got the round table, you’ve got the rotary. Is it the round table or
the rotary club, I think it’s probably the same thing actually. Erm,
again that’s based in Urmston. So you’ve got that going on as well.
That, you now people going round. You’ve got lots of social clubs as
well. I mean I know we’ve not really- we don’t really go to them. But
you’ve got like the labour club. Which is the one up the road?
**anon** I don’t know if that’s labour or what. Right. Okay but you’ve
got the conservative club up here, you’ve got the one next to Urmston
grammar. So there’s a few places to go. But it’s- it’s funny to think
that erm- in Altrincham people seem to know Urmston. People come in to
Urmston to use the- you know to go to the restaurants. So even though
it’s a teeny tiny place, it’s almost- it’s still a place to come to.
Which is er quite unique I would say EOS and you wonder really whether
any local cinemas are going to stay. Cos there’s that many big cinemas
now, with all the different. You know erm facilities really to be able
to have so many films on at once, that it’s not likely. The what,
**anon**? Yes well they’ve got something like that in Manchester
haven’t they? The corner house. In his sweaty vest. Well, no I’ve got
four haven’t I? I’ve got one brother and three sisters. And did we get
along when we were kids? Generally, yeah EOS Yeah I think we did. Erm
**anon** was- we used to do as we were told with **anon** cos he was
always the babysitter, although he wasn’t the eldest, erm he was the
second eldest. But even **anon** who is the eldest used to do as she
was told from him. So- but apart from that- but he was never horrible,
he just used to erm- if we didn’t get the number right on united’s
football team, on the- . He used to shout . Erm I used to really look
forward to Saturday nights because that was when me mum and me uncle
use to go out. They used to go to bingo. And er they used to- that was
when we used to get our spends. So we always used to get some sweets.
and watch whatever we liked on the tv. And then we always used- they
used to come in about ten o’clock and although I was probably too
young then, I used to sort of pretend I used to join in but I don’t
really remember it so I’m sure I was up in bed before then. Erm but
they used to always scuttle up to bed about ten minutes before they
were due home, Do you think you were spoilt because you were the only
boy? Did you have to help out around the house? Cos you were spoilt
EOS No we used to- we used to have jobs. But we didn’t think- it
wasn’t sort of unfair. Erm mine wasn’t much of a job, cos I was the
little one. So mine was to put the milk bottles out after they’d been
washed. I know, it wasn’t difficult. But once-. Well once I got into
trouble because I went to take the milk bottles out and this was about
seven o’clock after dinner. And erm I was only EOS And I don’t know
what- I think I’ve heard something, some music or something like that.
And decided to go walking to see what the music was. Only I just
actually got lost. I was only little and erm I don’t remember much
about it. I just remember walking and walking and walking. And then
finally being picked up by the police. And the police brought me home.
And I can remember sitting in the police station sitting on top of a
counter, a big counter erm eating smarties. And I thought it was
fantastic. And then I came home in a police car. But I don’t really
remember- I think I was- must’ve been very young I’m sure I must’ve
only been about four or five. So even little, really young, I still
had a job to do which was the milk bottles EOS But even after that, we
just used to share it really. Because me mum used to work so our only
other job were things like we always used to erm- I used to vac- we
didn’t used to have a vac, we used to have erm, what are they called?
And the Ewbank- I used to have a- my job was to do that every night,
which was just the rugs really. C And erm **anon** job was to- oh no
that was **anon** job was to peel the spuds. I can’t remember what-
I’m sure **anon** used to get off scot- free. No, I’m sure she didn’t,
but anyway. So that was er- we all had a job each. And it was
generally to make the tea EOS for when me mum came home. And then me
mum used to finish it off EOS I mean the thing is, it’s- it’s qu- you
know like everyone now is like sort of, if they’ve got a big family
it’s all a big deal of how they gonna feed them and they need to be on
all sorts of benefits. But really, my mum used to just do big, cheap,
nutritious meals EOS that would put some people to shame I think now.
You know I mean great big- er we always used to have like a proper
meat and veg or erm if we were gonna have fish it was that smoked
finny haddock, cos it’s cheap. Or she used to make great big stews
always- it always used to be something like a casserole, or something
like that. Or the one thing that I used to love that she did was er
mince beef and onion pie. And she used to do this huge great big thing
and then we used to have that with new potatoes that came from a tin,
which is funny. Don’t know why she used to do that. But I think they
must have been cheap. But they were like little bullets, they were
horrible. erm, yeah but we always used to have this big minced beef
and onion pie, which was just lovely. so, er I think she did these ti-
those tinned potatoes EOS as like a treat really. But I d- never used
to like them. No we didn’t cos there were too many of us so- we
would’ve had to have all these tins. I remember when erm Vesta curries
first came in. And er **anon** and **anon** used to have them cos it
was like really EOS And er I used to just- the smell of curry was
really quite different. And I used to think he was so modern,
**anon**, you know, really hippy having this curry. Chow mein, that’s
the one **anon** used to have. And it had like crisps on the top, like
quavers. And she used to sizzle them in the chip pan. I just used to
think that was- but I didn’t ever think that I was grown up enough EOS
to have these, I think I used to think it was something, ‘when I’m a
teenager, I’m going to have a curry.’ EOS Like a bread base or
something. Like cheese on toast EOS No well it did sometimes for us
but we’d have these- I wonder where the hell she got those tinned
potatoes from? Because they were just there all the time. I can
remember when erm- I know it’s- well you wouldn’t even think it now,
but when yoghurts first came in. When it first came in, I mean you
know when it started getting EOS And er it was ski yoghurts, they were
the ones to have. And er me mum used to do a weekly shop. And as a
treat, like you would bring home a cream cake, it would be, ‘right
would you like a yoghurt? Which one would you like?’ EOS And I would
always have strawberry. And **anon** would always have EOS And I used
to think- I used to feel a bit sorry for her because clearly
strawberry was going to be the best. Tinned- yeah tinned. Tinned
pears, yeah. Well going back to these tinned potatoes, me uncle used
to bring home, and I think it’s from bingo, I’m not quite sure where
he got them from. And it was trays and trays of tins. Only they didn’t
have labels on them. Well they did but they were all white. So you
didn’t actually know what you were having. So you might have opened
it, hoping for some peaches and it would be a tin of carrots. Or
something like that . So sometimes- so then if you’d opened a couple
of tins of carrots, looking for your peaches, obviously that was what
your meal would have been the next day. Something with- and that’s how
we used to work it. No. Never used to have anything like that. Me mum
was a bit funny about sausages. Which is probably why I’m a bit funny
about them now, and she still doesn’t eat them. yeah, yeah, no, she-
she- We never had anything like that, not that we did anything that
was horrible or anything, the food we had was lovely but-. We never
had things like beefburgers or anything because we didn’t have a
fridge, that was the reason as well. Although I know those are tinned
EOS Cos erm we just used to keep everything in the pantry, which was
cold and then in the summer the milk used to be in big saucepans of
cold water. We used to just have to change the water, make it cold. It
used to work I don’t remember anything being- going off. No, cos it
was not really big supermarkets, was it, it was just like your local
shops really.