... You need to count to five.... One, two, three, four, five.... And
Veronica .... go on, it’s gonna be horrible this... Go on!... One,
two, three, four, five.... Yeah that’s fine, okay off you go...
Okay.... Er were there lots of kids with you when you were playing up?
Playing up, growing up... Er not partic- not particularly cos I lived
like down one of the back streets, so I think there was about six kids
on our road and they were all different ages but we all still played
together.... Oh that’s- that’s nice... what was the best or funniest
memory from when you were young?... Erm funniest? I can’t think of a
funny time... Erm oh when me and and like they were my best friends
when I was really young and we were having a sleep over at mine. It’s
not gonna sound funny now... but erm having a sleepover at mine and I
used to have big glass doors going into the conservatory.... yeah...
And we pulled the curtains across while went upstairs and closed the
doors and erm she was running away from something and ran straight
into the doors... oh no... and onto the floor it was very funny at the
time... What was yours erm funniest childhood memory then?... I don’t
think erm- I don’t remem- remember having much memories of when I was
a kid actually.... I genuinely don’t, I think I took too many knocks
on my head when I was younger... aww E: I think one of the best ones
is that- Mum told me the other day, it was when she used to go down to
spa at she used to put me in my little trike, and I used to- she said
I used to just cycle along like this, going crazy with the li- the
shopping in the front basket,... aww... just going, peddling and
peddling and peddling. I used to think I was superman **inc**... So
fast going everywhere, used to run everywhere.... yeah... How many
sis- how many brothers and sisters do you have, do you get-... Er two
sisters.... Do you get along?... no.... No .... Well we do at times
like we have our moments. We love each other on days and hate each
other on other days.... Just cos we share a room I think it gets a bit
intense at times.... yeah... It’s not too bad though is it? You just
argue a hell of a lot... and you’re all stubborn, it’s well
annoying... What funny things are there to do in your community? Not
funny, fun... What- what did you say? There’s not a lot to do but now
like we’ve all got a bit older and we can all start driving and stuff,
we can obviously go further away and there’s obviously quite a lot of
things to do. Bit of golf when it gets a bit boring.... But no-one-
no-one ever goes down with me... You’re obsessed now with the driving
range... There’s football and stuff but whatever floats your boat
really. I’m easily entertained I think. Erm are you going on holiday
this year?... Yeah with you !... where are you going?... We’re going
erm, to Catalonia in Greece.... Catalonia.... yeah... yeah... What,
isn’t it Catalonia?... Yeah.... What’s it called?... You said Cat- you
said Catalonia.... Catalonia.... It’s Catalonia, just- carry on!...
anyway we’re going Catalonia,... ruining it... on Tuesday for a
week.... Erm it’s got like the blue lagoon and stuff and nice beaches
and turtle beaches.... very nice... Hopefully it’ll be good weather
for us.... Yeah.... It’s ninety at the minute.... wow... Ooh- ooh,
can’t wait! Er what extra activities did you get involved in at
school?... Erm trampolining at . Er we did- that’s all I ever did
trampolining and dance... were you a boring kid when you were growing
up?... I wasn’t boring I was just er had other things to do.... Such
as?... shut up!... No you say something you got to elaborate on it....
What extra curricular activities did you do?... Erm, depends at
primary school there wasn’t much to do so I just did erm, played a bit
of- dabbled in a bit of rounders and... ooh... and then realised it’s
for girls and then started playing football more. And then mum used to
drive me to swimming every week and like that... Didn’t she used to
make you go for runs?... That was later on,... when she thought I was
putting on a bit... Bit of a slave-driver... What kind of games did
you play as a kid?... Erm it depends where we went really, like at
school there was always bulldog and stuff,.... I love bulldog?... and
football and catch... pretty boring things tig what about you?... erm,
tig, but some people call it tag... yeah... But I call it tig. Erm
hopscotch, skipping erm British bulldog erm, rounders, hide and
seek... Hide and seek?... Yes I played hide and seek, all-... in a
square playground... it doesn’t ask what you played at school.... Ooh,
oh right. .... Erm what was the one where you had to get back to a
place? Like you were on two teams and one team had to catch you before
you got back to-.... Manhunt.... Manhunt. And that’s around it
really.... Ah that’s good then... What do you remember from your first
day at secondary school?... Erm-.... Or grammar whichever one.... On
the first day of grammar I was like on the verge of having a panic
attack, I was so nervous!... really?... I was feeling really sick and
like cos I’d like never been with boys before like,... I hadn’t been
with boys for like five years cos I went to an all girl’s school. Erm
so it was just like really weird to go into a different environment of
like a mixed school.... mm... So I was nervous.... oh, it wasn’t that
bad though, was it?... Oh and fainted... really?... in assembly and I
had to hold her up against the wall.... Why? Just-... Erm, I don’t
know it was the very first day of assembly and like we all line up
around the walls. Erm she just fainted in the middle of it. And I was
having to hold her up cos I didn’t know what to do, it was awful. I
think I cried a bit.... cos she was my only friend and she’d fainted,
it was awful.... How would you describe erm the local people?... Local
people?... Yeah, you know, like... Well, from where I live it’s quite
rough at the end of my road. But on my street itself it’s quite
peaceful and nice. Erm friendly, everyone says hello to each other
like, known them all our lives really. Erm but at the other end of the
road-.... The dark side of the road.... It’s a bit different .... Come
to the dark side!... No it’s scary at the other end of the road....
Like when you walk past, like they don’t look at you, they don’t like
give you that little smile that other strangers might do, it’s
weird.... Oh right, okay, did-... mm... did you ever go caravanning
when you were a kid or camping?... I used to go camping, yeah and we
used to travel France.... oh, **inc**... Erm camp- going Eurocamp with
the family. But never really did caravanning. Didn’t you?... Yeah we
were hardcore caravanners... We were! I remember the first one we went
to, we went to Dorset and erm, in the middle of the night, this dog
started barking on the campsite... oh no... and we looked out the
window and there was erm- the ca- caravan opposite was on fire cos
so-... Are you joking?... No someone had a chip pan and they had a
fire and they put the wrong blanket over and it just went, ‘.’... oh
no... Up in smoke and the a- the awning was going crazy and the guy
was out but-.... Did the fire brigade come?... Yeah they did,
obviously cos it was a fire... oh, no necessarily, it could have been
a small one.... No it was really good one, it was a good holiday that
actually, we went erm on fossil beach. Not fossil beach it’s like a
beach with all like erm clay,... mm... sandstone walls... and erm it
had like, what are they called? The little snail things that they
had.... Your fossils.... yeah... Dinosaurs, the little- what are they
called?... Fossils... No they’re n- they’re animals I’m trying to
think what they’re actually called. Oh it doesn’t matter....
wossils... Wossils .... Did you move house at all when you were
younger? What memories do you have of this?... Erm I did move house
when I was younger cos I was born in Salford and- but I- I think I
moved when I was about two so I don’t really remember much of it....
mm... But we had some- I remember showing you some videos of when I
was younger as a kid at .... And mum used to have this- it used to
have towers of pots that stacked up on top of each other. And we used
to have a chair in the- like in the corner of the room and Dad used to
push the- this old pot thing and it used to roll round the chair. And
I used to be amazed by it and he must’ve been doing it for about half
an hour, I was like, just watching it go round and round,... aww... I
was amazed. Couldn’t get my hands on it I was just like, ‘no!’ Have
you ever moved house at all?... Er yeah we moved from twenty two to
fourteen, just down the road, erm, cos the new hou- for like- tw- like
from twenty two and onwards they’d already been built, and the house
we moved into was erm had been like a new build. Erm so my mum was
pregnant so we had to move into a bigger house. Erm I loved the old
house I remember- I just remember having like erm a little tea set
with erm little red love hearts on, erm and I remember had- shut up...
I didn’t say anything... We had erm- in the old house we had like,
what’s it called? Cement, and we just moved in at the very start....
And the cats walked through it so we wrote... aww... and in the cement
and we had like a special personalised gate, which had on the top cos
that was my dad’s football team and erm the cat’s name, but I only
just got that back like this year from my dad cos we left it there
when we moved house. It was really good.... aww... nice, erm what th-
what things- no, what local events do you think it’s important people
know about in your town?... you know, the us- usual stuff that goes
on, you know like markets and stuff.... Erm... we have some erm- what
are they called, car boot sales that we used to have in like a little
town hall.... That was good that brought the community together. Er I
don’t really understand the question I don’t think.... We have the May
fair. And you get the May fair queen and my little sister was the
queen one year.... aww... And you have to wear- and there’s like
floats and stuff, that go down.... Oh like down and stuff?... Yeah....
I’m sure my cousin’s **inc**.... What about you?... Erm there’s none
really round here, is there? Th- the- did the-... g- g-... oh, there’s
the s- skiing thing... that’s happening at the chill factor and it’s
quite a erm big place.... Trains .... Oh and yeah obviously we have
Chassen Park round the corner.... And erm I think it’s every Sunday
they have erm the little toy trains that go out.... steam train- Steam
trains... The steam trains and people jump on them and they go round.
And I always think with United being so close, I think it’s good when
events go on there. Because it’s big and it gets a lot of people
**inc** .... I don’t know what you’re talking about... I don’t think
that answers the question but okay.... Do you have to help out around
the house a lot, or not?... Yeah I do. .... You’re made to do it
though aren’t you?... Oh, we’re made to do it you have to do like the
mopping the sweeping, the- helping out with the cooking, which I don’t
mind cos I like that. Then we have to do the pots every night and make
our own beds, Mum doesn’t do our room any more, unlike some.... My mum
loves me! Feral child.... my mum loves me erm, but like we all get
spends for doing different chores.... yeah... so it was good... I used
to get spends but she stopped that when I moved out,... like, ‘no
you’re not having that any more.’... How about you do you do chores
around the house?... No not really, I think I’m quite lucky in that
respect I just sit around doing nothing... and Mum runs round after
everybody... She always complains about it though no-one ever makes
her do it. She always does it herself. It’s every Sunday, like when
you’re finally- you know when you’re coming back from half-term and
you’re going back to school on the Sunday she’s stressing out she’s
like, ‘oh- oh have you got your dinner have you got your dinner, have
you got your money, have you cleaned- have you packed your bag, have
you packed your bag?’... Aww.... And she gets herself in like a little
panic and starts like getting mad at everybody.... It’s like, ‘chill
out for a minute!’... where are your parents from?... That’s a good
question... I don’t know, I think they both went to erm- both from I
think. Yeah Dad used to live down near , down that way.... mm... And I
don’t know where my mum used to live. Actually my mum might’ve used to
live down near the cemetery in . And she went to school with erm dad,
as well... ooh... she was in couple of years below.... ooh... And I
think they know each other actually.... ooh... Really?... Yeah where
are your mum and dad from?... Er I think my dad’s from , I don’t- I’ve
never known him to live anywhere else. Erm and I think my da- mum’s
from , ish maybe.... yeah... good on her, good on her,... all my
family are from round here though actually. Like my nanna’s from I
think. I think that’s about it, that’s how foreign I am... no but-...
Aren’t you like half or something?... I’m not I’m like, heritage wise
like my Grandma- well my Nanna was ,... really?... my granddad was ,
my other grandma was .... My granddad was- well is-.... English....
He’s- well no he’s half Scottish or Irish, think it’s Scottish, which
is the one that wears kilts.... Scotland... he’s Scottish then, no cos
we have our own erm,... does he just- does he just walk around wearing
a kilt all the time... No but we have our own what’s-it-called, what’s
the material the kilt’s made out of? You know that pattern?... Oh
yeah.... Tartan.... Tartan we have our own tartan.... mm... We do!...
**inc** That’s a lie... no, it’s not... Do you have any pets at the
moment or-?... Er yeah I’ve got a dog called , full name .... No we’ve
got and the rabbit, .... That just gets like left out in the cold...
it doesn’t... for no love.... You don’t have any pets do you?... No I
don’t, I don’t have any middle names or anything,... oh... my parents
ju- .... What’s that got to do with anything?... No, no, no- no, cos
like you’ve got- you got- you’ve got pets and stuff and I just get
nothing. And like I remember when I was growing up I always wanted to
have a middle name like.... I don’t know why I just thought it’d be
cool to have a different middle name... what’s that got to do with
pets?... Cos I don’t have- I’m not allowed any pets and I wasn’t
allowed a middle name... Oh my god .... That’s how it goes. You’ve got
some strange middle names haven’t you? Isn’t isn’t she?... Yeah...
really?... It’s .... Cos erm-.... I saw it on her passport the other
day I was like,... ‘hang on a sec ?’... She used to get so bullied for
it. But not now she just hates it, and then mine’s and is . So they’re
not weird.... What’s that after?... .... Oh.... oh... See mine’d be
Rory... Yeah thanks for that I don’t even know what my dad’s name was
actually, so- no-... Wouldn’t your dad’s name have been the same? And
your mum’s name be different?... No my dad’s, dad’s name,... that’s
not what you said... Granddad’s name.... mm... Yeah I don’t know what-
I never met them, you see... Okay... You- you got the chance to meet
them.... What was your school like? Did you enjoy school?... Which
one? Which one?... Primary.... Er it was okay, it was just- it was a
bit of a dump to be honest.... It was like on the corner of a road
and... aww... you get all the little scally mums coming with their
kids with big Mac meals in the morning, in MacDonald’s bags, it was
horrible. But it wasn’t too bad, I was glad to get away. All the kids
were idiots as well, y-... No you hear stories like all of them, like
there’s one that lives behind me and he’s er he’s nearly been kicked
out of his house a few times. He’s been in trouble with police and
stuff. And just random stuff like that. I was lucky to get away from
it... I think, what was yours like?... I- I loved it was amazing. Erm
I think it’s changed quite a lot now. But at the time it was just
really good, it had really nice people there, everyone was really
friendly.... mm... it like- the people there like were of all
different types.... Like some were a lot rougher than others but when-
like I didn’t really notice it at such a young age, like I was friends
with anyone and everyone. And I still would be but I didn’t really
notice it,... mm... but now when you walk past you can see the
difference between... yeah... some of the kids and it is quite
rough.... Yeah I just hated our school cos th- you realise as you get
older, kids just take the mick out of anything.... Yeah... Like
everything it’s unreal. I remember one day, I w- went into school with
a cold sore on my lip.... Urgh.... And I was like- yeah they’re
horrible I know, but. And this guy’s going, ‘why’ve you got spaghetti
Bolognese on you?’... I’m like, ‘it’s- it’s in the morning, why would
I be having spaghetti Bolognese in the morning? And it just doesn’t
dry on my lip like that.’... I used to hate it... aww... But it was
nice when everyone was obviously friendly and stuff but you don’t
realise it when you’re a kid cos you’re so naïve at how stupid people
were... I know... And how easy it is to get dragged into random social
circles and stuff.... mm... Like I think I was lucky going to instead
of .... yeah... yeah.... Cos you see all the different- all the lads
that went there it’s- I know they’re not- most of them are really nice
but they’re just more prone to danger not- or not danger but
trouble.... yeah... How was ?... , what’s the question?... How was
it?... It was good. **inc**... there was quite a lot of bullying but
like you kind of just got on with it, like... like, no matter where
you go there’s always gonna be people who bully. But at the same time
like you meet loads of good people there, and so long as you get in
the right friendship group, then it was good.... mm... I went through
about four, but... I think we were lucky with bullying at .... yeah...
It was always... yeah, it’s-... dead friendly and stuff and... yeah...
Seem nice.... You always thought the ha- they’re rough people when
they didn’t hand their homework in... Not hitting teachers and stuff.
‘oh, you got a detention’ .... what is your best or funniest memory
from when you were young?... Erm I’m sure you’ve asked me this one
before, but-.... No what is your best memory?... I’ll answer it
again.... Not your funniest.... My best memory. Erm I don’t know, not
fr- I can’t remember much of my life, up until like, after year
five... I can’t remember anything before that really. But erm- I- I
know this is gonna make me sound sad but I remember when I was in year
five and I got picked to play for the year six football team, and I
was well happy... ahh... First person to do it through our school,...
ahh... and I was chuffed with that. I just... bless... used to love
football so,... what was yours?... Erm best memory was probably like
when we used to go camping in France, and erm, it was just like the
whole experience. Like when we were driving down,... yeah... me and my
dad u- well we all used to listen to like th- all the old school music
and I used to sit in the front with my dad, to try and keep him- like
to help him stay awake, and there was a time whenI don’t know cos I
was asleep but I’d- I’d fallen asleep... and songs were still playing
but I was still singing with my dad, even though I was asleep....
ahh... And like we used to go canoeing a lot. And then erm it was
like, you were going down in your canoe.... And there was a castle on
one side, and you just think you’re going straight, and the next
minute you realise the castle’s gone on the other side and it just
used to feel like, proper magical. It was so good. But the only thing
was, every time we used to go, we used to fight, with my sisters,...
oh... like proper- get into proper screaming matches, like in this
canoe like... Just throwing each other overboard.... literally we used
to have so many water fights, and not the good kind.... And erm-....
But with bad water... no, but no you know like just like playful
splash, but this was like, strangle splash... trying to drown each
other.... But like it kind of just made it, like when we went a couple
of years ago, like I couldn’t wait to go canoeing again, just to see
if it- if it was the same, it was really good.... Did you ever get
hurt when you were fighting in the water?... No. We did nearly er- not
drown, but get into quite a bit of danger once, cos me and had been
erm dec- we were in a canoe by ourselves,... so we decided to get out,
cos it was hot, and just hold on to the canoe. But somehow we managed
to lose the canoe.... So we were just floating in this river going
downstream.... And like, there was rapids coming up. And then my dad
had to like, swim over and like drag us to the side, and then we had
to catch up with the other canoe, like later on in the stream.... It
was pretty dramatic, but-.... Rescue mission hopefully .... We never
used to do anything like that. I think I remember for year seven
birthday, went erm rock- abseiling with my uncle. We went
tunnelling,... ooh... that was the only thing scary.... I’d never do
that.... Tunnelling?... Isn’t that where you go in like, little
holes?... Yeah it was pretty scary.... No, no I couldn’t do that,
claustrophobic.... Although my brother- when we- when we went, came
along with us and he was- dunno how old he was, he must’ve been about
eight or something, he had his- you know those trainers you used to
get with lights on, and we-... oh yeah... he kept hitting the bottom
of his shoes so they lit up... for that split second. So we’d know we
were okay.... But other than that it was good.... Did you ever get
her- hurt- did you ever get hurt whilst playing when you were a
kid?... Yeah a few times, remember once when my dad’s- some guy my dad
used to work with, his kid came round for the day and we used to have
one of those plastic slides in the back.... And it used to feel so big
when you were up there, but he’s a little kid who’s younger than me,
and he pushed me over the edge... of the top of the slide and I broke
my collar bone.... oh my God... Did you? Didn’t know that.... ooh,...
Yeah, sorry... thanks... really?... Yeah... didn’t know that... Yeah,
and I was in hospital obviously, I was a crip... for a few weeks...
What do you have to do if you break your collar bone, do you get like-
?... It’s just a sling, you don’t- you’re not even in a cast, I think
it’s just a arm sling.... aww... I can’t remember though and I
remember when I was learning to ride the bike, I- I- and I can picture
exactly where it is on the street as well, riding my bike I was going
along and all of a sudden I just went- like fell on my side,... and I
don’t know why and I hit- hit my head on the tree and it killed... And
I remember playing in the back and I tripped over and I hit my side of
me head on the little fence panel thing, the concrete fence panel on
the side of that.... Aww.... And my friend got sent home.... it’s
like, ‘I think you’d best go home now, he’s hurt.’ He was like,
‘okay.’ I blamed it on him, so- .... Did you ever used to have kids
round your house when you were younger? At like primary school, for
tea?... Yes. My house was the house to be-... to be at, it was so good
like, we always used to have like- like one night a week me and used
to go for each- each other’s house for tea. And then erm we always
used to have Halloween parties. Which used to like- I think I’d still
be scared now... like we- we had like the catflap that goes out to the
outside of the house and my dad stuck his hand out like with the glove
on and my dad just like when people were coming round, ‘I’ve lost my
glove, if you notice it, like let me know. And like just bring it in
to the house.’ And then we put erm, nuts or something down the side of
the house, and it was all dark and we were walking down, and my mum
was like, ‘oh these are the cockroaches, don’t worry about them.’...
yeah... And like, now it doesn’t sound scary but like it was and then
erm someone went to go grab the glove.... And my dad grabbed her hand
and literally I think it was , cried.... It was so awful . And then we
had like a hole in the table and my dad’s head was un- like up through
the hole but he had like a something covering it, so when you went to
get your piece of cake or whatever was meant to be under there, and me
Dad’d be like, ‘blar- aargh!’... with a mask on or something, it was
really good.... So erm- we always used to have like birthday parties
and have magicians and stuff over, it was good... I remember my
birthdays as a kid. Think- think the one I remember the most we had
erm- erm what’s it called now? Bouncy castle in the back garden...
right... oh yeah... and it absolutely hammered it down that night....
And the guy was sat in his van for about three hours waiting for it to
die down, he was just like this, ‘ahh’... Everyone had gone home
already and he was just there for about three hours after... aww...
Waiting for the weather to go, it was good. I used to love birth-
kid’s birthday parties. You used to get so many random toys and
stuff... And the party bags afterwards,... yeah... yeah, little bits
of cake... they were amazing. You used to always get like little
whistles and stuff and-.... Yeah and sweets and stuff.... The little
ball things.... I remember we used to go and for dessert we always
used to get erm vanilla and strawberry cake- no not cake erm, ice
cream... and with erm jelly as well, oh it was horrible but it was so
good as a kid, so much sugar at once... did you not have any parties
like that?... No... I remem- remember once when JJB first opened and
you know they had a little play area there?... Yeah... oh yeah.... And
they had the- the one half of a football pitch and someone had- er
someone invited me to their party there, said they were having it at
JJB. So I was saying to Mum, ‘oh, it’ll be a football party.’ So I had
my- had my whole football kit on, my shin pads and everything. I went
there, we were in the bloody play area,... I looked like I’d been
padded up for war rather than for playing tig in the play area.... I
was running round with my shin pads on and stuff... I was safety
proofed.... Was that, was it alphabet zoo?... oh, in Sale... The one
that used to have the big blue slide. That was like nearly- well felt
vertical I don’t know if it was.... Yeah.... Oh it was amazing and
there was erm-.... You had to get in those sacks didn’t you?...
Yeah.... to go in it... It was so good and you used to have those big
like- what are those like cylinders and you had to squeeze through the
two of them?... Oh yeah.... And then they used to have one where you
used to have to go through like four but kids used to get stuck in
there,... so they had to close it down, like that area. Because like
ch-... did they?... yeah kids were getting stuck in there.... I
remember when-... I was always so scared to go through them.... I had
a birthday party there and you used to- you always used to sit on
there. And we’ve got a video at home and I had a stiff neck. Oh my
gosh!... **inc**... no, I couldn’t move, I was at the end of the table
like, ‘urgh!’... trying to blow my candles out like ‘’ not moving my
neck at all... that’s so funny... But when- when they did that they-
they did erm- used to play party games up there as well.... mm...
yeah... And seeing myself dancing as a kid, oh my god it must’ve been
so embarrassing. Like, ‘that’s not my kid there!’... And they used to
get the inflatable slide out for you as well, when we’d all finished
and stuff... yeah... Yeah so when you finished the party and went down
the slide.... bouncing down feeling sick going, ‘argh!’... Food coming
up. I used to- I don’t think I ever went down that blue slide. Think I
was too scared. I think I might’ve b- I think I might’ve been once....
I loved it.... It’s like a vertical drop! break my neck or
something... it was amazing and you went to the ball pool at the
bottom.... Yeah.... and do you remember the massive ball pool and you
could like hide underneath.... Yeah, and then get stood on.... It was
so good. Yeah... Oh that’s a risk you’ve got to take when you’re
playing hide and seek.... I used to love that I absolutely used to
love it.... We should go.... I- I miss being a- it’s closed down...
Aww... Yeah, I miss being a kid when you’re- you see some stuff and
you’re just like- and you see like your toys now and you’re like, ‘how
did I play with them for so long?’... Yeah like Barbies, like, Oh well
maybe not you, but maybe like Ken or something or action man....
well... But like literally you’d play for hours. And what do you do
with just a doll?... yeah... It’s crazy.... I remem- yeah- I- I was
biker mice from mars and power rangers, mine were... I used to have a
little power rangers doll that my cousin got from erm, I think it was
Russia.... And I slept with it for ages... and I remember when I
thought, ‘right I’m going into secondary school now’... ‘I need to get
rid of it.’... And I remember it used to take me about an hour to get
to sleep without it.... aww.... aww... but it was horrible, I know...
bless... it’s not as bad as my brother though, when he was in like
year six, he went to the- the bear factory and got a- a stuffed
cat.... aww... that’s sad, mine was a power ranger. His was a cat...
erm describe your least favourite teacher.... Least favourite teacher,
oh .... yeah... Oh my god he was so annoying he was so patronising....
What did he teach?... Chemistry, it was- oh he used to froth at the
side of the mouth and everything... ooh.... he looks like a rat...
Like he was really nice if you wanted to do well but I remember in A-
level chemistry, he just annoyed me. And he was so patronising. Cos I
couldn’t do it, I got into A-level and I thought, ‘yeah I got an A at-
in science in gcse.’... then you go into chem.- chemistry doing
A-level like going, ‘wait a minute I don’t actually know anything
about science.’... I used to absolutely hate him. What’s yours?... Erm
I’ve always got on with all my teachers, I was a goody two shoes but I
remember in erm not erm there was this really like chubby lady teacher
that er had really dark, curly hair. And erm she was always screaming
at all the kids. And you’d hear her like three rooms down. So you were
always... you were always really scared, like to speak to her. And one
day I had to go and like tell her something, I was like sent from
class to go tell her. And I was like stood behind her waiting for her
to finish talking, but she started walking backwards and she fell on
top of me.... And I was literally like tiny... when I was little and I
was just laid underneath her and this massive woman was like on top of
me. But she couldn’t get up... And people had to help her up and I
just thought like, ‘I could never live this down,’... I wouldn’t ever
speak to her again she was so scary. Can you imagine it though, like
this massive woman like tipping over on top of you?... Just like a
turtle, not being able to get up... it’s like, ‘’. Did you ever used
to do show and tell at school, like... Er yeah we always used to. Erm
I don’t remember what I brought, I used to love it though.... I think
I w- in year six I remember bringing in my hamster... **inc**... but,
no I used to- and it was so strange cos everyone picked like- brought
in these interesting animals, and I brought in a bloody hamster...
aww... aww... The only interesting story was it tried to escape
once... The most boring pet life ever... aww... You were only ever
allowed that, weren’t you? You’ve not had anything else, pet wise?...
I’ve had a couple of goldfish from school fairs and stuff... Nice!...
I used to love our school fairs. They were really good.... were
they?... You used to have your little, erm, your sponge to throw at
your teachers and stuff.... yeah... did you?... Yeah did you not have
that?... no.... Oh you were from , they were probably throwing rocks
at teachers... Yeah but when you were a kid, no-one could hit the
teachers so it was a pretty safe bet of doing it, wasn’t it?...
sure... And sports day as well.... I loved sports day.... and I
remember the sports day that we had in , we used to have osprey,
eagle, hawk and kestrel little team- teams that you were in.... How do
you remember?... It was four birds it’s not hard... Well it could’ve
been pigeon or something... Why do you want pigeon as a team it’s
just... ‘I’ll go pigeon’... No it’s like lots of different types of
birds, it’s kind of good to remember... Yeah it was it was really fun
though.... Did you ever used to have that erm- like the two different
buckets, one was filled with water and one wasn’t and you used to have
like containers with holes in... yeah... and you had to like fill it
up and run really quick, and fill it up cos it was like leaking, and
it was your team that erm- sorry and your team had to get like the
most water in the bucket, like the quickest or something.... We were
never that equipped as a school... Our school was so bad it was
unreal.... Really?... **inc**-... Did you ever get into trouble for
something at school?... Not rea- no... Were you ever blamed- were you
ever blamed for something that wasn’t your fault?... Er I never really
got into trouble in primary school, I used to be like really good. And
th- there’s a picture in the reception, I’m not su- sure if it’s still
there. And someone took a picture of our class when we were in year
one and everyone else was like- like talking and laughing. And one of
them- I remember one of the guys, he was round the camera like doing
tongue out like that at the camera,... and I was there in the-... in
the corner with my lip, my finger against my lip and I was just
like,... I used to sit like that. I must’ve sat like that for about
four years just like, ‘yes’... proper goody two shows... I used to be
scared of getting in trouble I think.... aww... But I remember in year
six when we had erm, after the eleven plus and we got pay back time.
And we got to do like fun stuff outside.... mm... oh yeah... And
didn’t do any lessons. I remember we were- me and three other lads
were talking, we had to go and sit outside and do a bloody reading
assessment. It was so annoying and everyone else was sewing, as g- as
sad as that sounds... did you ever used to- we had to make these- our
own little erm pencil cases.... mm... And do the little sewing
patterns on it, it was really good.... well done... Thanks, I used to
hate getting in trouble though.... I remember when I got my first
detention at . I forged the signature- like the signature so me mum
wouldn’t find out.... I used to hate it.... What was your detention
for?... Erm having a naked pen in foundation studies.... You know the
one that you’d turn it round and the- the bikini costume comes off?...
It was - it was br- brother’s and he’d robbed it and brought it in.
And me, and used to sit in a three.... How old were you?... We were in
year seven, so like twelve... brought it in and me and were just like,
‘aargh!’... staring at this pen.... And the teacher came up and was
like, ‘what’s that?’ And we were like, ‘nothing nothing!’... And we
all had to stay- we had a a half an hour detention at dinner... aww...
Oh that’s awful.... It was... that’s so funny... I felt like a badass
after that though... Going round like nothing could touch me, it was
just, ‘I’ve got a detention, so what?’. Did you get in trouble?... Er
no cos like I said I was always a goody two shoes so when-... Even at
secondary school?... Even at secondary school. Ev- everyone got like-
you know like you used to get class detentions, for everybody
speaking? They always used to like pull me up at the end and say,
‘don’t bother coming back for the detention at the end of the day.’ I
was like, ‘yes!’... Bet everyone hated you... they did... ‘Get
lost’... ‘why isn’t Veronica here?’ and I was like, ‘well, I’m
good’... and then er at primary school, whenever anyone used to get in
trouble and like need an alibi, erm, they always used to come to me
and say, ‘tell them that I didn’t do this,’... ‘tell them I was
somewhere else.’ And I would be like- cos I was always cool with the
boys... and erm, there was this guy called and like you know like at
primary school you weren’t allowed to swear or anything?... And erm he
called a dinner lady something like a rude word... and- or like threw
rocks at her or something like that... And erm he came up to me and he
was like, ‘Veronica I’m going to get expelled you have to like, lie
for me.’ And I was like, ‘oh no but you’re a boy so okay.’... And I
was like, ‘no he was here with me we were reading.’ And then like,
they completely believed me and then the teacher- well the dinner lady
got in trouble.... Got sacked yeah lying... she did for ma- for making
like allegations, but she was a horrible dinner lady anyway. That was
like the worst thing I ever did.... I remember our dinner ladies we
used to- there always used to be like the ty- the stereotypical nasty
one that they were always scared of... and then there was a nice one
as well that didn’t care... aww... just like- oh and we used to have
our wet day books. When it was raining outside and we had to draw
pictures inside it.... Really?... They were like the most boring...
lunchtimes of my life, cos we used to have-... I loved drawing.... We
used to have our- I think it was- we had an hour and I think it got
split into like when you were in year three and up, you could- as soon
as you’d finished you could go out.... And have your dinner but when
you were in like reception to year two you had to wait ‘til half
past... aww... before you could go out. And we used to have to just
draw in these books and it was so boring. It was unreal... There’s
only so many times I can draw stick men... or play noughts and crosses
with myself... With yourself?... yeah... erm, can you remember a good
story that your parents slash grandparents used to tell you?... Not so
much no. I don’t- no, er my granddad died when I was younger... aww...
so- I- like I said I can’t remember anything from when I was younger
anyway, so... And my nanna- she doesn’t know what day it is, so...
ooh... so not really, no.... Aww.... There’s some interesting ones
that you listen to when you’re growing up but- nothing like major....
That sticks, yeah.... Yeah, have you?... Not really interesting or
good, it’s just-.... Do you- do you remember when your granddad made
everyone believe that he got shot in the war?... That was what I was
gonna say... oh right.... why?... well, my n- like when they were in
the war like my grandma and granddad like, they were ov- over in
Germany.... yeah... And er my nanna actually did get shot and erm- a
bomb exploded and the shrapnel like went all in her skin and stuff.
But she was okay, survived, rah, rah, rah, but my granddad had a
massive hole in his neck and he told us all that erm, he’d been shot
in the neck in the war.... Erm told my mum, mum believed it for
fifteen, twenty odd years. However long it was and we believed it up
un- like, up until a couple of years ago. And he it just came out one
day, saying like he didn’t really get shot and had an operation.... I
was like, ‘how can you tell us our entire lives that you’d got shot
and made us think like you’re some hero,’... yeah... and he just
wasn’t.... He just had like some an removed or something for whatever
reason it was.... You was gullible though... No but you should’ve-
you’ve seen the hole. Like- it’s like a good thumb like in to his
neck. It’s weird.... do you not think he would have died?... I- I-
When you think about it now,... but like you wouldn’t really doubt it
if you’d been told-.... Did your dad know that it wasn’t real?... Er I
don’t know, maybe.... My- my parents never used to play tr- tricks on
me. I just used to cry if they did .... You’re such a baby.... Stroppy
kid... I remember when we used to go to Macro and erm they used to
have the erm escalators that were flat.... mm... And obviously-.... Oh
I love those.... I remember- I never used to remember going erm, to
the airports when I was a kid and I u- I just used to run up and down
and up these escalators cos they were flat I was like, ‘yay!’... But
now you see them at asda and they’re just annoying... Especially when
they say, ‘you’re approaching the landing Please take care!’... ‘take
care!’... yeah... Where else have you been on holiday then, is it just
France and stuff, or-.... When we were little we’ve been to- used to
travel France like I said, and er we’ve been to lots of different
places in Greece, erm America a couple of times, erm trying to
think.... I’d love to go to America.... It’s amazing the food’s
amazing, really... Why cos there’s just loads of it?... Yeah... mm,
yeah... pretty much! Like at breakfast you’d have like the proper
American pancakes, scrambled eggs, bit of crispy bacon, syrup, and
like you think , ‘how disgusting does that sound?’ It’s not.... They
must put something in there just to make you think it’s nice... but
it’s really nice and the burgers. Like when me and mum used to go when
we- when I was younger, to visit her brother, erm we just used to have
to share a meal because... yeah... I couldn’t physically eat one and
it was a waste of money and mum would never eat it all so we always
used to have to share, but erm... super large portion.... We used to
go to this place called er the Crab Bucket, or something, and you used
to just get like a massive bucket of unlimited crab claws.... oh
God... And that was amazing.... Oh it sounds it yeah... It was really
nice.... Was it like our KFC?... They have crab claws we’ve got
Kentucky fried chicken... No it was really good, what about you?...
Erm when I was younger I used to go to Majorca a couple of times but
then we gave up on that side of things... And got the caravan... And
then we used to go to Dorset and Cornwall and remember the trips to
Cornwall, were over like thirteen hours, just stuck in traffic
constantly... mm... Really?... That’s when dad decided to invest in
some erm DVD players for the back seats... so we wouldn’t get too
bored.... aww... Then he used to shout at us telling us to ‘turn it
down, it’s distracting him while his driving’... And the classic, ‘if
you don’t shut up I’ll turn round!’... Fifteen hours in.... and then-
and then later on we’ve ventured to France and that’s when I got too
tall for the caravan and got kicked outside into a tent.... Oh no...
On my own. That was the last straw I think I was like, ‘I’m not going
back.’ And then later on we went to- back to Spain I think, for the
last- Oh we went to as well in Lanzarote.... mm... Like a sports
complex.... Could not have a hot summer holiday like that though....
No it wasn’t a summer holiday it was in April though, was in like
April, March for Easter holiday.... Yeah but th- wasn’t that your main
holiday?... No I don’t think so.... I’m sure it was... Probably went
caravanning after it.... Caravans.... No I used to be sca- I used to
hate like flying though.... mm... Cos like- like when you’re going up
and it like drops that bit,... yeah... when it’s going up.... I love
it.... Man it makes me stomach turn upside down. Me mum’s always like
‘oh!’ the on-... the only one on the plane that’s screaming... aww...
I went round my auntie and uncle when they took erm her daughter-
their daughter and her husband and they were filming her when my
auntie, when she was taking off.... Oh my god she looked like she was
having a panic attack, like, white knuckle ride gripping onto the-
onto the side... ‘no’... Just like head straight back into the seat
and it was like, ‘please don’t take off, please don’t take off!’ it
was so funny but it’s just weird it runs in the family stuff like
that. Like I won’t- I won’t go on rollercoasters.... mm... That’s cos
of your mum.... Unless- unless there’s peer pressure on me... l- if-
peer pressure’s the worst thing, like when we went camping, I wouldn’t
have gone into the lake if no-one else did.... Really?... Mm, it was
freezing .... Yeah, I was really tempted to go in but I didn’t get
enough peer pressure.... I get- I- I always get scared of like erm
when I’m swimming in the sea, even when-... crabs?... no when it’s
quite deep, like- I dunno I just like picture getting dragged down by
something... yeah, mm... Like a shark or something.... Yeah. Even
though I know it wouldn’t happen.... I don’t like being out of my
depths in the sea.... But I don’t know why, it’s scary, when I can’t
see the bottom it’s-... yeah... freaks me out.... yeah... Like I used
to be scared when we used to go on the ferries to France, like if it
crashed, and I was always thinking, ‘well you’d die wouldn’t you? You
wouldn’t be able to get out.’... aww... I was scared.... very
negative.... It is.... It’s me mum that... yeah... aww... And like if
you go to like Greece or somewhere, like the- the sea’s proper crystal
clear, and you can see everything. So it’s no too bad, c-... yeah... I
remember when we went to Bulgaria with the lads, the sea there was
horrible. Like it was really hot... mm... but it was just filled with
jellyfish and rubbish and-... eurgh... eurgh... you couldn’t really go
in it.... couldn’t you?... And it was all dirty and it was
horrible.... mm... So not a big fan of seas. Well I am but-.... ni-
only nice ones.... yeah... If it- yeah.... I don’t think I’d ever go
in seas here, like they must be so cold.... mm... Yeah the amount of
just rubbish that’s in it, it’s horrible.... eurgh sewage.... Y- you
see little scraggy kids just weeing in it don’t you... That is their
toilet in Blackpool it’s- it’s-... ‘do you need the toilet?’... No,
but like everyone used to pee in the pool when they were a kid and
stuff and like-.... I didn’t.... Yes you did... First I’ve heard of
it... I don’t mean like ten year old kid,... I mean like smaller....
When you were- when you were younger, I know. Just kidding, just
kidding.... right, erm- go on,... right, go on, what were you gonna
say?... I was gonna ask a question.... I was just gonna say- it
doesn’t matter, I-... I was just gonna carry on the conversation but
ask me a question, it’s okay.... I’ll answer it... Do you want me to
ask- ask you a question? Erm .... There’s- I- I w- I’m just gonna
carry on with my conversation... Like I hate how my mum and dad used
to- well my mum especially used to... ooh... make me scared of like,
loads of random things. Like rollercoasters and-... mm... sh- cos she
was always like, ‘don’t go near the edge you might die!’... And when
you’re a kid you’re like, ‘will I?’... And it kind of sticks with you,
doesn’t it, and like... yeah... yeah... subconsciously you don’t
realise it and then-... oh... Stupid cat... sorry... Are y- are you
not an animal lover then?... Oh I love animals, they just don’t seem
to love me. .... No er it’s completely different like, in my family.
Like- like, my mum was always scared but my dad was always erm
encouraging me. Like to go on rollercoasters and... mm... like proper
like, ‘seek the thrill’... Which I still do now.... like I remember
when we went to ‘Go Ape’ in- first time we went to France. I did the
first one. But I remember getting stuck on like- there’s like a
skateboard... aww... and you have to attach yourself to the top of it.
And you got to make sure your karabiners are the right way round. And
I attached one of them the wrong way.... And I was sliding down and
li- I got like a quarter of the way across on this skateboard... that
was really loose,... I was holding on for dear life. And I realised I
couldn’t go any further cos one of my karabiners was stuck round the
other pieces of wire,... and I was like, ‘no!’ Like felt like I was
gonna die up there So I had to drag myself back and unhook myself. And
I think I was scared form then on.... Yeah. Like I dragged you ‘go
ape’ the other- like... yeah... couple of months ago didn’t I?...
Yeah.... Was it that scary then?... Yeah it was pretty scary... I’m
not gonna lie. I’m not a big fan-... traumatised.... I’m not a big fan
of heights... You’re not a big fan of anything.... Well I am it’s just
like heights, I just dunno- I know nothing’s ever gonna happen but I
just feel like, what if a big gust of wind comes and like just
**inc**... You’re like, attached.... I know I am, but, no like when
you took me it was- it’s one of those things where you don’t want to
do it but then, when you’ve done it you’re like ‘yeah, let’s do it
again, let’s do it again, let’s do it again!’... Yeah, I love those
things.... But when you’re up there you’re like, ‘no no please
don’t!’... it’s a horrible circle.... It’s funny like, watching all
the like the really girly girls go around and like getting stuck....
Yeah.... And you just think- I’m always like, ‘just hurry up!’... I
get really restless.... I- in France we met this erm- Mum and dad met
this couple, and they had two kids of a similar age to me and and erm
we went with them to go ape. And it was the one- the time when I got
stuck on the skateboard. And this guy’s dad had to get erm abseiled
down by the people cos he was scared.... Why?... He couldn’t do it he
was scared of heights.... How embarrassing.... And his little ten year
old kid did it and he was- he was like hugging this tree, waiting for
the people to climb up and-.... Aww. The man or the ten year old?...
The man. R It was kind of like, ‘see dad? I’m not a girl.’... aww...
aww bless.... And he had to wait there for like half an hour while
they got all the equipment sorted up and stuff, and get carried
down.... aww... Aww I couldn’t do that, I’d rather just finish than
have the shame of s- of another full grown man carrying-.... E-
everyone watching you, ‘ha ha!’... Exactly cos you’re keeping everyone
else like up, cos you can’t like cross people’s paths when you’re up
there.... yeah... Hmm, I know.... I’d be so annoyed. I’d be like,
‘hurry up!’... Cos you’re impatient though, that’s the thing isn’t
it?... You g- just go to think like- I don’t think- you just gotta-
it’s weird, the connotation of when you are- as a kid. How much it
stays like that. And that’s about it really, isn’t it?... Yeah....
Right
