one, two, three, four, five EOS why is your sister well mad? you’re so
awkward, and- so d- that’s weird, why did she drive past his house
then? have a quick look EOS I can’t believe she w- that’s what she
wears to the gym EOS which fancy dress stuff? sorry, I thought she
would’ve woken me up if we were gonna go to the gym EOS she woke me up
and asked me for her- your Mum’s number EOS I don’t even know, and I
was like, ‘no, I don’t have it’, and then EOS I know, but then I
realised I did, I was like, ‘there you go’, and then I went back to
sleep EOS plus, I couldn’t’ve even gone to the gym, I had my boots
with me and I had nothing EOS well, if she wanted to go that badly, I
would’ve gone with her, but EOS eurgh, that lamb wasn’t as good this
morning smelling, I microwaved EOS it’s that lamb that we had last
time so we have to cook EOS lamb steak thing EOS yeah, the one EOS one
where the onions were too chunky EOS and, what- I dunno what else you
complained about, but, yeah, all EOS no, you complained about
something else as well EOS we had ratatouille EOS potatoes and lamb
sweet potato thingy, thingy EOS and the rice pudding EOS d- do you
think **anon** really made at me? it sounded like she was, you know
EOS when I- when I said about her being married and she was like,
‘yeah’, cos seeing someone EOS three times a week is like being
married, but I was like, ‘oh, shh’ EOS what, and keep him company? cos
he’ll be dying without her EOS she’s always down there EOS don’t know
what to say EOS okay what’s your least fav- why is **anon** coming
round, **anon** coming round because he’s cutting his cousin’s hair,
the one that’s like got something wrong with her EOS and like, she
can’t do- yeah, she’s got this like, I don’t know if it’s a disease,
as such EOS but it’s one of those things where you cons- like, she’s
constantly tired, like, she’ll get up for like an hour, and then
she’ll need to go back to bed and she can’t do her last year of Uni or
EOS because of it EOS well, she doesn’t, she was meant to come and get
her hair cut yesterday, and then she had to rearrange for three
o’clock today, I think she’s been sleeping since yesterday, ‘til today
so she can EOS yeah, eventually it’s just meant to like, wear off or
something, but, she’s dead weird anyway she’s like a d- no, she’s like
a dead bohemian weirdo EOS like a hippy EOS she used to have big hair,
like, that she just didn’t wash and just EOS and it was like blonde,
and it was like, out like this EOS well that’s what- and then, oh
yeah, so erm, he’s left all his kit bag here from when he did my Mum’s
hair on Saturday EOS cause he decided to go out, so EOS no, she likes
it now, she came back from the hairdressers, and she was like,
‘there’s too much blonde in it’ EOS I can, erm EOS she was like,
‘there’s too much blonde in it’, but I said to her, ‘ooh, I don’t know
if I like it there’s quite a lot of blonde in it’ then she hated it,
then she was like, ‘there’s too much blonde in it’ she was like, ‘will
you get **anon** to put some’- yeah, no, but she had like twice the
amount of that blonde, all like here, just there, none at the back EOS
**anon** just put a semi permanent dye on some of the blonde bits, to
dye them the brown colour EOS yeah, it looks nice now, so EOS if she
grew her hair out it would be grey EOS her hair all grows through grey
EOS yeah it does EOS her natural colour’s like as dark as mine though,
there’s a picture, erm, of her and all her sisters- no, but my natural
hair colour- but erm, there’s a picture of her and all her sisters,
like, together, and my Aun- my Grandma had this thing, that if you
were a child and you had short hair, you’d have lovely hair when you,
erm, old, she’s- when you’re older, like, and she’s Irish and she’s a
weirdo, so that’s what she thought she was like, ‘ooh, you’ll have
beautiful hair’ EOS when it grows, so erm, they all had a mushroom
haircut, apart from my **anon**, cos she had curly hair- like, when
it’s like that EOS so did I when I was like five though EOS so there’s
these pictures of- there’s these pictures when erm, my Mum and like
all her sisters are kids, in black and white pictures, all in dresses,
one with curly hair, the rest all with mushroom hair cuts, my cousin
**anon** walks past going, ‘why’s **anon** in a black and white
picture in a dress?’ EOS yeah, it’s the same colour as mine though,
actually, it does, that’s why she has to have blonde in her hair EOS
how old’s your Mum? my Mum’s forty seven EOS why have you drawn a tee-
shirt with ‘wet’ written on in it EOS oh, it’s a bit windy EOS
describe your least favourite teacher EOS your least favourite one EOS
yeah, if you want from college from college EOS he came into my work
the other day EOS walked in, I was setting- I was setting all the
tables up, and I went into the harness room and looked, and **anon**
one of the chefs is like, sat down like, writing stuff, and then I’m
looking and it’s **anon** bloody **anon**, I’m like, ‘oh my God, what
is he doing here’ EOS but then I realised, **anon** doing an- he’s one
of the chefs, but he’s doing an apprenticeship with **anon** and he
had **anon**- erm, no, he had **anon** EOS and he had, erm, whats-his-
name grey hair **anon** he had **anon** and **anon** EOS erm, for like
his lessons, but then **anon** comes every month and asks him like,
what’s he’s done and he has to do all this different cooking stuff and
he’s like, ‘have you done that?’, and **anon** like, ‘no’, and he’s
like, ‘oh, I’ll just sign it off EOS so then he- he comes up to me and
he’s like, ‘so how- is this where you’ve been hanging out?’ EOS ,
‘have you handed all your work in?’, and I was like, ‘yes’, erm, and I
was like what was he going on about? he was talking about some
rubbish- what, he’s working with you again? so why do you hate
**anon**? well, he didn’t though did he EOS he’s just a knobhead EOS
I’ll always remember- whenever I think about **anon** I’ll always
think of that time when he was writing on the board EOS was writing on
the board and th- the higher and higher he EOS tops coming out and you
can just see more and more of his arse, everyone’s like, ‘urgh’ EOS
and it’s like, ‘**anon**, why are you looking?’ EOS do you think?
Yeah, probably EOS I didn’t really- well yeah, **anon** probably from
college EOS **anon** was weird sometimes though, don’t you think?
like, she’d go in a mood over like stupid things EOS yeah, but she EOS
yeah, but she did often go in moods and stuff EOS if you said stuff
or- yeah she always seemed to take things too personal, as well
sometimes **anon** but my wor- my actual worst teacher I think about
when it- it’s gotta be **anon** from school when- she’s from **anon**
and she’s got like the strongest accent ever, erm, she had a baby, and
she was like- we were like, ‘what’ve you called your baby?’ and she’s
like, ‘**anon**’ , ‘oh, great’, and then erm, she got married and then
we weren’t sure if her name, because she couldn’t say ‘haitches', we
weren’t sure if her name was **anon** or **anon** for like a year EOS
cause she was that common EOS sounding she used to call **anon** all
time- she used to speak to **anon**, and erm, she’d call him **anon**
and sh- he’d be like, ‘’ all the time and she’d- I think she used to
do it on purpose, say words with ‘haitches’ EOS and she used to go,
‘do you want a chuffty badge?’ when- if you thought, like, if you got
something right or you were proud of yourself or something EOS and she
used to actually make them like, if you were doing something like,
creative, like ‘do a title page for your book’ she’d get like stickers
out and make a chuffty badge, like EOS ‘here’s your chuffty badge’ EOS
mm do you reckon who I’ll always remember from college EOS are you
surprised? she loved me EOS ‘I’m going to the Trafford Centre to meet
my someone special’, like, that arse and then, who was it- **anon**
that they always used to wind- wind him up about like, ‘is **anon**
your someone special?’, like, ‘no, my someone special’s called
**anon**’ like, oh God EOS the one that you were partners with in
**anon** and didn’t know his EOS for ages, and then bumped into him in
**anon** and like, ‘who’s that- who’s that’ I was like, ‘**anon**’
you’re like, ‘ooh aye’ EOS and the one that- the one that works at
**anon** EOS well, he did, anyway, but so did that **anon**, you know
the pregnant EOS I’ll always remember her though when she was at
**anon** when she was made partners with **anon**, cos **anon** had a
bad back, and she was pregnant, so the two of them couldn’t do
anything really EOS yeah, put them two together EOS yeah she was sick
wasn’t she, and she hurt her back or EOS well, you would be EOS yeah
she worked for like an hour and then stayed in the EOS oh yeah, cos
you didn’t eat all day EOS no, it was disgusting that place EOS eurgh,
the lunches were horrible there, whenever I think about- the buffet
was alright but, it was just the bloody- oh yeah, you didn’t get it
did you EOS it was the erm, thingy though, the erm four cheese and
mayonnaise sandwiches, I was like, eurgh, not eating that EOS the
cakes were good there but then there was that bitchy chef that always
used to come over and be like, ‘you can’t save all the cakes’, like,
‘well, we don’t wanna save all of them, but we’re not gonna chuck them
all away, people are hungry’ EOS chefs can just be mean at times,
can’t they? I’m not a chef EOS oh, I’ll have to be a chef on Wednesday
though EOS it’s so annoying, they’ll- and they’ll probably ask me
like, ‘is there this and this’, I’ll be like, ‘I don’t know’, some
woman came up to me yesterday and w- well, not yesterday the other day
when I was really, really busy, the only one behind the hot plate, and
she was like this, ‘can I just ask you a few questions about the
ingredients?’, I was like, ‘in a minute’ EOS what when she g- the one
that couldn’t have tomatoes, yeast or EOS just peppers, which is weird
EOS red and green EOS yeah, ‘any red or green peppers in it?’ ‘no’,
‘what about the other colours?’ I was like, ‘why don’t you ask me if
there’s any peppers in it?’ EOS oh, it’s getting warm in here again
EOS erm, what do you remember from your first day of school? your very
first day EOS I remember my blazer was like three times- sizes too big
for me EOS I had a black blazer EOS in year seven? I don’t- oh, I
remember hiding behind my Mum’s coat in primary school EOS she had a
big long coat, and I didn’t wanna say hi to anyone, so I lifted the
coat up and stood under it EOS I remember on the second day, erm, of
school we had PE EOS mm, mm, mm, mm EOS just to pick the stuff up EOS
we’ve gotta- he’s cutting her hair at three o’clock and he’ll have to
be quick or she’ll fall asleep EOS that’d be a bit dangerous someone
trying to cut their hair EOS imagine if she started sleep walking like
that guy EOS I wanna see it EOS why’s **anon** getting involved
though? the other week, well, no, this week, erm, some woman came into
work and erm, she was speaking to **anon** and was like, ‘right, so,
what we want is, we want the erm, late lunch’ and she was like, ‘I
don’t know if the late lunch is on today actually’ and then she was
like, ‘well, it’s outside’ and so then she was like- the late- it’s
just a menu that we do when the regular lunches come off, we do a late
lunch, so, they do t- like, cos they normally don’t do stuff to order,
they do shepherds pie EOS scampi, and erm, sticky mango chicken- no,
cos they cook it f- like, to order EOS and you get it brought over to
you and everything, so, but the main lunch was still out, so she goes
and asks if they’re doing it, and then erm, she was like he said
something like, erm, ‘we won’t be doing it until like, half three’ or
something, then she was like, ‘right, can we order it now, and come
back’ or something and then she was like, ‘right, we want two child’s
portions of the EOS she goes, ‘well, we can’t do child’s portions of
the shepherds pie’ she’s like, ‘why?’, ‘they’re already portioned up
in an adults portion, and they’re that price, and it doesn’t say
anywhere that we can do a child’s portion’ and she’s like, ‘well, we
want child’s portions, this is absolutely ridiculous’ so she’s
basically on one, she’s having a go at erm, **anon** then like,
wouldn’t stop, I don’t know what even she was saying to her, I kind of
looked over at her, and then in the end she was like, ‘it’s not very
good, you’re loosing five customers here that nanana’ EOS and going on
with herself, in the end she walks out, I turned to **anon** and said,
‘are you alright?’ like this, and then she smiles and kind of goes,
‘yeah’ and kind of like laughed it off, but kind of just to say,
‘yeah, it’s fine’, the woman comes back like, thirty seconds later, ‘I
don’t think it’s right that you’re laughing at us as soon as we
leave’, I was like, ‘excuse me, we weren’t laughing at her, I asked
her if she was alright’, and she was like, ‘no, I don’t think it’s
very funny, you’re laughing at us and we’re walking away, you’re- this
EOS what was that? mm EOS yeah, think so EOS I’m just gonna carry on
anyway EOS she just said that really EOS yeah, then she walked away,
and no-one even realised EOS no, we weren’t laughing, I asked her if
she was alright, because EOS it was quite personal the way that she
was saying to her, like, ‘w- why- what are you’ she kept saying to
her, ‘what are you gonna do EOS and she was like, ‘there’s nothing I
can do about it’ and in the end she- I thought that she’d just leave
it, the woman, and erm, erm, **anon** thought that **anon** or
**anon** would step in and say something to her, but they didn’t even
know what was going on, we had to say it to **anon** later on, oh, it
was ridiculous it’s EOS what are local people like in **anon**? what’s
wrong with it? wouldn’t have moved from here? at least they’re not
like in bred in **anon** EOS at least they’re not in bred in **anon**
EOS cos they’re all in bred in **anon** apparently EOS it’d be
slightly funny if you could do it EOS everyone’s posh to you that
isn’t like, you basically EOS you can read, you just can’t read well
EOS and you get confused EOS I said that you can’t read well EOS what
do you and your family do in your free time when you were EOS that’s
not- just sit in each others rooms and just not talk? no, cos you used
to do stuff with **anon** EOS well, what did you used to do with
**anon**? used to take him to the park EOS what did you- I thought,
no, I didn’t think you played on the playstation, I thought it was
that woman that used to come and visit EOS your Mum did a lot EOS oh,
guess so EOS did he ever put it all the way up? what did your Mum say?
what, with you? Why, did you do it to her? can we pause it at all?
two, three, four, five EOS yeah, great, that’s fantastic EOS the lying
down game No left channel EOS no, I never played it as th- the lying
down game, plankey EOS I don’t know what EOS I know my cousins used to
always play, erm, we had two but they were basically the same game but
they had different names, one of them we called, erm, was ‘pizza
planet’, and one of them was ‘cool kids’, and they were basically our
own, erm, takeaway, fast food place EOS I don’t actually know, but
it’s a bit weird, cos we used to like pretend that we had, the- erm,
like, frying the chips, and you used to, erm, have buttons to do the
drinks and stuff EOS and, erm, used to have wh- I don’t know what
those things are called, but you know those boards where you like
write on them, and then you can just wipe it off- no, it’s not like a
white board, erm- no, it’s like the grey stuff- yeah, one of them, I
think EOS erm, yes I think it was an electrasketch EOS erm, so and we
used to like write ‘cool kids’ on it and do like smiley faces and
stuff, and stick it on the door, and we’re like, ‘this is our
restaurant’ EOS I used to go to my cousins every Saturday EOS don’t
know why, but we used to do it all the time Left channel resumes EOS
and then we’d go to Drama on Sunday as well EOS erm what games did you
used to play as a kid? ‘you can decide what you’re eating’ EOS ‘it’s
up to you’ hmm EOS yeah, it’s really hard to think about what you used
to play as a kid EOS could never do that, I always used to tie my
laces EOS was that at **anon**? on the playstation? what, so you’d
wear your rollerblades and hold onto his- you’re such a geek EOS don’t
blame you EOS you didn’t wanna play with her in the gym EOS that is my
favourite thing, like, that’s happened in like, years EOS when you
were like ‘I’ve been to the gym, I need to eat’ EOS I’m like, ‘why’,
‘I need to put back on the weight that I’ve burnt off’ EOS that’s not
the purpose of the gym, for EOS well, obviously you’re meant to be at
the gym then aren’t you? swimming’s not that entertaining EOS how is
it? Just looking at water EOS it’s entertaining when **anon** swimming
EOS have you not- have I not told you about how **anon** swims? right,
anyway when **anon**- when **anon**- I was- I- we were talking about
this subject first, you changed the EOS right so **anon**- when
**anon** EOS when **anon** swimming EOS but- yeah, the chips in
**anon** make me always feel sick EOS cause of the smell from the- all
the chlorine EOS did you ever put armbands on someone’s feet? **anon**
nearly died, the lifeguard goes, he was like, ‘take them off, you put
armbands on your feet, and you go like that, and as soon as you let go
they go, pff, like that and you go upside down EOS and they’re like
stuck on your ankles EOS so you can’t get them off either EOS yeah,
no, they weren’t like EOS bought them cos they were pink, they were
like the pink ones that they sold there cos they had like yellow ones-
but anyway, as I was saying, when **anon** swimming EOS like when we
were on holiday, he’ll like go in and he looks like- like he’s like,
his neck’s like this, like the water’s there EOS and- and- so he’s
like this, and then every now and again he’ll go under and he’ll be
like spitting water out, like, oh my God, and he constantly looks like
he’s just going to die EOS like he’s stand there, and he’s like- and
he always grabs onto people like, ‘’ and then EOS so as you as you
get, like, when we’re on holiday, he’ll like be drowning me and I’ll
do like, that to him and- he can swim, just about, like, with that EOS
like, dying, I’m like, ‘oh my God, you’re the worst swimmer ever’ EOS
I’m better than him anyway EOS yeah, we only did it in year seven-
year five and year six, oh not in high school, no, we never did it in
high school EOS no, we only did it in Primary EOS yeah, I know, your
arm- your arms don’t really help with backstroke though, I don’t think
EOS you just always wet your face and stuff EOS no, you don’t do, yeah
EOS never even done that in my life EOS could you dive? do you know
what was the- were you ever jealous when you all used to come in- in
the pyjamas to do like the one with the EOS that was hilarious, I was
well jealous in year five, when all the year sixes were like- I’ve
never pl I was gonna, ah- I was gonna ask the most stupid EOS it
wasn’t about the horses in water polo anyway EOS g- I couldn’t
remember what it was for a second I was like, ‘oh yeah, polo’s the one
with the horses isn’t it, how do horses play water polo’ yeah, that
was a bit of a stupid one