 No left channel between 00.11 - 02.37 EOS No right channel between
03.00 - 03.53 and 04.08 - 04.35 EOS Problem with recording at 01.50.
Lack of continuity in conversation caused by omission due to recording
problem EOS Can you just count to three? Is that OK? One two three.
Well Vivienne **anon**, we know where we went to school. No left
channel EOS We went to the same school. We went to **anon** school. it
was. Now did you ever get into trouble at school? Can you EOS I did
get into trouble once, it was something to do with a bird. And someb-
I think the boy that got me into trouble, somebody called **anon** who
lived on **anon**. But I can’t remember exactly how it all came about.
But I know **anon** wasn’t very happy. Ah. Well I remember getting
into trouble at that school and I got the EOS Oh I got the cane for
it. I was late, I’ve never been late in my life, and I still hate
being late for anything. And I dawdled on the way to school and
suddenly I realised that the doors were locked and I couldn’t get in.
And I had to stand waiting while they did the prayers. How old were
you then? Erm I was in the junior school, so possibly about eleven.
Ten or eleven. And I got the- this cane on my l- on my hand EOS who
gave you that? **anon**? **anon** and it was- He was a bit handy with
his cane, wasn’t he? And do you know it really hurt, it- and I was so
mortified that I had to stand there in the hall and be caned. Section
omitted due to recording problem EOS Difficult years to be a child in.
Erm wondering from one day to the next whether the Germans would
arrive on the doorstep. Cos we had shelters didn’t we? We did at
school, which we had to go into. And practice for air-raids. yes, air
raids, mm EOS I got thumped in one of those, I remember, very, very
hard in the EOS Somebody thumped me, we never knew who it was. But
er-. Well you wouldn’t in the dark, no EOS But I quite enjoyed
**anon**. I did actually. It was a church school. It was always a very
good school. But as far as favourite teacher Left channel resumes EOS
Was there one called **anon**? I think she was a favourite. Yes
possibly, she came from Irlam. Mm, she did. **anon** with the strap in
the corner. She used to frighten me to death. But she was a very, very
good teacher. Was her name **anon**? She used to play the piano. I
don’t remember that name. And if we didn’t sing- she taught us
‘Jerusalem’ and if we didn’t sing it correctly, oh my word! She was
very strict. No right channel EOS right, right, I remember **anon**.
Now she was extremely strict. Very strict lady. She was a large lady
and she was very, very strict, everyone was frightened of her. Well I
think-. As far as your first day at school, that school- I actually,
had been up in the lake district cos I’d been evacuated erm to my
aunt’s. And I do not remember really my first day at school but I do
remember at the infants. And I do remember you and **anon** with your
lovely dark black EOS that was cut you know, with your fringes. I
remember looking and thinking, ‘ooh what lovely hair!’ EOS I remember
my first day. Cos I was five when I went. Right channel resumes) EOS
And I think the teacher was called **anon** EOS And I can picture the
classroom. And our **anon** younger than me, she cried because she
wanted to come as well. So she started as well, shortly afterwards. No
right channel EOS Oh, oh right. Erm- but then our **anon** had
appendicitis M did she EOS and she was rushed to hospital. And she
missed quite a bit of schooling because of it. ooh, cos it was a big
operation. It was in those days, yes. Cos they were frightened it
might be EOS Because **anon**, my dad’s sister, she had died at
fourteen EOS with peritonitis. Erm and we always felt that she never
quite caught up, because she missed-. The grounding, you know, the
basics. She’s alright now but that’s the way we felt. Right channel
resumes EOS mm, mm, summer holidays for me were again, back in the
Lake District. Erm I used to go on . We used to go on coach trips,
Stratford upon Avon. Erm I didn’t go to Scarborough. Erm, round Wales.
Me dad used to take us to New Brighton on the bus. But that’s as far
as it went in those days, cos people didn’t go on holiday, did they
really? mm, no they didn’t no. Well you couldn’t because there was no
seaside to go to, because it was mined, all the beaches. I do remember
going to Blackpool once. Yes I remember Blackpool. And it was all
barbed wire and you weren’t allowed on the beach to play. Erm I
presume it was all mined and you know, waiting for an EOS So beaches
were just you know-. A no go area. No go areas yes. Yes. But having
said that, I mean- our school days- we never went short. We were never
short of food or anything like that. No, it wasn’t very good at times.
We made the most of what we had, erm EOS Yes and I still hate celery.
I’ve never really taken to celery. raw celery, I hate, but I love it
in stews. I do actually like it. Yes, in stews. I eat it because
**anon** puts it in EOS but I can’t say that it’s one of me favourite
things. Yes, no. But I think- I think it was very difficult for our
parents to feed- I mean, there were th- three of us, ‘til **anon** was
born. had my sister, in nineteen forty four, so- it was hard to-
everything was so rationed. It was dreadful, you queued for
everything. And sweets, when you think nowadays the shops are
absolutely full of EOS I suppose we were lucky that erm my aunties
were still at home and they gave us their sweet coupons. Sweet
coupons, yes. And we used to go to **anon**. Oh yes, yes. And er the
main thing we had were Barley sugars. Oh gosh, really? And
occasionally a treat, with a crunchie. But it was- that was all you
could get in those days. And then there was the powdered egg, Oh gosh
that American powdered egg. Canned coffee, ooh. We w- we were very
lucky, we had erm- my grandfather wrote to a lady in America who had
been the fiancée of an uncle. Who died in the first world war. And she
went out and married someone else. And went out to America and she
sent us food parcels, all the way through the war. Oh that was nice,
yeah. She was very religious and the church that she went to, they
collected for the English people. And they used to send us some
wonderful things over. Erm and it must’ve been quite expensive to get
it over in those days, over in tho- yes EOS they wouldn’t be flown
over. It would’ve come by boat. It’d take weeks! The only thing I
hated was the wintergreen sweets that they sent. Oh I don’t remember
those. I never had those. Oh they were dreadful, they were American,
wintergreen, and the chocolate was bad as well. And I- I never liked
those. Well even now I don’t think their chocolate is as nice as ours.
I don’t, no. Because **anon** and **anon** love Thorntons, **anon** in
particular you know, the erm special toffee. And when me mum used to
visit erm **anon** in Chicago. Take some decent cadburies chocolates.
yes, yes, yes. yes not as nice as hours. But they used to send- also,
they collected clothes. Clothes that were practically new. And I
absolutely hated them. Because my mother cut them down, to fit me and
they were American style sleeves. yes and you felt different. And I
was different at school in them. And I absolutely hated them. I don’t
remember that Maureen **anon**. I don’t remember. And they were
beautiful things, I’m sure. Yes, yes, mm EOS But they weren’t what I
wanted. But there were no clothes. I know, well-. Very difficult to
get. Cos I know when people got married- I th- **anon** got married at
the end of the war, and it wasn’t a white outfit, it was sort of a two
EOS with a great big hat. She always wore a hat didn’t she? mm, Well
I- I remember my mother making my eldest sister- half sister, erm,
wedding cake. That would be probably nineteen- **anon** was born in
forty four, so this would be forty five, I think. And my mum- my
mother had got all the cake mixture, black market cake mixture of
course. Erm and she made this wedding cake and she took it out of the
oven and it fell into three pieces. oh your poor mum! And she was
absolutely horrified because she’d been a cook, that was her- what she
did as a young woman, and I think she got the almond paste and stuck
it together. Where the cracks were. And iced over it and nobody knew
any EOS So that- but that stuck in my mind and yes, that’s amazing.
Erm but I used to- I did a lot of the queuing fo- for food. But we had
to do, didn’t we? Yes because my mother had obviously had my sister in
nineteen forty EOS and I used to go and do all the-. I did the er-
most of the errands. Did you do it as well Vivienne **anon**? and we
used to go to **anon** on the other side of the trinity. Erm-. And
everything you know was sort of weighed and very precise. Oh
absolutely. When you watch these- I love the history programmes EOS
and I do watch them and you know, what went on in the war years. And
they’re absolutely perfect because you know, they are true footage. Of
what it was like and it makes you think, ‘how did we ever EOS Well we
did, didn’t we? We never went short. Never went short. No, we had
probably just about enough but er-. Yes and yet it’s not done us any
harm, has it? When you think EOS Well we’re still here at seventy four
and touch our toes, Vivienne EOS I don’t know that I can touch my
toes. mm, I can. Yes. Oh gosh yes. Mind you I’ve never tried but I’m
sure I can’t. I’m sure I can’t. Oh dear. yeah, yeah, well we’ve got
our own teeth. Oh I haven’t. Well I have half, the bottom. But I had
mine out at twenty six. Oh did you? Because I had terrible teeth. Oh
right, right. Look at her laughing! We’ve got our own hair colour! Oh
yeah and- well-. With a bit of help EOS The hairdresser’s very helpful
EOS Absolutely. Erm, yes. Erm you know and what else? Well I’ve got
contact lenses. I fool everyone cos I’ve got contact lenses. Ooh no I
just- I couldn’t put those in, I couldn’t mess with my eyes. Oh gosh
yes, yeah EOS I’ve had them about- oh I don’t know, twenty five years,
probably EOS mm, since I- I’m more-. I need my glasses for reading but
I just couldn’t- if I had to wear them all the time, I’d have to wear
them. Just couldn’t put contact lenses in. **anon** does. But I
couldn’t. Erm, well my grandson who’s eleven, well twelve tomorrow. He
use- he has contact lenses, **anon**. And what a difference it’s made
to his life, and I taught him how to EOS Oh I’m sure. Really, yes.
Yes, and erm I did explain it and I keep saying, you know, ‘you must
wash your hands, all the time!’ EOS Ooh hands going near your eyes.
You don’t want to get infected eyes. And I spent a long time- . mm,
Explaining it to him. Explaining how to do it, and do you know, he- he
was brilliant. And he’s so thrilled because he doesn’t have to wear
glasses any EOS Yes, made a big difference to him at school. Because
children generally don’t like wearing glasses. They’re quite cruel
aren’t they? Some of them. Oh they are yes. Yes that’s right. I mean
on the whole I think my school days were happy days. Yes I’m sure mine
were really, yes. But then after **anon** we parted company didn’t we?
We did Vivienne **anon** you went to the grammar school. I went to
**anon** school. And I went to a technical col- commercial college.
mm, yes. And I suppose I did sports at the grammar school. And w- and-
yes. Erm hockey, rounders, athletics. School choir. But I m- that’s a
bit like that now. All gone by the EOS I think they just had netball
at **anon** when I went there. Did they? Well they had netball but I-
I think being on the short side, I wasn’t very good at netball. I was
better at hockey. You are better when you’re tall, yes. And yet funny,
my best friend, who was taller than me, you know, Yes oh yes. She was
good at the high jump. I did the long jump. She did netball, I did
hockey. We just did opposite things. mm, mm, yes. And I think that’s
partly to do with her being so much taller than EOS Taller, yes, yes.
Now then. Funniest memories from when we were young. And as far as
brothers and sisters of course, I had- my father sadly lost his first
wife with consumption as they called it in those days. Er in nineteen
twenty nine or stroke thirty. Erm my sister was three. And my brother
was a baby, about six months old. And my father was working, because
of all the problems with like today, jobs that are difficult. And of
course the twenties and thir- well the twenties was very difficult.
And he went to live in Yorkshire. And-. yeah- whereabouts in
Yorkshire? Well I can’t just remember now, though I’m trying very hard
to. There was a very large erm- water supply, a big erm-. Yes and it
f- I think it fed Leeds I think, up there, but it’s beautiful up
there. And they had-. Is it the reservoir that you see when you’re on
the M-sixty two? No, no it isn’t. Erm and I have photographs of my
father up a telegraph pole, cos he EOS Oh was he? Wiring it all up.
And they had houses as well, and that- my sister took me about four or
five years ago and the foundations of the houses which were stone were
still there. Just the foundations, you could see where they were. Erm
and the water authority, it hadn’t been open actually to the public
and they’d o- they’d o- they’d only just opened this particular spot.
Erm and so it was quite you know, interesting to go. And obviously my
father’s been dead twenty years now. Erm but-. Do you know I thought
it would’ve been more than that, Maureen EOS Erm, well my mother-
father twen- mother twenty and my father twenty two I think. And then
what happened, she got this consumption living there. Sadly and had to
go to er a sanatorium. And he took his two children back to Windermere
where he came from. And his mother looked after them. Looked after
them, brought them up. And that’s how he met my mother EOS there. Erm,
so it was quite- really quite sad. Sad yes yeah. Yeah for him erm-.
Well I can still picture your mother and father, you know- big EOS Mm,
yeah they were. Yes. Tall, and I know when I used to go shopping in
Peel Green to the butchers and your mum would be walking along, and
I’d say, ‘how’s Maureen **anon**? Another little girl!’ EOS another
little girl, Yes. Another little girl, one two three four. Oh yes. But
then you see, what happened with- with grandchildren. Six EOS And
three granddaughters. And five boys, one after the other. We didn’t
have any girls at all. Yes that’s right. Funny that. Mm. But erm-.
Just I do remember when we used to go to church and you were in the
choir, like **anon** was in the choir. And used to go to **anon**,
Christmas Eve, carol singing. mm, really mm. And your Mum, I remember
one year in particular your mum gave us all erm hot chocolate before
we went. Did she really Vivienne **anon**? yes one Christmas eve. Ooh
you can remember things better than me. Yeah, she gave us erm hot
chocolate before we all set off for church. Happy days those, really.
Oh, yes, that’s- it is, probably were, yes. But you and **anon**-. But
you never got much for Christmas, I certainly didn’t. There were just
no toys at all. Well you couldn’t- I think. in the forties EOS The one
thing I remember getting at Christmas was a very nice- and it was off
a friend of my mum and dad’s. A pencil box with a- that’s erm roller
top. Oh I know. Yeah. But, you know, you come down Christmas day, and
your presents would be on the table. There’d be mine, **anon** and
**anon**. Because that was it, wasn’t it, and a bit of fruit?
Whatever- you know. That’s right and a few nuts. You alw- I had a
pillowcase, always had a pillowcase and there was nuts in the bottom,
a tangerine and an EOS mm, oh a tangerine. Yes. And erm they were- I
don’t know that it was quite exciting to have those at the very
bottom. But I used to be so upset when there was nothing left in it at
all. And wishing there were more things, but there were no books
Vivienne EOS and I never had a doll for- I never played with dolls. I-
I wasn’t a doll person, I did have one and I didn’t like it. mm, well
my mother-. I did have a nice doll’s pram. And bicycle that me
granddad bought. But it wasn’t at Christmas, it was sort of later on.
When you could afford it. exactly. Yes, yes. You know cos they worked-
worked hard. Well I do remember a book that I was bought. Two books-
one was ‘The prisoner of Zenda’ and ‘Rupert of Hensor.’ EOS Oh I don’t
remember that but I remember the first one. And they were hideous
books, they were far too old for me. I was just thinking that. And I
c- I don’t really think I ever read them really. but there were no
children’s books. But **anon** from the post office, her parents could
always find Rupert books. Mm, she always had the annuals for Rupert.
And I was lucky, because she used to lend them to me. You know, and so
I could read them. But I never had any books. And my mother, desperate
to get me a doll she went to the doll’s hospital in EOS Oh I remember
the doll’s hospital. And you remember that Vivienne **anon**. Bought
two heads and sewed them on this- these bodies she’d made. And I had-
I always had a black doll. I absolutely loved black dolls, more than
white dolls. Cos I just had this attraction f- for black dolls. And
she got me a black and a white one. And I went to see **anon** my
friend at the time. She’s a mutual friend, **anon**. We went to school
with her, didn’t we? Yes, yeah. And **anon** dropped one of my dolls
EOS and the head smashed into pieces. And I was so horrified I lifted
my arms up and dropped mine. So I had EOS none at all EOS So both the
heads had gone. Oh what a shame and your mum had gone to all that
trouble. mm, yes, yes. Yeah, she w- she wasn’t- wasn’t particularly
good at sewing. But erm, she went to quite a bit of trouble to try and
make up for what wasn’t there. Something- What we couldn’t have. What
we didn’t have, exactly. But my sister arriving in forty four.
Everything went to her. Er the- I- I could not remember what a banana
looked like. I hadn’t ever had one, you see, that I could remember. I
can’t remember when I was little, no. Because I was three in thirty
nine. So when the bananas came, erm-. Now I don’t know how many there
were, whether there was only one, but my father- it had to be **anon**
that had the banana. I remember looking at this and thinking, ‘I
wonder what it really does taste like?’ EOS really does taste like.
And I didn’t find out, and I wonder why they did that in those days.
They could’ve given you half each. Could’ve given us half each, yes
they could actually. Erm so everything went to **anon**. Erm but it
never affected me in any way. Never bothered you, no I mean-. I was
never jealous. I was the first grandchild, spoilt. And then there was
**anon** and then **anon** was the first grandson. And he was spoilt.
mm, mm, mm EOS But because I suppose my nanna and granddad- granddad
in particular with **anon** I was- me nanna was for me. Me mum and dad
tried to make it up to **anon**. They gave her more. mm, yes, yeah.
Like I went to the grammar school, **anon** went to the grammar
school, so erm- made sure that **anon** went to **anon**. Oh right,
yes EOS And got a city and guilds in erm-. yes, catering, wasn’t it?
And then of course, **anon** and **anon** EOS **anon** came along
later on. Yes, a lot later. But my grandparents lived in **anon**, as
you know, and my grandmother would give my half brother half a crow,
which was quite a bit of EOS Ooh a lot of money in those days. And I
was given sixpence. I never had what he had. Because he was the son,
you know, the grandson. And apparently my father used to get so upset
about it and so annoyed, he’d take me home and give me half a crown.
mm, crown as well. Yes. Just to make it up. mm, cos we used to joke,
you know me mum made a lot of our clothes for **anon** and I. And of
course we’d say- course our **anon**’s came from Kendal Mills EOS Yes,
yeah. They were like that with sons. But erm- yes, yes. For some
reason and we’ve got far more equality today. And you don’t treat your
children any different at whatever age. No, me mum and dad didn’t
really, erm. Erm, because er- we’ve got a photograph of the three of
us and a friend of **anon** had knitted these fair-isle cardigans in
two ply. **anon** and I had cardigans, **anon** had erm- I think it
was a v-neck EOS And me mum made sure that the three of us had the
same. Yes. Yes, quality, mm, yeah. Yes, yeah. Tried to treat us all
the same. But erm- now then, what did I help out in the house a lot?
Well I had to do. yes I’m sure I did, I’m sure we had to really. Erm
washing up was always a pain, cos nobody wanted to dry. It’s strange
nobody likes drying isn’t it? No, no, nobody wanted to dry. So we used
to argue, the three of us, cos **anon** was too young. Erm and they
used to- did they have no washing up liquid Vivienne EOS Oh I don’t
remember washing up-. It was Persil. Persil, no washing up liq- We
used to put washing powder in EOS and wash the pots in washing powder.
I don’t remember washing up liquid. Oh they didn’t have it, no, no,
and my mother-. But when you think no washing up liquid, no washing
machine, or things like that. No- no they boiled everything, didn’t
they, in a boiler, but I do remember my mother grating fairy soap,
white blocks- sorry green blocks of fairy soap. Green blocks of fairy
soap. And she would grate it into the dolly tub. Er with boiling water
so it melted, an- and became- so it would clean the clothes properly.
mm, and then they- And they always washed on a Monday. And ironed on a
tuesday. Yes, yes. If they got it dry. Yes, routine, routine EOS mm,
was routine. And we had a cellar, where my mother had clothes EOS We
had cellars. And she used to hang her clothes EOS in the cellar to
dry. And we did have a very old coke burner down there for when the
sirens went and there was bombing. Oh the sirens yes. yeah and- and
erm, my grandfather had gone to the railways and he was a joiner, when
he was younger and lived in the Lake District. But he came down to
live with us and erm he went and got all these- erm, this- these
pieces of wood from the railway that- sleepers. And he propped the
whole of the ceiling of the cellar up in case we had an air-raid or a
bomb- yes we had our own sort of shelter at four-two-seven. At six-
six-three you used to go down in the cellar. But erm I remember my
nan, my nanna and **anon** heard the sirens. Went down into the
cellar. **anon** came home from work to find them in the cellar. ‘What
you doing in the cellar?’ ‘Well you know, the sirens went.’ They’d
gone down for the all-clear, hadn’t they? and they’d been there all
morning. Little things like that stick in your mind, don’t they? Oh
where were your- where are you parents from, well mine are from the
Lake District. Both living in Windemere. Er back-to-back and never
knew each other. Because my father was four years older than my
mother. But they didn’t find out until of course they met up, after
his first wife EOS And my- my mother was engaged to erm a- a man who
went out to Canada and lost all his money on the crash- Wall Street
crash. And said, ‘well I’ve got to start again, I’ll send for you,’
EOS and she said, ‘don’t bother I’m not waiting.’ EOS And meanwhile
her best friend who was my father’s cousin, girl. Erm just asked her
if she’d like to co- go out, as a foursome because EOS my father had
lost his wife EOS and she wanted to cheer him up and that’s how I
become- th- that’s how I ended up sitting here talking today. If
they’d never got together I wouldn’t be here. Well it’s true isn’t it?
Yes oh life is strange isn’t it? Mm EOS It is, because **anon** always
wanted- he did his national service and always wanted to stay in the
army. Oh did he? Yes he loved it. Absolutely loved it. Oh so why
didn’t he? Because his mother and father said, ‘if you stay in the
army, that’s it you’ve no mother and father.’ EOS What was the reason?
Because- well they thought it was erm a reflection on them that he
wanted to be away from home. But they never really got on, he got on
better with his father than EOS but then his father would say, ‘well
if you’d stayed in the forces, you would never have met Vivienne
**anon**.’ EOS And he said, ‘well I’m sure we would have done,’ EOS
‘because we were meant to be together.’ EOS So it’s funny how things
work out, isn’t it? Yes. Yes, was he an only one? With a terrible
mother. Oh she was- . Yes and yet she was in a way possessive, and yet
she hadn’t got a lot of time for him. So I could never weigh it all
up. Nothing ever made EOS Erm and his father was away a lot on
business. You know and if he did anything wrong, ‘wait ‘til your
father comes home!’ EOS And one incident, he’d been smoking when he
was about ten or eleven, with a friend. Friend had a- parents had a
pub and they went on the flat roof and he was so ill. And of course
his mother, ‘wait ‘til your father comes home!’ and then when his
father came home told him, ‘aren’t you going to give him a good
hiding?’ So he said, ‘he’s learnt EOS And he never really smoked
cigarettes again. Occasionally, if **anon** lit up he’d say, ‘ooh I
just fancy one,’ and he’d have one. But he never went out and bought a
packet of cigarettes. Mm, my parents didn’t smoke. But my brother did,
me half-brother did. And **anon** my half sister. mm, no me dad smoked
but me mum couldn’t stand it. Couldn’t stand it. I’ve never smoked.
No, no I haven’t. **anon** has smoked but gave it up some years ago.
Erm **anon** has the odd one, more a social- doesn’t sit at home
smoking. **anon** doesn’t smoke, **anon** doesn’t smoke. mm, and
actually my parents were tee-total. Until my father got to eighty and
then he used to have his brandy in a morning, to keep his heart going
he used to say. Well they used to say a drop of whiskey at night is
good for you. Well yes, they did. Yes, yes, but erm EOS That’s my
excuse if I have one. It’s good for me! Oh but erm, cos you read all
these things in the paper, you know and glass of red wine. Well it’s
beer today, apparently. I know that was in the paper the other day.
Giving- yeah keeping your heart going. Don’t like beer. I think I’ll
do without, mm, mm EOS Don’t like beer at all. No. What are local
people like? The people where I live- well they’re all very nice
really, it’s quite quiet, but it’s a- it’s such a good area, I mean
the house is up for sale, I can’t imagine why nobody buys it. Because
it’s such a super spot to be, you’ve got the railway, you’ve got-. mm,
everything’s to hand isn’t it, yes EOS Everything’s at hand, you’ve
got sports centres, you’ve got swimming pools, golf courses. You can
get into Manchester so quickly, and you can get onto the M- sixty-
sixty two, sixty-one, fifty six, in ten minutes. mm, I think you’re
better placed than I am, in Irlam, because the buses are about-
they’re supposed to be every ten minutes but they’re not EOS and
there’s only really one into Manchester. And there’s another one that
goes through Manchester into the Trafford centre, or the Trafford
centre into Manchester. And they’re about the only two. Yes and the-
the thing about the Trafford centre is- it- I didn’t like it when it
was first built, I thought it would kill off all the sho- local shops,
which it did. But I do enjoy going and I go at least twice a week. And
I don’t particularly buy erm, but I c- if I want to, everything’s
there. You can, yeah, yeah EOS I’ll just go because it’s very nice
inside and you can have a nice coffee and a cake on a morning. In John
Lewis, yes, mm EOS Yes. And er- and I do quite enjoy going and it’s
just so quick to get there and to park and-. It is, it’s no problem.
It’s just no problem, so that’s a great advantage to this area to me.
I’ve never been into Manchester for years and I don’t think I ever
will really. I’ve got- There’s nothing there for me. Well I go into
Manchester erm, normally every Thursday to meet two friends I used to
work with many years ago at ICI. Oh right. Yes, yes EOS And then I
meet another friend every other week on a Wednesday, that I used to
work with at ICI. So but normally I park in Marks and Spencers and
then on a Thursday have lunch in Marks, just a sandwich. One friend
moans the whole of the time EOS about the quality and the standard and
the noise, cos it is noisy in Marks and Spencers. Now if that
particular friend doesn’t come, er **anon** and I will go EOS which is
erm an Austrian patisserie. Ooh you should see the cakes! Mm, very
nice. Oh lovely. Erm then when I go with **anon** we go to the
**anon**. Where you can have a three course lunch for six pounds
fifty. And I might walk through the Arndale centre EOS erm, couple of
times recently I have had a bit of a walk round the Arndale but I’ve
been looking for specific shops. And there everything seems that
little bit bigger EOS than in the Trafford centre. Trafford centre,
yes. And on Sunday, **anon** and I and **anon** we’d taken **anon**
back to w- erm the station, erm we went into EOS the Arndale and I
think- I can’t remember what we were looking for. But I was surprised,
it was a Sunday and I was able to park in Marks and Spencers car park.
It’s not cheap, parking in- and it does add- it adds to me lunch when
I go. I used to go on the bus. But you get on the bus and then there’s
these girls that get on with EOS dripping in cheap jewellery, not a
ring in sight, and oh. If smoking was allowed they’d be EOS I’m not a
snob EOS but you know, you do have certain standards don’t you? I
think it’s the way we were brought up Maureen **anon**, respect. In
those days. Yeah. Yes probably. You respected your teachers and- and
we went to church and Sunday school, didn’t we? Yes we did. We
certainly did. And then the pictures after church on a Sunday night
sometimes, the EOS When you think about it. mm, yes we used to go on
to the pictures after we’d been to church. mm. And we’d done our duty,
hadn’t we? we’d been to church. Well, definitely! Yes those were the
days. But I think, I remember it being more difficult for food,
clothes and everything else after nineteen forty five. Because that’s
when it was really difficult, when they put bread on rationing. That
was awful. Yes because rationing went on for quite some time, didn’t
it? It went to about fifty two I think. Yes it went on for some time.
But it went worse- I don’t think we probably got the help from America
that we’d had during the war. Or thought we were going to get. yeah I
think so, mm. Because there was the air base in Warrington wasn’t
there? Burtonwood EOS Yes. The Americans, mm. erm and I know a friend
of my auntie’s went out with one of the EOS and er- he used to take to
erm **anon**, girlfriend, loads of sweets EOS So you know we had
sweets. in that way. But it was a long time before things were really
back to normal. Anything like- well, above- above the counter. And on
show, everything was under the counter. Nothing was on show. No food
was on show. And I know we had a chicken nearly ever week and it was a
friend of my granddad’s and me dad’s, used to get these live chickens
EOS and they were in Pendleton, and I had to go on the bus and bring
back EOS Dead chicken, was it plucked? Alive Maureen **anon**! Oh you
didn’t! And I’d no choice, I had to do it. How did you carry it? It
used to be in a bag, and EOS I’d be sitting on the bus, terrified in
case it made a noise. Our **anon** would say that he did it, but if he
did it, I don’t remember. It was me, because I was the eldest. He
might have come on the odd occasion to keep me company. But in the
main, it was me. So we always had-. Can I ask you, did you eat any of
it when you got home? Oh once me mum had killed it and cleaned it and
everything. And prepared it, oh EOS And it- mainly boiling . And she
used to make beautiful chicken soup. And erm our **anon** always had
the best of the chicken. And me mum would hide it under his rice, so
that **anon** and I couldn’t see it. Really? Oh that’s not right at
all is it? But that’s how it was, he got the best. It was, yes, he
did. And er- I mean we laugh about it, and the thing is, although we
know that he was in a way favoured, it never, has never- Any animosity
between you. There’s never been any jealousy among us. Between the
five of us, at all really. mm, mm, my mother lived on a farm, erm, and
my grandfather was a EOS Which was- it- you know he- he rented and he
worked for the farmer and it was in Warrington, cos he came down all
the way from the Lake District, how they got down I’ve no idea. No, no
motorways. But they always- no and they were on this farm called
**anon**, which is still there in- in Warrington, Daresbury actually.
And my mother went to school at Daresbury village. And erm she said
that my father- my grandfather always had- if they had an egg, they
only got the top off the egg, and gra- and her father got the whole
egg. Cos he was the working- he was working. and he was providing. And
she said there was ce- there were- there were lots of vegetables, and
she said, ‘he never took anything that wasn’t his’. And she said, ‘we
could’ve lived really well if he’d just- taken a few of these veggies
and brought them home.’ EOS Yeah, vegetables, mm EOS But he never did.
Never took anything that wasn’t theirs they were so EOS Mm, then they
went back of course, went back to erm-. The Lake District. Yes went
back to Ulverston, mm EOS mm, I was looking at the Lake District on
the telly the other night, erm- did you watch it? Yes, yes I did
actually, I’d seen it before. Yes, I’ve seen it before but I watched
it again. Erm and I thought, ‘oh we did have some nice little breaks
up in the lake district.’ EOS Yes. My cousin that still lives there,
erm her grandson is erm- well his girlfriend, who lives on **anon**,
which is the island that nobody’s- mmhmm, yes, in the middle bit EOS
I’ve often wondered if anybody lived there. yes, it’s a beautiful
house EOS Is it, mm, mm EOS It’s the **anon** that have got that. The
people who had the insurance company, **anon** insurance company. And
they bought the island and they live there. And this is their
daughter. And she swam the English channel about two weeks ago. For
charity, yes. She’s a st- I think she’s a student now, I- I th- - I’m
not sure whether- she’s got two grandsons, and I’m not sure whether
this particular grandson is the one that’s living locally in
Manchester, come down from the Lake District erm cos there are two of
them and I do get them confused and they’re both at university, or one
has EOS mm, mm, yes, yeah. But this girlfriend, yeah she swam the
English channel. Yes. swam the channel. Cos she- she let me know the
other week about it, yeah. mm, what about hat older lady swimming it?
And kept going off course? Oh did she, I’ve no- I didn’t see that.
Yeah and I’ve forgot- I’ve forgotten how long it took her, but she did
it. But it took her hours and hours. The English Channel? Hours and
hours and hours. You’ve got the jellyfish problem with the English
Channel. haven’t you, really? Mm, No it was nice, watching the Lake
District, yes EOS Yes very beautiful if it’s not raining. Ooh, the
very first time we went on the Friday afternoon, it was raining so
hard. ‘Oh what have we done, why have we come?’ But then Saturday and
Sunday it was glorious. mm, mm, beautiful, mm EOS Mm, they’ve had very
bad weather this last winter. Mm with the snow and everything. Yes a
lot of- yes, yeah and rain. I mean that’s why I can’t understand the
reservoirs being so low. When we’ve had so much snow. My cousin, when
she was telling me about these- this er grandson’s girlfriend. Erm she
said, ‘oh you wouldn’t believe how low they are.’ She said, ‘we’ve
been out and we’ve been looking and they’re extremely EOS I know when
we used to drive over to Harrogate erm on the M-sixty- two, we always
looked at one reservoir, ‘oh it’s a bit low this y- this week.’ EOS Do
you know the one I mean? Yeah, yeah I go that way. Yes and er we’d be
sort of, ‘oh there’s going to be a water EOS our **anon** had to defy
the hosepipe ban before. He what, sorry? Had to defy the hosepipe ban.
Because our **anon** got all dog’s poo on EOS And so he had to swill
them down. Did he? I hope this is not being used in evidence against
him EOS for a thousand pounds. I never thought about that EOS mm, well
I mean, I use my hosepipe to fill my watering can and my gra- my son-
in-law said, ‘you can’t do that it’s illegal.’ I said, ‘rubbish. It
can’t be illegal.’ But I’ll tell you one thing. This hosepipe ban is
so ridiculous cos you waste more money- sorry more EOS In a watering
can. Well I think so, Maureen **anon** too. Because you’re being- it’s
pouring out and EOS and if it was coming out as a spray EOS and a
shower, it would go into the flowers and everything quicker. But it’s
just going over the tops and- and going on the- one the road. On the
pavements. I think it’s worse. I think it’s silly. Mm, I do. Yes, but
still. I can understand them saying the hosepipe ban for washing cars
at EOS Well at home but what about these- but you can still- can you
still take them to the-? Oh yes you can still take them to these
places. Places to have them cleaned. Oh right, right. I didn’t realise
that. I mean the gardeners that I have, **anon** said that he’d looked
it up on the erm internet EOS and it was so complicated, what you
could, what you couldn’t do, oh yes, yes, that in the end, he gave up.
United utilities saying one thing, somebody else saying something
else, and he thought, ‘just don’t get it.’ EOS mmhmm, mm, no. Well my-
I’ve got one hanging basket, beautiful EOS because it’s rained on it
and the other one is slightly under the EOS at the front door and it’s
dead. And **anon** never bothered watering it. So I’ve had to get it
down and just let the tap run on it, so that’s wasted a lot of water.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Today, whether it will revive, I don’t think it
will. mm, c- It will, it will cos they said to me on Tuesday, I said,
‘I know what you’re going to say,’ I said, ‘well you see it has rained
so I thought to myself ‘I don’t need to water them,’ EOS But you still
need to water them, so-. Oh gosh you do because it doesn’t get
through. It only stays on the top. Hmm, how are we doing?