 Yeah. Can you just count to three please. EOS One, two, three. EOS
Yeah. Ok that’s great. When you’re ready. EOS Ok Arnold **anon**. I’ll
kick off- we’ll kick off with you shall we? EOS Your best or funniest
memory. EOS Best or funniest memory from when I was young. EOS When
you were young. EOS Can you remember that far back? EOS w- h- how
young are we talking about here? EOS Again it depends really on how
far back you can remember . EOS Yeah, I think the best- probably the
best memory I have of- of being young is- is Christmas time when all
the family used to get together in those days we- we always had all
our aunts and uncles and cousins round on Christmas day and- EOS and
erm- we- w- there wasn’t an awful lot of money but erm we used to have
quite a big s- slap up meal at lunchtimes and lots of games and lots
of fun. No television of course in those days so yeah that’s probably
the best memory I’ve got from being young. EOS How young were you
then? When you did- EOS when you did change? EOS I would think that
was from being- from as early as I can remember being through- going
through to being about twelve. Something like EOS So your life changed
soon after you’ve met me? EOS Yeah, yeah, yeah. EOS But erm a- as- as
people grew older they didn’t want to- EOS families got bigger as
well. They did- EOS th- they didn’t get together the same. EOS Up to
that age I erm- I think my Christmases were very similar in that
people came to us for a Christmas lunch. But because the erm,
accomodation that we had at the time was a bit cramped all the
children went into the back room and the adults were in the main
dining room cos that’s when we lived at the laundry. We had a chinese
laundry in those days. EOS And the- the front room was shop. EOS It
was where we did the ironing, stored the laundry that had been EOS And
the middle room was the living room where we did everything EOS And
the back room was the stove room. EOS There was a coal fired stove
with flat irons against it. But there was a big table in there as
well. So that’s where the kids sat to have their Christmas dinner. But
it was still good fun and happy times. EOS How many of you? EOS In
total people- oh- well there was- EOS three six erm I- I can’t think
of it. Two sisters at the time **anon** and **anon**, myself. **anon**
wasn’t with us then. EOS **anon** was an after thought. EOS I think my
mum thought she was going to get a new washing machine for Christmas
you know. She got **anon** instead. EOS Erm then there’d be my three
cousins **anon**, **anon**. You’ve met **anon** haven’t you? EOS and
there’d be my grandad. Auntie **anon**, mum, dad, uncle **anon** and
auntie **anon** they were **anon** parents. Uncle **anon** and auntie
**anon** they were Pamela’s **anon** parents. Auntie **anon** used to
come on her own because grandad didn’t like uncle **anon**- EOS and
uncle **anon** didn’t like Grandad . So he- had the- he had Christmas
dinner with his mother. EOS So there was a lot of us. EOS And erm the
odd friend. People like that used to pop in throughout the day. Erm-
but one of the most memorable things as a kid happened when I was at
the laundry. Erm when me grandmother was alive she used to make
beetroot wine. EOS And you had to wait for it to mature- EOS before
you drank it. But I was being a little bit eager and I opened one
before it was ready and it was like champagne and this red fizz went
a- all over- EOS Ah- oh no. EOS freshly laudered sheets, shirts,
pillow cases. EOS A whole days washing was absolutely ruined. And I
think I went to me bedroom, locked it, and I was there for two day .
EOS I was scared stiff of me grandad. EOS He really did rule the
roost. EOS Yeah. Fearsome character but erm extremely kind as well -
EOS and hard working. EOS His day used to start at about six o clock
in the morning and go on till three o’clock the following morning. EOS
That was Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. Thursday, Friday, Saturday his
day started at nine and finished about five. EOS But the laundry was
all done by then and it was just a question of taking in new stuff and
delivering your- or doleing out the laundered stuff to the erm- the
regular customers cos they nearly all were regulars in those days. EOS
They all had their own laundry mark which was written on the back of
their laundry in small chinese writing EOS We didn’t know the names we
just knew the mark EOS Yeah but that was all before I knew you wasn’t
it Arnold **anon** the EOS That’s right yeah. EOS You hardly ever went
did you to the laundry? EOS No I never went to the laundry no. We- we
had erm- when I was nine year old we- we moved into a shop. We used to
have a shop in **anon**. My mother’s ran the shop. It was erm- EOS
ladies and children’s wear shop. EOS We had a few different sidelines
as well. And my mother used to work six days a week in that. EOS Me
dad was an engineer so he went out to work where he used to help on a
Saturday. EOS And erm when we were there for six years altogether and
erm one of the things I think I’ve mentioned this to Barney **anon**
before that always sticks in my mind that was on- on a Saturday
because my mother was still working in the shop- EOS I used to go to
the local chip shop for lunch and I used to get three lots of fish and
chips for half a crown in total. Now half a crown was twelve and a
half pence. So that just shows how prices have changed. EOS But erm
one of the best things about living there was the fact that we had a
double cellar and in the cellar we used to have a- a shooting EOS With
an air rifle. EOS Erm and my dad would set up so you could- you could-
you could put targets- three targets in at one end- EOS and th- and
then shoot down this little- EOS walled area and erm- EOS we also used
to do photography as well in the cellar. We used to d- do our own
developing and printing and erm cos we had running water in this
cellar. We had a sink in the corner so- so erm yeah good times yeah.
But it- EOS Yeah we used to do some of that didn’t we at- EOS We did
that in erm- EOS in my bedroom. EOS in- in the attic didn’t we. EOS
Yeah in the attic but there was no running water there. EOS I don’t
know how we coped really. EOS We did everything in my bedroom. EOS
There was a snooker table. EOS Yeah and we did the photography on top
of the snooker table. EOS And when we weren’t doing the photography we
were playing snooker. And somehow we managed to fit my bed at the
other end. EOS Yeah. It was a big s- a big attic. EOS That was a big
attic bedroom. And it wasn’t a small snooker table it was a three
quarter size snooker table. EOS It was too big for a normal house and
I gave it to erm a youth club- EOS in **anon** and erm unfortunately
it closed down soon afterwards didn’t EOS Oh no . EOS And I don’t know
what happened to that table. EOS Erm todays prices it was probably
worth about five, six hundred EOS But nobody wanted it cos nobody had
room for it. Sign of the times. EOS **anon** taken my glasses away. I
know it’s big print. EOS Are they yours? EOS Mm? It’s alright. EOS I
can read just fine. EOS shall we move on to another- EOS Would you
like some water? I’ll just get some. EOS Do you want me to- I can get
you some if you like. EOS We’ll carry on talking. EOS Where are the
glasses? EOS Ah. Ask **anon** she’ll know. EOS Were there a lot of
kids to play with when you were growing up? EOS There was when I- when
I lived in **anon** before we moved to the shop. Erm there were quite
a few kids in the street and they- EOS erm all similar aged. Erm and
because it was a cul-de-sac it had a sort of a- a- it opened out and
there was a- a- a good play area for kids but we had all the fields at
the back as well. EOS And erm yeah there were quite of- quite a number
of erm both bl- boys and girls to play with. EOS Erm I was saying the
age difference probably was three or four years older than me to three
or four years younger than me. So lots of kids. EOS Yeah I was the
same. We had lots of kids when I was at junior school because in those
days most kids went to school near where they lived. EOS Nobody went
to school by car. EOS I don’t know how we managed. Thank you. EOS You
get a waitress service as well. EOS You got some- can I have one of
those mats? EOS Can I just say when we went to junior school all the
kids lived near EOS Nobody ever went to school in a car. EOS Not even
the teachers. EOS They didn’t have cars did they. Oh I think maybe the
headmaster did. EOS Maybe I think b- by the time we went to grammar
school they probably EOS Yeah. Headmaster had one. EOS but I don’t
remember any of the- any of the teachers at junior school EOS cars at
all. But at grammar school they used to park just behind- well- well I
went to **anon** school. There’s- I did three years at **anon** school
erm before I moved to **anon** where Barney **anon** was. EOS Erm
travelling from the shop in **anon** was about four miles to **anon**
school from there and there were probably three or four teachers had
cars in those days. EOS And one of the- one of the erm- the thing that
everybody envied was my cousin. He was in the sixth form when I
started. EOS And he had a motorbike and he used to park this motorbike
in the- in the little- there was a little extension to the playground
where the EOS parked their cars. And he used to erm leave his bike
there and I was the envy of the other kids when I got a lift home with
him. EOS Yeah. We had a g- EOS Cause there were no crash helmets in
those- you just got on the back and went didn’t you. EOS Yeah there
were always a couple of guys at **anon** school had motorbikes and
they were always the ones that had girlfriends and erm- EOS They’d
imaged themselves on James Dean and erm- EOS who you might’ve heard
of. EOS And they were always the rebels who left school with no
O-levels and EOS but lots of girlfriends. EOS Lots of reputation
behind them- EOS which they c- couldn’t put on theirs CVs . EOS But at
junior school lots of kids to play with. Erm- EOS Out- out playing
everyday. Erm I don’t think our parents had any fears about us going
out and s- being out. EOS When we lived at the shop in **anon** there
was just down the lane was a park with swings and- and roundabouts
and- EOS sliding and erm we used to spend all day there sometimes you
know you- you didn’t w- h- worry about your kids being out. EOS Never
heard of paedophiles and erm- EOS Well it was a word that hadn’t been
invented I don’t think. EOS Erm I don’t think it had no and- EOS Erm
we had one in Eccles who I now realise was a paedophile. EOS Everyone
knew him so you just avoided him. EOS He was called **anon**. EOS and
he wore a big fedora- EOS Keep it anonymous. EOS Yeah I’ll not tell
you his surname. EOS And he wore a big long mac and great big boots.
He was straight off a Lowry. Erm and he had a most horrible face and
sometimes you could walk down towards **anon**- EOS and you’d see him
on the aquaduct. You could- his image was there. So y- you now had to
decide did you wait for your mate before you went over the bridge to
go to church- EOS or did you just wait ‘til he was looking the other
way and run like EOS Well that’s how we coped with paedophilia in
those days. Just EOS I never got that close to him. I don’t re- EOS I
don’t remember what he looked like . EOS Oh I- I go- EOS I think he
was just a legend when I went to- EOS when I got to **anon**. EOS I
got too close to his brother one day erm- there was a guy who was in
our year at grammar school **anon**. Do you remember **anon**? EOS Oh
he lived near **anon** and he had a mad brother. And if people used to
hang about outside their house he’d open the window and he used to
have a jerry under the bed. EOS A wee pot or whatever . And he used to
empty it. EOS So- over whoever was standing outside his house. EOS Aye
that was **anon**. EOS But we were lucky where we lived **anon**
because there were lots of EOS Erm **anon** didn’t exist and you were
soon going toward **anon** EOS and round there there were lots and
lots of fields where you could just enjoy yourself and- EOS go home
with jam jars full of newts and tadpoles and erm- EOS Tha- that’s
right and there was- EOS and there was no traffic on the roads. There
was- EOS there were very few cars so you- you- there was danger of
crossing main roads and- mm- EOS No you could go on your bike
anywhere. EOS I mean regular bike trips were- EOS places like Lymm,
Pickmere. EOS And if you were really fit Chester or Southport. EOS
Mind you I did Chester once and I was so tired when I got there. EOS
Had my- had my sandwiches bottle of pop., and I said ‘we’d better get
EOS ‘If I stay much longer I’ll fall asleep and I’ll never get home’.
Ah- it seems to take forever in a car now. EOS It takes- it seems to
take longer in a car than it used to on the EOS It’s- so does
Southport. EOS I’m sure. Used to- we always used to reckon Southport
was thirty EOS I’m sure it’s- it- it’s the road system. Must be the
road system these days it’s- it’s nearer forty- EOS I noticed one of
the questions here says did you ever get hurlt- hurt whilst playing
when you were a kid? I remember breaking my arm once. EOS We used to
have- in our garden we used to have a- a six foot wall at the back.
Drop down. And we used to swing on a s- on a washing line- EOS out and
drop into the garden. EOS And my f- ankle got tangled up in the rope.
EOS So I swung out and my ankle stayed where it was- EOS and I went
down and I broke my arm. That’s erm- I’ve only had three breaks in my
life and that was the first one. EOS I’ve- I’ve never had a break. EOS
Mind you I’ve never played rugby and you have. EOS My only- I’ve only
had one break playing rugby and that was this erm metatarsal but erm I
broke my ankle playing soccer- EOS when I was about eighteen,
seventeen perhaps. Mm. EOS Yeah the only visit I had to erm casualty
as we used to call it not accident and emergency was when I fell off a
swing. Must’ve been about nine, ten and there was a little bit of
competition going on to see who could do the most daring things on the
swing. EOS Like jump off while it was still in the air and not using
your hands and just s- sticking with it and I got to the back swing
and just fell off chin first. EOS Yes it was that scar. EOS Still got
a scar? EOS So I went home. Mum took me to **anon** casualty and the
nurse s- said ‘Oh well that’s one way to lose a bit of fat isn’t it’
EOS then she just got her scissors out and cut the excess fat off and
stitched it up. EOS Done and dusted. No local. Erm so that was
swinging. Erm- Yeah, the only other time in casualty, was erm three
years ago when I fell. Tripped over **anon**- EOS Oh aye you did yeah.
EOS **anon** the dog. EOS I nearly lost me thumb and I had to have-
EOS they couldn’t count the stitches. Well I couldn’t. I just got fed
up of trying to keep count. It was all round here as far as there. EOS
I was lucky that **anon** was around and erm she wrapped a towel
around it. Put it in the air. EOS And she drove me to hospital. And it
was the first time she’d driven EOS ‘I’ve never driven it before’. But
you’ll soon learn. EOS How are we doing for time **anon**? EOS Erm
twenty one minutes. EOS Shall we mo- shall we move on? EOS nearly-
nearly half term. Yes lets move on. EOS It’s all about school and
we’ve t- EOS Oh we done- EOS we’ve touched on school. EOS touch-
touched on school and erm- what have we got there scholarsh-? EOS No
where did you go to school it says. EOS Where did you go to school. Oh
here right. EOS Well I started at **anon** school. EOS **anon** for
short. Erm **anon** was a victorian philanthropist who did things like
building hospitals and schools. EOS And he built one in **anon** for
the erm Church of England children who lived in **anon**. There was
already a Church of England school there attached to the church- EOS
called **anon**- **anon** but it was the other side of **anon**. EOS
And very few lived on that side . EOS Most of the kids lived on the
**anon** side. And that’s probably one reason why he sited it where he
did in erm- in **anon**. EOS And I should think the bridge was
probably closed a lot more in those days as well than it is- it is
today- EOS Oh it’s very busy traffic yeah. EOS cause there was a lot
of traffic up and down- EOS the ship canal- EOS I bet it was opened
and closed every hour. EOS to the docks. EOS There was a- always
queues. EOS I remember queues when I first started driving every time
I tried to cross **anon** bridge. EOS Went there from five ‘til- five
years ‘til I was ten and then **anon** ‘til I was seventeen. Seven
years there. EOS Mm. I started at **anon** school in erm **anon** or
**anon** on the border I think which was just a- a standard state
school. Quite big classes in those days about- I think I remember
there were forty eight kids in EOS Erm and there were- it was quite a
big school because there were four streams A, B, C, and D in the
secondary school and we erm- EOS tended t- to have just one teacher
for all the lessons. EOS Erm and I remember that starting in the
second year at junior school and the- the teacher came in- our form
teacher and started writing on the board in real writing. And none of
us had learnt real writing before that time- EOS so he realised he had
to stop and teach us how to do real writing- EOS before he could teach
us anything else. EOS So that’s- that’s the- the time we learnt it.
And then in the fourth year we all took our eleven plus t- to g- see
if we could go to EOS And out of the school- out of the year there
were twelve people passed their eleven plus. EOS And I was one of them
and I went to **anon** grammar school. EOS And erm touching on one of
these questions here. First day at- at school at **anon** school.
There was an initiation ceremony and between two sets of steps and the
school there was a like erm a- a- the- the bank went down and then
there was like a- a gully which was about three foot wide and three
foot deep. Erm and probably ten yards wide at the very most and all
the first year kids were thrown into that- EOS on the first day. EOS
So there were probably fifty or sixty kids crammed into this thing.
EOS And if you ever- EOS if you tried to get out you got thrown back
in- EOS Was it that- EOS And that was called a monkey run. EOS Was
that an all boys school- EOS No no no no- EOS or was it mixed? EOS
that was- it was mixed but it was segregated playgrounds of course.
EOS Yeah yeah we had that. EOS Yeah it was mixed yeah. EOS Yeah. That
erm- so that was- EOS Yeah w- w- we had it like that. EOS the monkey
run. Everybody in brand new school uniforms- EOS got thrown in the
dirt you know. The first day. EOS Well I suppose ours was a cleansing
our i- initiation ceremony. You had your head put in the toilet and
the toilet flushed. EOS I think a lot of headmasters in those days
tried to run their schools along public school lines. EOS And erm they
must have knew- known these intiation ceremonies were EOS Oh yeah
yeah. EOS and it were just ‘part of school life old chap’. EOS You
know . EOS Erm cos I presume you had to wear a school cap did you? EOS
We had to wear a school cap at all times on the way to school- EOS on
the way home from school, lunchtimes if you went out. Although you
weren’t generally allowed out of school unless you were going home for
EOS Yeah then you had to have written permission for that didn’t you.
EOS Yeah yeah. Well I- I once got erm into trouble for going out of
school at lunchtime. We used- we used- we used- EOS Well I did. It was
when I went out with you to the local café EOS But this was when I was
at **anon**- EOS Had a quick pepsi and a woodbine . EOS We got- we got
caned. Two of us went out to buy a bottle of sauce to have with our
school dinner. EOS And we were on second sitting and we got caught.
Called before the headmaster and we got caned for erm going out of
school at lunchtime. EOS what kind of sauce was it? EOS Or Daddies I’m
not sure. One or the other. EOS Yeah yeah . EOS Did you have to wear
short trousers? EOS No we- we- we weren’t obliged to wear short
trousers. I wore long trousers in the first year. EOS Oh. We were erm-
EOS But no we could wear long trousers. EOS third year before we could
wear long trousers. EOS When I joined **anon** school in the forth
year there were still some of the lads- EOS wearing short trousers-
EOS in the forth year and that would’ve been what age fifteen,
sixteen? EOS Yeah well if the parents still thought ‘those shorts
still fit’- EOS I’m not buying you long trousers just bec- EOS Waste
of money. EOS Yeah waste of money. EOS Yes it was erm- the girls wore
gym slips in the winter and dresses in EOS Which they don’t seem to do
now do they. EOS That’s right they- that was erm- that was the same at
**anon**. The girls had a uniform dress for the summer- EOS for the
summer term. And the other two terms they had to wear gym slips up to
a certain age and then it was skirts and blouses wasn’t it after a
certain age and ties- EOS Oh yes after y- about forth year. Yeah. EOS
Yeah. White blouses. EOS Yeah I’ve- I’ve got one of those old school
photographs that’s about a yard long- EOS or two yards long. And you
can see all the different uniform styles- EOS according to their ages
on that. EOS Show that to **anon** actually- EOS It’s quite
interesting- EOS cause I- I think we both- EOS Did you have them taken
in your school? EOS Yeah the long ones. EOS Yeah. I think we’re both
on that one aren’t we? EOS I think we are yeah. EOS Is that the fifty
nine one- fifty eight one? EOS Fifty eight, fifty nine something like
that yeah. EOS Fifty eight yeah. Yeah. EOS Yeah. You’re on the back
row. EOS I was showing **anon** the other night. EOS Were you? . EOS
Yeah came across it. Yeah. EOS Yes so we both remember our first days
at school then. EOS I- I- my initiation was easy because I knew some
of the lads in the second year and erm they did me a favour and erm
made sure I didn’t get too much of a ducking in the toilets . EOS They
wanted me to play football in their team as well. EOS I spent my life-
EOS school life being favoured and because I had a certain amount of
what most people thought was a little bit of talent at EOS And erm it
was misguided. This lad, cricket I was selected for the school cricket
team. And I was still in shorts and it was ridiculous going out to
play cricket in shorts. EOS So my mum had to take me to the co-op in
Eccles to buy me some white long trousers to play cricket. EOS And I
never got a bat or a bowl. I must’ve been a pretty good fielder EOS
Mm. We used to erm- well we both played for the same under fifteens-
EOS Oh yeah yeah. EOS football team. **anon** was captain who we still
see occassionally. EOS And erm Barney **anon** was vice captain and
I’d just joined the school in the fourth year. And played in one or
two games classes and they picked me to play on the under fifteens
team. EOS So we’ve got a photograph of that somewhere. EOS We have.
Yeah. EOS Was the team good? EOS We played in- and then we played e-
for the school team didn’t we the EOS And the erm- the full team. But
we were both quite keen on erm athletics and- and sports as well. EOS
I never played cricket very much but erm- EOS I used to join in all
the erm different sports day activities. EOS Yeah I was erm junior
athletics champion. Me and **anon**, **anon**- EOS That were before
erm- EOS Before you joined wasn’t it. EOS oh yeah cos you were a year-
no it’s probably the year I joined. But you were in- you were a year
younger than me. EOS So you were still in junior school weren’t you.
EOS Well I w- I was- EOS in the second year. EOS Oh is- it was when
you were in second year was it. EOS Yeah I think to get- EOS junior
you had to be under thirteen. EOS Did you yeah. EOS Cause I came
second to **anon** in the erm middle school. EOS Erm Rex Ludorum they
used to call it. EOS King of the games. EOS I came- I came second and
**anon** came third. Much to his annoyance. EOS He’d been bragging the
year before- EOS that he was gonna win it. EOS what was the leading
girl called? If the leading man was Rex or Victor- Victor Ludorum
wasn’t it- the erm the men or the- EOS Was it Victor a- EOS at
**anon**. It was Rex at **anon**. EOS Was it? Erm it was Victor at
**anon**. EOS Victor at **anon**. Victor Ludorum. EOS I don’t know
what the girl got called. EOS No I only did Latin for one year. EOS
Don’t know. Didn’t- I didn’t know any girls called Victor. EOS
Victorlia- Victoria Ludarum- Ludorum EOS Oh blimey. No no- EOS I don’t
know what’s the female- EOS that would- that would stay- EOS what’s
the female adjec- EOS that would stay no Ludorum. EOS W- Ludorum would
be the same. EOS Th- that would- that wouldn’t- that wouldn’t be
sexed. EOS You don’t change it like in French from petit to petite.
EOS No it’s- that- that Ludorum means ‘of the games’ doesn’t it? EOS
So it could’ve been erm- EOS Yeah Victoria Ludorum . EOS Vict-
could’ve been Victris or some- Victrix. EOS Victrix or something like
that I suppose. EOS **anon** from Mercedes Benz. EOS Erm could I give
him a ring back if you get his number? Please EOS Oh ab- another half
an hour at least. EOS They always say ‘are you happy with your car?’
and I think yeah EOS Yes, music music. We did a lot music together
didn’t we. School choir- EOS Well yeah we were in- EOS at gammar
school. EOS the school choir and then- EOS No I wasn’t in the school
orchestra. EOS No. No I never went in the sc- well what did you play
in the school- EOS I played guitar but it- it was the cello part. EOS
Oh yeah it’s right. EOS That was after I’d left I think. EOS It was
when I was in the sixth form. EOS The teacher just put a few- EOS
notes down that normally a cellist would play. EOS And I had to just
plonk them out . EOS But we erm- we played at the school concert
didn’t we. EOS Played at school- school con- EOS Our school dance. EOS
school dance yeah. As a group. EOS At the hop. EOS Yeah. Yeah we- EOS
Did we call them dances or did we- we didn’t call them hops or EOS No
no no no. It was the school dance. Yeah- EOS at erm- we were the first
group ever- EOS to play at a school dance. EOS That was in nineteen
fifty eight. Christmas dance. EOS Aye. And what did you- EOS I can
even remember what songs we played . EOS What you sang . Go- w- w-
what songs did you play? EOS It was erm- I sang erm Tom Dooley and erm
what was the other one. Flip side of it. What was it called? EOS Run
a- rock my soul. EOS Rock my soul in the bosom of- EOS And you sang-
EOS Travelling Light. Mm. EOS And we’re still practising. EOS still
can’t play. But I think we did- did we just do that one EOS Did they
ask us back? EOS Well I w- well I left. EOS You left of course yeah.
EOS I left that Christmas. EOS Yeah w- yeah I started work. Yeah. EOS
Yeah w- we went on to bigger- bigger and better venues after school.
EOS I- Eccles town hall was our last appearance. **anon** was the
first EOS Yeah. And then he went off to university so we split up
then. EOS and him and the lead guitarist and the drummer they prefered
to buy cars and motorbikes and things instead of amplification. EOS
But we didn’t- no- not- no- EOS but we’d have- we wouldn’t have been
able- w- we had amplification of EOS As such- yeah. Of a sort. EOS We
had microphones sellotaped- EOS to the back of our guitars. EOS
leading into reel to reel tape recorders. EOS So it was really not
loud at all EOS Mm. Oh it w- it was a treat to have played at a venue
where they had a microphone wasn’t it- EOS Oh aye they had their own
PA system. EOS because quite a few of them didn’t. EOS So there were
no mic- no amplification in some of them. EOS The school had a- a
microphone didn’t they. EOS And the erm- certainly Eccles town hall
did. EOS Yeah and Urmston baths. EOS Urmston baths is- do you remember
when it was the erm circular one? EOS Is that when it was the Curzon?
EOS Opposite the Curzon. EOS Mm. I- my dad’s told me about it. EOS
Yeah, well they used to have dances there. EOS They used to put boards
over the- the pool EOS and we played there once at Urmston and Flixton
junior football league’s presentation evening. EOS We sounded good
with the echoes and- EOS Oh yeah yeah the echoes. EOS the water and-
EOS the roof top. And it was a complete dome at the top made out of
glass and one year I think it was s- let me see **anon** was about six
or seven. It’d have been about nineteen eighty. We had in- tremendous
hale stones. Bigger than golf balls. EOS And they went right through
the roof of Urmston baths. EOS And of course all the glass followed
and all the tiles were damaged EOS the council said it’s erm not
economical to repair. So they knocked EOS Oh is that why? EOS Oh I
didn’t know that. EOS and it was a magnificent building. Th- EOS I’ve
seen a picture of- mm. EOS they had diving boards and erm nice café
sauna. Did you ever go? Erm- EOS I think I probably just went the odd
time. EOS But I used to **anon** when I was younger and we used to go
from school. We were taught to swim from school went to **anon**. EOS
Yeah we went to **anon**- EOS from junior school. EOS But at grammar
school there was no swimming at all was there. EOS that was- that was
quite- and **anon**. I- I went to **anon** a few times. I lot of my
youth I spent in the scouts and the sea scouts based at **anon** from
being about thirteen year old- EOS up to it was probably about twenty
six when I packed it in altogether EOS What we used to do spend a load
of time goin away camping and- EOS Yeah. But erm- EOS Well my grandad
wouldn’t allow me to go in the scouts. He didn’t believe in it. EOS
And grandad’s word was gospel. EOS He said it’s like Hitler youth. EOS
He thought it was an army for kids. EOS But being **anon** he wanted
to be very, very English and tow the line. So Sundays we weren’t
allowed to play out. We were not forced but highly encouraged to go to
church. EOS So eventually I joined the church choir at about the age
of seven or eight. So that meant you soon got promotion cos there
weren’t many boys in the choir. I think there were four of us. You
soon got promotion to alter boy. EOS And then after confirmation you
had to go to the early morning mass. You took it in turns at going to
eight o’clock or nine o’clock. Then you were singing at eleven o’clock
mattins. You had to go to Sunday school at two o’clock . EOS And then
six thirty evensong. EOS Busy day . EOS So busy day. So you didn’t
have- really have time to play out on a EOS Well everybody went to
Sunday school in those days- EOS but it was- it was only once for me.
There was no choir cos it was a little mission church down in
**anon**. EOS Ah. Well the- the- the choir was the undoing of the
church in many ways. Because we got a little bit beyond our station.
We started singing very high brow stuff like- EOS Handel’s Messiah
and- EOS we had to have erm choral communion every first Sunday in the
month. EOS And the congregation got a bit fed up with it. EOS Cause it
wasn’t the sort of stuff where you could join in the chorus EOS No no
no. EOS And the c- congregation dwindled until there were more people
in the choir than in the congregation. EOS And the erm th- the vicar
wasn’t very dynamic and his wife was always a little bit tipsy. EOS
She used to come in and stagger down the aisle half way- EOS half way
through the service. EOS Her hair all over the place . EOS So they
knocked it down. And erm the school still remains **anon** EOS You
know where I mean? On one side on the- EOS Yeah the little school
house there. EOS Erm that’s up for sale. EOS Well the church was the
other side wasn’t it? EOS The church has gone. EOS Yeah the church was
the other side of the school. EOS That’s been flattened. EOS My sister
got married there. Erm I think she was the last one ever to get
married there. Erm- EOS Yeah so I was an usher at that wedding and I
was a very poor student EOS And I couldn’t possibly have worn me best
suit cos it didn’t look very best at all. EOS So I went to C and A and
all I could afford was one that was five pounds fifteen shillings. EOS
It looked really smart and it lasted for the wedding. And then about a
week later I was out in the rain with it and it’s like just falling
EOS It was. It was glued. It wasn’t stitched. EOS So it was an
expensive suit really considering I only wore it twice- EOS before I
had to throw it away.