 No right channel between 4.27 and 5.05 EOS count to five EOS yep,
one, two, three, four, five EOS one, two, three, four, five EOS yep,
that’s fine EOS Off you go EOS So Bruce **anon** where are- where are
your parents from? EOS Right. That’s an interesting one. EOS mm, it
is! EOS My mum was born **anon**. My dad was born in **anon**, which
is Manchester. But his parents- er his father was from **anon**, and
his mother was from **anon**. EOS Mm that’s interesting isn’t it? EOS
Yeah, so my father was sent back to **anon** when he was a boy. And he
could speak **anon** fluently. Er, **anon**. EOS yeah and then what
about- EOS how did he meet your mum then? EOS It was when he went back
to **anon**. EOS To learn English? EOS No to learn **anon**. EOS To
learn- sorry to learn **anon**. EOS So they came back, I think me mum
was nineteen. EOS And it was before the days of air travel. So they
came on a boat. EOS To Liverpool, is that right? Am I right that they
were-? EOS That’s where they would have landed, no, but the family had
moved to Manchester by then. It was me Granddad who-. EOS But didn’t
they start off in Liverpool? EOS Yeah that was my Granddad, but then
he came to Manchester. EOS you’re Granddad, right, yeah. EOS Cos even
in those days it was a little bit rough, EOS I think, in- in Liverpool
. EOS Yeah so he came to Manchester, and was first in **anon**, before
they moved to **anon**. EOS And that sort of diagonal side to
Manchester really. EOS Yeah, so what about your parents? EOS Well mine
are very boring compared to that. EOS They’re actually erm, both from
**anon**, which is now classed as Salford. And erm interestingly, erm,
certainly my mother erm, grew up close to your brothers and sisters.
EOS Just- ju- . EOS Just down the road actually. EOS From- in a place
called **anon**. EOS Well **anon** and then **anon**. Well actually my
father actually was probably more from **anon**. EOS Wasn’t he,
really? So me mum and dad actually lived fairly close to each other.
But went to different schools, there’s seven years between them, so
erm- they didn’t really meet up until er- I think me mum was in her
early twenties then. Although they only- didn’t really live that far
down the road from each other. EOS Erm but getting back to my mum,
erm. EOS What it was with my husband’s family, er they owned erm,
**anon**, in- EOS It wasn’t a laundrette, a laundry EOS Well a
laundry, sorry EOS Get the words right. In **anon** and- EOS It was
laundrettes what put them out of business EOS Yeah it was the
laundrettes that put the- yeah so the laundry- EOS so all- everything
was hand washed in this- EOS and erm- and that’s- and they were very
erm- had a good reputation. And so obviously my mum knew about the
laundry, don’t know whether she used it or not. EOS Well she went to
the same school as my elder brothers and-. EOS Well, me older brother
and sisters. EOS So they all knew each other. EOS yeah, they were
quite- quite a well-known family, **anon**. Because I think- are we
the only **anon** family there? At the time? EOS Erm p- probably the
first. EOS There was another family further into **anon**. EOS but
that was bit later. EOS But sort of in that vicinity, they were
probably the only ones. EOS So- and with you having that laundry,
erm-. EOS And yeah, getting back to my mum, she went to school with-
was she the year below **anon**? Or above **anon**? I think she was a
year above EOS A little bit older than **anon**. EOS She was in the
year above **anon** and erm-. EOS And I think your Auntie **anon** was
a little bit younger than **anon**. EOS Yeah. So me mum’s sister was
at school with- she went to **anon**- no she didn’t did she? EOS Well
they all went to the same junior school. No right channel EOS They
went to the pri- the same- yeah, she went- yeah but me nan sent her to
**anon**, so she went there EOS Yeah and **anon** did. EOS So there’s
quite a lot of er family links. EOS And when I met Bruce **anon**, my
husband, EOS erm when I told my mum I was going out with this lad and
said, ‘he’s part **anon**’ and he- he knows you from **anon**, my mum
said, ‘oh I wonder if it’s the **anon**- one of the **anon**? Oh
crikey! Well I hope so cos they’re such a lovely family.’ EOS And I
said, ‘oh right okay, well, I’ll ask him what his surname is,’ cos I
think I’d only been on one date with him, EOS so I didn’t know what
his surname was. And as it turns out it was **anon**. And so then erm-
he was introduced. EOS Everything was okay then. EOS Everything was
fine, and then when Bruce’s **anon** mum found out my- the origins of
my family, EOS and I was one of **anon** erm granddaughters. EOS ooh,
lovely family, so everybody was happy. EOS oh, that’s good Right
channel resumes EOS Right, so erm have you lived any- . EOS No, this
is a good one for you. EOS go on then! EOS Did you move house at all
when you were younger? And what memories do you have of this? EOS Why-
why’s that a good one? EOS You moved a few times, didn’t you? EOS
Yeah, you moved house three times didn’t you? EOS When I was younger?
EOS No I didn’t! EOS I only moved from **anon** EOS Well I thought
there were somewhere before that. EOS No, my Mum- EOS You moved to uni
as well didn’t you? EOS Oh are you talking about- it’s my childhood is
it, or? When I was younger- no but I went to live in **anon** when I
was eighteen, but- that was . EOS No but I thought- I though there was
somewhere before **anon**. EOS No, mum and dad, after they got
married, my mum and dad went to live in erm- on **anon**. EOS They
lived in a house on **anon**. But then once- then they moved to
**anon**, on **anon** and that’s when they had the chil- the thr- the-
the three of us there. EOS Yeah cos **anon** was a baby when we moved
to **anon**. EOS Cos it was a three bed semi and it wasn’t big enough,
so that’s when they were-**anon**, where me mum and dad live now. EOS
Used to be a big old like manor house. EOS Called **anon**, and that
was demolished. EOS And **anon** bought it all and- and built all
those houses. Erm but left all the **anon** trees round it, that’s why
it got its name. And so we moved there and I think-. EOS Yeah it’s a
history lesson as well. EOS I was six when I moved there. **anon** was
one, yeah. EOS So you won’t remember much. EOS So I- oh I remember it,
gosh. Yeah, what do you mean? EOS No, about the move I didn’t think
you’d-. EOS Oh I can remember it, yeah, oh, god yeah I can remember
it. Mm, it was only down the road. EOS That’s when you used to go
caravanning, wasn’t it? EOS I did, yes. Don’t think that’s on the
list. EOS Yeah we used to go caravanning, yeah, that- but that was
when we lived at **anon**. So er used to leave the caravan on the
drive. And my mum hated it. EOS yeah she used to dread it so we got
rid of the caravan in the end. EOS Well we sold it to me friend’s mum
and dad. EOS So erm- well you didn’t really move round very much, you
stayed in one house. And your house was interesting. EOS They moved
when I was a baby and I don’t remember that. EOS Right. But the house
you lived in and were- was brought up in. EOS Was a big terrace on
erm, the main road in- in **anon**. And you had a number of
generations of families living in the same house. EOS Do you want to
talk us through that? EOS Well there was me and my- my brother and
sisters. Mum and dad, cos me dad’s-. EOS So that’s how many, five to
start with Five children, younger EOS Seven with mum and dad. EOS oh,
seven- oh yeah, yeah. Mum and dad that’s seven people. EOS But because
there’s a fourteen year gap between myself and my brother, and then
another two years between my sister **anon** and another two years
between my sister **anon** EOS they had sort of grown up and moved
out. EOS While I was quite young. EOS Er **anon** was at university
while I was about five or six. EOS So they effectively had moved out
when I was quite young. So there was me and my younger sister
**anon**, mum and dad, my dad’s sister, Auntie **anon** and my dad and
my Auntie’s father, EOS granddad, who lived there. EOS And he was the
boss. EOS Oh he was. EOS Granddad was the boss. EOS And he was called
**anon**. EOS yeah, **anon**. And he ruled, and I know this because of
my mum. Because my mum erm also, as well as going to school with
**anon** they were quite big church goers, and Bruce’s **anon**
family, the **anon** were church goers and they used to meet up at
church and **anon** and me mum used to sing in the same choir, didn’t
they? EOS That’s right. And your Auntie **anon** I think. EOS And
Auntie **anon** er, my mum’s sister. And er- and so she knew of the
family – obviously, they knew the family well. But they knew about
this granddad who-who was like sort of very traditional values. And
ruled the house quite strictly, didn’t he? EOS And they were all very-
well they weren’t- well you had a great deal of respect for him, you
weren’t particularly- were you frightened of EOS Oh yeah, none the
worse for it, oh definitely. EOS Oh yeah he was frightened of him
then, so . EOS yeah but we all loved him to bits, and- EOS But er-
anything we wanted to do, or go anywhere, we had to ask. You know I
didn’t ask my dad, cos he’d say, ‘ask your granddad.’ EOS And also,
wasn’t your dad- he worked sh- nights. So you didn’t see your dad that
much. You probably saw more of your granddad and your EOS Yeah only- I
only saw me dad coming in from work in the morning, off his night
shift, cos he worked permanent nights for about twenty five EOS And he
came home about eight o’clock in the morning, had something to eat,
went to bed, I’d go off to school, come back, he’d be getting up and
then off to work. EOS Yeah, so really- EOS only really saw him at the
weekends. EOS yeah, so that’s probably why granddad- cos he’d be
retired then wouldn’t he, granddad? EOS And- and your grandma-. EOS I
never saw my grandma. EOS Oh did you not, EOS oh she passed away
before- oh right, okay. EOS Yeah. That was me dad’s mother. But I- I
saw a lot of me mum’s EOS Oh right. Yeah you did, yeah. EOS who lived
a few streets away. EOS she lived around- yeah, cos now that was an
interesting thing, because your mum’s mum erm- your mum went over to
bring her back EOS No, no, no she came home. EOS Am I right? Oh I’ve
got it all wrong. EOS No I don’t know how she managed it, but she
managed to get her over to England in the- probably the nineteen
sixties. EOS what are we looking at- Crikey! EOS And she was quite
elderly when she came over. EOS So didn’t speak very much English. EOS
But still managed to get to the shops when she could, while she was
mobile enough and able to-. EOS Wonder how she got here then? EOS
While she was able to get to the shops and buy a few things. EOS mm,
aye, she lived round the corner, didn’t she, In the big family EOS
Hmm, shall we get onto this- how long have we been at it? EOS oh, erm
what fun things are t- are there to do in your community? EOS Fun,
round here? EOS Well, we got the Trafford centre. EOS That’s the- the
biggest thing, because er- since the Trafford centre’s come along,
there’s lots of- it’s my-. EOS I know it’s no corner shop but- EOS I
think it’s great fun cos I like going shopping! So it’s like- if you
like your shopping, it’s a woman’s kind of er- what would you say? EOS
Well it’s my hobby, going there. EOS And er, what other things? Well
we don’t often walk into our local shopping area, but we did the
previous Saturday night, didn’t we? EOS And we thoroughly enjoyed it,
but noticed how mu- noticed all the improvements in the local town
centre, but realised how much more needed to be done. EOS It was kind
of half finished, so erm, but we’ve got sports centres, and I did used
to belong to the local gym and I’m not any more EOS And really over
the years, we have used all local facilities. Haven’t EOS Yeah we’ve
used all the sports centres, the swimming baths. EOS Used all the
sports centres and- EOS Maybe not- not public transport as much as we
should have done. EOS No. No, but we use the park, EOS we used the
park a lot when the boys were younger. EOS Yeah they played for local
football teams, local swimming club. EOS So there is plenty to do, if
you want, if you look for it EOS Oh it’s all there. It’s ideal where
we live, because it’s erm- it’s in a good area, isn’t it? For erm
accessing services really. EOS Yeah it’s- it’s very EOS Walk to most
things can’t we? EOS It’s only a few minutes from Manchester. EOS Yeah
walk into Urmston, get the train into Manchester. Cos we’re not on-
quite near the- near enough for the tram link yet. EOS Traffic’s never
too bad. EOS Apart from a few days near Christmas. EOS But generally,
getting into Manchester’s quite easy, yeah EOS Yeah. And we got some
nice local restaurants, haven’t we? EOS If you can get in. EOS yeah
well, yeah, I didn’t finish my story about the other EOS When we
walked into Urmston, thinking we could just get into a restaurant,
thinking, ‘well nobody really goes out in Urmston,’ and it was very
deserted, all the streets, but all the pubs and the restaurants were
jam-packed full EOS And we were pleasantly surprised weren’t we? EOS
Cos if we go out we don’t tend to go local, do we? Generally. EOS Not
generally, don’t think I’ve- EOS Not generally, we’ve always gone out
somewhere into town, or to people’s houses or whatever, or stay in and
entertain with- So, there EOS So what about school? EOS What about
school? EOS about your memories of school? EOS Well I’ve got really
erm, happy memories actually, of school. But erm, certainly from when
I went to **anon**, and yet I was quite shocked when I went to a
reunion, quite a number of years ago, ooh crikey, it would be probably
about seven- no maybe longer, maybe ten years ago, I went to a
reunion. And there was about sixty-odd of us all at the Urmston
cricket club, all who’d gone- EOS some of us had stayed on into sixth
form, quite a lot had left in the fifth year, cos in those days, er
late seventies early eighties, not everybody was encouraged to stay
on. EOS So quite a lot left in the fifth year. Which is year eleven.
And erm- and I was quite shocked at all those who had left, they’d
left cos they were so unhappy. EOS Yeah. They hated the teachers,
thought they were weirdos. EOS And erm, they couldn’t understand why
we’d all stayed on. And erm- and I was shocked that when they were
telling me about being unhappy, cos we were dead happy there. EOS And-
and I was quite shocked at how many were bullied. EOS I was sh- I was
absolutely shocked at that. Cos I was never once bullied. And I’m not
a bully myself, I wasn’t doing the bullying EOS They were bullied by
the teachers or the pupils? EOS Teachers and other pupils. EOS Mm, cos
it was an all girl’s school when I went there. Erm but- not that
that’s any excuse but er- I was- we came away quite upset actually,
for some of them, I couldn’t believe it. Prior to that, I went to
**anon**, and **anon**, and my memories of that school-. EOS Are that-
of that long passageway from the infants to the juniors and EOS And
it’s bizarre, because erm- couple of years ago when me younger sister
had **anon** er- we were trying to get him to sleep at night and I
said, ‘oh I’ll t-’ we were at my mum’s, who lived- me mum lives quite
close to the school, and I said, ‘oh I’ll take **anon** out in the
pram,’ so I thought ‘oh I’ll- I’m gonna go down **anon** and have a
look at me old school.’ EOS And it was- it was a real sort of funny
feeling going down there, EOS and I was looking at how it had all
changed, I couldn’t believe how different it looked. The- the actual
original building’s still there but they’ve added on and-. EOS Changed
the playground a bit and- and all me memories came flooding back. And
the first thing I remembered as I’m- as I’m approaching at the bottom
of **anon**, and going left onto the passageway, erm I just remember I
felt really big, this- I felt really tall, this big tall EOS Because
when I was last down there, I was this little tiny person, EOS and the
passageway looked so big and- and long. EOS And yet it was just a tiny
little pass-way- passageway really. EOS It wasn’t anywhere near as- as
big and long as it was when you’re little. But what I instantly
thought about when I looked at the main entrance of the junior school
was- was always the smell of sour milk EOS and bottles that had been
kicked over by the boys football. EOS And what it was, we used to have
milk delivered in glass bottles, and EOS It was like half a pint
wasn’t it? EOS Yeah small bottles of milk. And the lads were terrible
for the football and they’d kick it around and it’d eventually get
kicked at the- the milk bottles and they’d be smashed all over the
front. EOS Did you- did you drink it? EOS Milk everywhere. And it was
warm as well, when it was delivered into EOS it was warm, and we drank
it. EOS Oh I- I used to hate it. EOS See I- I think I quite liked it,
cos it’s creamy. EOS ahh, but it was warm and horrible EOS I used to
give mine away. EOS Oh no I think I er- I think I drank it. Yeah
didn’t mind it. EOS It was alright in the winter, but in the summer it
was just-. EOS But it was that smell, I could smell it the minute I
got to- to th- to the erm- the passageway where the school is, EOS I
could- I could even smell the milk EOS yeah, yeah and then I walked
round to the infants and that just seemed so tiny, that entrance. EOS
I just remember the school- I looked at the- the erm the door to the
entrance, the infant entrance- well it’s all in- sorry the younger end
and erm, I just remember when you walked through those doors, the
cloakroom was on the right and then there’s this long corridor with
the classrooms off it. EOS And the hall on the left. And erm I just
kept thinking about all the teachers and erm- there was a teacher
there apparently, I think she must’ve been the reception teacher,
called **anon** who apparently, me mum said used to absolutely adore
me. EOS I had this big round chubby face that was always red EOS and I
used to come back with lipstick all over my face where she’d been
kissing me, apparently. EOS Can you believe that? EOS Oh they’d never
get away with that now would they? EOS No they wouldn’t, they
wouldn’t. And erm, I couldn’t say **anon** and I used to call her Mi-
**anon**. EOS Cos you knew which side your bread was buttered didn’t
you? EOS . So erm, that was my r- early recollections of erm the
infants and juniors. What about yours? EOS Well my school was called
**anon**. EOS Which is the school your- your mum went to, and your
Auntie **anon**. EOS Er, it was church of England erm, juniors and
infant school. EOS But prior to me going, it was also a secondary
school. EOS For- for kids up to the age of fourteen I think, in those
days. EOS Er but that stopped when my secondary school, which was
**anon** opened EOS Oh that’s when I was born. EOS That’s when you
were born. EOS And I w- I started there in nineteen sixty seven, I
think. EOS Yeah, and it’s now being demolished. EOS because it’s built
on the edge of Barton Moss, EOS which is like boggy and peaty. EOS And
it was sinking EOS gonna say it’s bloody sinking! . Yeah, betit is.
EOS And it was built in the early sixties and not very well built. EOS
And a lot of the erm the walls had been kicked in at times EOS it was
okay when I was there, but apparently years later it was really tatty,
so it’s being demolished and it’s now **anon**. Very er- EOS But the
estate it’s on has got a lot rougher since- EOS since I was there. EOS
And it’s so bad buses won’t go on the estate at night now. EOS And at
one time it was a really nice-. EOS Sort of showpiece council estate.
EOS It’s where the cemetery is, have you ever been to the cemetery at
the end of the-? EOS **anon**, at the end of the motorway there, the
erm- EOS yeah, if you’re- you’re gonna be cremated basically you go-.
EOS Well actually no, burials as well aren’t there? EOS yeah, but-
yeah but I was quite happy there but it wasn’t a very academic school,
and in the old system of CSEs, it’s before GCSEs. EOS We all did the
CSE course EOS and if they thought you were good enough, you did a
little bit of extra work to get you through the O-level. EOS But it
was only really designed to scrape through EOS oh, right, okay EOS
Which I found out when I came to do A-levels and it was, ‘whoah!’ EOS
Bit of a big leap from that to A-level, mm EOS Yeah, massive leap cos
I’d only really done CSE. EOS he hadn’t done GCSE standard. EOS So
yeah then it’d be too much, wouldn’t it? EOS So yeah then A-levels
were a big- big jump. EOS Yeah, so that was the big difference
between- say the grammar schools now and -. EOS Cos there is now isn’t
there even? EOS Cos really they help you so much more I think with
your GCSEs EOS and then A-levels you’re not as- you don’t there’s a
big step up EOS yeah and with the eleven plus they do round here, EOS
at least if you go to **anon**, you’re still doing the same course.
EOS you’re still- Yeah and you’re still gonna do well as well aren’t
you? EOS As the people at the grammar, so if you apply yourself, EOS
and stay clear of the ones who don’t want to work, EOS there’s no
reason why you shouldn’t do well. EOS You can do well can’t you? EOS
That wasn’t encouraged then. EOS At secondary school. EOS No, not at
all really. And the junior school I went to erm, didn’t do any
practice papers for the eleven plus, EOS which I know they don’t do
now, but erm-. EOS Parents are aware of practice papers and things.
EOS Oh God yeah, yeah mm. EOS But in those days, some schools did
practice papers and- EOS and half the class would pass. EOS So when
you saw your eleven plus paper, that’d be the first time you’d ever
seen one. EOS And like, ‘what? What’s that?’ EOS I mean, it doesn’t
matter how clever you are, you can’t do it can you, unless you
practice it. EOS Well one person passed. EOS Let me stick this light-
oh sorry but I can’t move! EOS yeah, you can EOS Sorry, it’s alright I
was just gonna put the light on. EOS One person passed in my class. No
right channel EOS And she’s now a top barrister in London. EOS So
that’s how clever you had to be. Right channel resumes) EOS her
younger sister was in-. EOS **anon** was she in the year above me, I
think at **anon**. She went to EOS I think she went to do mechanical
engineering. Oh thanks, yeah. EOS But their parents owned-. EOS
They’re really clever girls anyway I think, aren’t they? EOS Yeah
their parents owned **anon** at the time. EOS Cos they sold parker
pens. EOS Oh did they live in Eccles then, and come on the coach down
to the EOS Er they probably came on the bus. EOS There used to be the
number twenty two. cos they lived near **anon**. And the bus used to
go from **anon**. EOS Oh yes, right. EOS I think it still does EOS So-
so don’t they have a special bus for them- coach for them from
Salford, don’t they? EOS Yeah they do now. EOS Cos I remember that
starting. EOS But there w- there was a lot- it was fifty-fifty, those
who went to EOS it was fifty-fifty, if you went to **anon** or
**anon**. EOS Yeah. Ah yeah right, okay. EOS But it always annoyed me
because this **anon**, it was always me or her who were top. EOS Yeah.
And then-. EOS Do you think she did practice papers then? EOS Yeah
that was what I was saying, her mum and dad had this posh paper shop
and they- they probably knew about practice papers and things. EOS Oh,
they would have known about- how annoying. EOS And they never told
anybody else. EOS the good old days, yeah. EOS Yeah, cos it seems a
bit of a coincidence that she was the only one EOS yeah, because me,
her and three other girls skipped a class between the infants and the
juniors, we didn’t go in to what is now year EOS oh yeah, yeah. EOS We
went into year four. EOS Why would they do that, that’s silly? EOS
They used to- used to- they used to do daft things like that, like,
‘oh you’re clever enough to go into year four, you don’t need to- you
EOS so you missed a whole year? EOS Yeah, when you learn your tables
and things like that. EOS Oh that’s ludicrous! EOS But that’s what
they used to do. EOS Mm, it is terrible that. EOS And even though we
weren’t at the bottom of that class-. EOS We were somewhere near the
top, but not at the top. EOS mm, what a shame. EOS And it was weird,
you know, splitting us up from all our friends, EOS yeah, that is
weird EOS and then you make new friends and-. and, that’s how I got to
EOS Who I used to go- I used to go to the match with. EOS Oh right was
in the year above? EOS Cos he was in that year above, yeah. EOS Oh
right. You see you’ve always had friends that have been older than
you, haven’t you? EOS Yeah, and I think it’s because of that. EOS I’ve
noticed that, you know, even now I’m thinking of **anon** and erm-
actually **anon** the same age, isn’t he? EOS Erm those other blokes,
I mean a lot of them have moved away now, but when I first met you,
EOS a lot of your friends were older than you and I- ‘oh I used to go
to school with him but he was in the year above, or the year above
that.’ EOS Yeah well it probably started off-. EOS So that- I wonder
if that’s why? EOS knowing **anon** and a few others. Then we went to
the same secondary school so I- I was back in my proper year. EOS But
your friends were in the year above, EOS A lot of me friends were in
the year above, EOS yeah, it’s a shame isn’t it EOS but I was still
friends with- I was still friends with kids in my year. So I was
friends with both. And then I go to know others. EOS In the year
above, like **anon**. EOS People like that. And then h- with the other
people, I think you’re probably thinking of **anon** and people like
that. EOS Oh it’s **anon** yes, yeah. EOS Who’s like three years older
than me. EOS He’s quite a bit isn’t he, yeah. EOS But all that came
about through volleyball. EOS Which we used to play at our school, EOS
You did, yeah. EOS because- cos our maths teacher played for England,
EOS at volleyball, so we were the only school who could play it
properly. EOS Us and **anon** and **anon** and we used to play them.
So that’s how I got to know people like **anon**, **anon** who went to
**anon**. EOS Oh gosh, yeah, mm EOS And **anon** who went to **anon**.
EOS Mm, oh they were clever lads weren’t they? EOS And when we all-
when we all left school we all got a team together. EOS So we were
quite a different you know erm, wide ranging age group. EOS And pretty
much kept in touch up until the last few years, when we’ve got married
and had kids and-. EOS I know, and also we- we’ve lost a lot of
friends through divorce, cos of- you know people like **anon** split
up hasn’t he? EOS Quite a lot of them have er- well they’ve moved
abroad, I mean **anon** and **anon** who we’re really friendly with,
and they went to live in Canada, I remember feeling dead upset when
they went away and it’s really hard to keep in touch with people. EOS
When they move away as well, and then obviously if they split up it
sort of becomes awkward then EOS because you don’t know EOS which one
to choose EOS which one to choose. EOS Yeah if there’d been things
like facebook you know like fifteen years EOS Yeah probably would’ve
stayed in touch with them better really. EOS It would’ve been a lot
easier. EOS Yeah. You remember to go on it and- EOS Yeah and mobile
phones, and texting. EOS Cos it used to be having to rely on letters
didn’t it, and- EOS An expensive phone call, if they were abroad. EOS
Yeah that’s right. Yeah, I mean it’d be nice to go to Canada and see
**anon** and **anon** wouldn’t it? EOS Although I don’t really fancy
Canada. I mean, I know we did Niagara falls last year, that was only
touching into it a bit, but, EOS I don’t know it doesn’t really-
there’s nothing about Canada that really appeals to me to go to, like-
EOS I like America where you’ve got- seem to have so much there to
offer you. So- it’s got everything hasn’t it? EOS Well I think where
they are in Vancouver, it’s on the edge of the EOS Well that’s it,
it’s probably my ignorance really. EOS And it’s supposed to be really,
really nice. EOS I know it’s supposed to be really clean. Cos I know
when **anon** and **anon** have been over- **anon** been over more so
than **anon** EOS but he always says when he- cos he’ll always- cos
his parents live on EOS so if he’s home he’ll always come and see us
EOS and erm- cos you remember he knocked at the door and **anon**
didn’t know who he was? EOS So **anon** had this funny conversation
with him and he said, ‘oh come and wait for them, oh, wait in for
them,’ cos we were out. EOS It’s- It’s **anon** uncle, actually. EOS
It’s **anon** uncle. EOS Yeah now there’s a story. EOS And erm
**anon**- **anon**- **anon** didn’t sort of- ‘well who are you, I
don’t really want to let you in my house,’ EOS he’s, ‘oh just wait for
them,’ yeah. EOS So- yeah so- so but when erm, **anon** was last round
here a few years back, she- she said, ‘I can’t believe how dirty
Manchester is.’ EOS They’d been out in the city centre and she just
said, ‘there’s just rubbish everywhere, it’s just filthy.’ EOS An- and
actually funnily enough, last night when I went to take- yesterday
when I went to take that dvd back to blockbuster, it’s absolutely
filthy round that area where blockbuster is, the back of macdonalds,
where people have just thrown all the fast food sh- EOS It’s all the
macdonald’s, kfc isn’t it? Pizza hut. EOS They’re just- there’s bins
there and the people just throw it, now you- I must admit even in A-
where we’ve been in America, you wouldn’t EOS It’s for being back-
back- back in New York, but- EOS But it’s lazy people who dri- go to
the drive through isn’t it, and they just eat their food. EOS And they
just chuck it everywhere. EOS And they’re too lazy to get out aren’t
they? EOS And I- and I can’t understand why whole families eat in the
car, when they can go inside. EOS No, I’m- yeah. EOS I know and they
just- they just chuck things out and but sort of o- like **anon** said
in Canada, there’s just people constantly clearing rubbish up all the
time. EOS Well it’s- it’s like that at Disneyland isn’t it? EOS
everywhere scooping litter up. EOS and there’ll be parts of Canada and
America that are dirty but she did say that when she- when they moved
out there they couldn’t get over what- how clean EOS everything
looked. And spick and span, and- EOS And- and- and when she comes back
she notices how dirty Manchester seems to be. EOS Well I think
Canada’s got a smaller population than Britain. EOS It’s more spread
out as well. EOS yeah, and it’s- EOS I think erm-. EOS I think it’s
the second largest country in the world, isn’t it? EOS We’re more
highly- densely populated, mm. Yeah. EOS So you obviously had a lot of
friends didn’t you, when you were EOS Yeah we had a lot because I’m
one of four girls and we used to share EOS cos we were all fairly
close, you do that with sisters. EOS So- and it- it’s interesting cos
even erm- when I went to me elder sister’s fiftieth on Friday, I was
telling them at work today, they were saying, ‘how did you get on?’
and I was saying, ‘oh it was really fun,’ you know, and some of them,
the fifty- fifty somethings that were there, you see I’ve known them
for donkey’s years really, like EOS Cos **anon** used to share a flat
with **anon** and- and erm-. EOS I just remember erm- you know, I used
to go out with her as well, we- so we, you know, we’d share friends.
EOS And erm, and like **anon** my best friend now, who’s really good
friends with **anon** isn’t she? EOS She- you know we’ve always been
like that. Cos we- we- although my sisters are like me- me sisters are
like my friends as well. EOS And erm so we sort of erm- we know about
each other’s friends as well. And erm, and ask about them. And er,
yeah. EOS Yeah. Well this question here’s just reminded me of
something. EOS Did you ever get into trouble for something at school,
were you ever blamed for something that wasn’t your fault? Well I was
blamed for EOS It was at lunchtime, and then you c- you could go home
for your lunch if you wanted, EOS or you could stay at school and I
went through periods of doing both. EOS So it was o- on one of my
supposed-to-be going home for lunch EOS When we used to go to the
chippy. We went to the chippy and just for something to do we walked
round the estate got onto the school fields in the far corner. There
was a gate there, it wasn’t a problem, walked across the school
fields, back to school and the headmaster was wait- waiting for us.
And it was, ‘you boys! You’ve all been smoking!’ EOS ‘I’m telling you,
you ha- you have even if you haven’t.’ EOS ‘No we’re not!’, ‘Yep
you’ve all been smoking, there’s no other reason to be on the fields
at lunchtime.’ EOS So we all got the slipper. EOS Cos he was a real
bully. EOS So when my dad found out-. EOS Was that on a bare bottom as
well? EOS No you kept your trousers on! EOS Oh right, that’s alright
then! EOS It’s not ‘Tom Brown’s schooldays’ or whatever EOS Well we’re
going back a number of years, you know EOS Yeah the nineteen sixties,
not the eighteen sixties! EOS So er- my dad went bananas. EOS Rang the
school up and-. EOS Not granddad **anon**? EOS No I think my granddad
might have died by then. EOS But my dad rang up and said, ‘if- if the-
if our Bruce **anon** wants to smoke, he can smoke, he’s got my
permission.’ EOS Yeah. Cos me dad was heavy smoker and it- it wasn’t
a. EOS his Dad was EOS , ‘oh well, that’s alright, ah, thanks, I’ve
got the option EOS But you’ve never smoked, have you? EOS No, tried a
few but didn’t like them. EOS didn’t like it EOS No, thank goodness,
yeah. EOS Actually that- it’s made me think of something, about
**anon**. We used to get the ruler, the girls got the ruler and the
lads got the cane EOS from **anon**. Who was the headt- well he was
deputy head when I was there and then when I left I believe he became
the head for- for a long, long time. And erm, my elder sister **anon**
particularly didn’t get on with him, he used to pick a lot on **anon**
for some reason. And I remember at one parent’s evening erm-. EOS Me-
me dad- well they’d gone to parent’s evening, they’d been to som- some
problem between this teacher- I think actually- sorry at the time he
was- I don’t think he was even deputy head, this **anon** he might’ve
just been- just a general teacher. And there’d been some incident with
me sister, I can’t even remember what it was but I just- I just
remember erm me mum telling me that at parent’s evening me dad just
threw a wobbler and got him up against this- EOS teacher up against
the wall, and was like just about to thump him one. And, ‘leave my
daughter alone, you know I’m sick of you picking EOS Cos I think he
really did, he just- you know when some teachers just don’t like
certain people he just didn’t like our **anon**. EOS And erm and he-
in fact he- he- I think he’s died recently he’s been- in fact he has,
because-. EOS It was **anon** mentioned it. EOS Yeah **anon** told me.
Who’s a builder, you know **anon** and erm, **anon** EOS Oh okay yeah.
EOS **anon** was in our **anon** class at- at junior school and- and
EOS again rec- cos when he was doing the building work on our house,
we were having conversations and I found out erm it was **anon**- he
was in **anon** class and I said, ‘ooh did you ever come across
**anon**?’ and he went, ‘**anon**! Oh God he was awful I hated him.’
Apparently he used to have- this is awful what they used to do,
teachers in them days. Erm- he didn’t just cane **anon** cos I think
**anon** was quite naughty. EOS Erm he used to make **anon** sit at
his desk- at the teacher’s desk and **anon** would have to do all his
work there. And if he dare lift his head up, he apparently had a erm-
erm what do you call it? Ping Pong bat with a face drawn on it- EOS
this is the teacher, and he’d crack him over the head with it every
time he lifted his head up. EOS That was **anon**. EOS And then I
remember erm bumping into **anon** and he told me, ‘you’re never gonna
believe it, that B-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh’ EOS ‘has died now.’ EOS And it
was in the paper, but he lived ‘til he was- I think in his EOS And he
lived I think off **anon** in Flixton and we used to see him going up
and down the road and our **anon** erm, went to **anon**. And she set
off obviously me mum and dad’s in **anon** and she had to- she’d have
to pass him every day and she used to think, ‘oh I hate you!’ you
know, after she’d left, and- EOS Cos he used to pr- practically bully
her really. And erm absolutely hated him. I had no trouble with him he
was alright with me and I think the other two he was alright with,
**anon** and **anon** don’t think they had any trouble. EOS Yeah you’d
have thought he might have had something against you as well, being
**anon** sister. EOS Yeah, no, well I think after this incident with
me dad about to batt- EOS He- he was- he- he wouldn’t have any- we
were fine after that. Mm, I was gonna talk about something else then
but er- I forgot- ooh so I’m just coming onto like corporal punishment
really because what we- what we did- we- you know you have a spelling
test oh well we still had spelling tests in them days. EOS And then
say it was out of ten you know, depending on how many you got wrong,
erm you’d have to line up at **anon** desk. EOS And you would get
thrashed basically, EOS so if you got five out of ten, you got five
lashes of the cane, and five- that was the lads, and the girls would
get the ruler on the back of their hands five times, or dependent on
how many spellings you got EOS And that was a regular thing, wasn’t
it? EOS So hence, your spelling’s quite good! EOS That’s why I’ve got-
really have good spelling actually, cos it was the thought of getting
the ruler. But I can only remember erm, a black girl who was in my
class called **anon** I’ll never forget her. And erm her brother was
in I think the year below or couple of years below. And they- both her
and her brother were adopted, and she had white parents. And again,
they lived actually on **anon**. And she was absolutely terrified of
**anon** and I always remember one day she just- you know I think she
just freaked out if she ever got the- the ruler. EOS And she cheated
in this spelling test and she- she’d actually written the spellings on
her desk. EOS Cos we had wooden desks in those days EOS and you used a
fountain pen. EOS And er anyway she’d- she’d obviously done
surprisingly very well in EOS and he was obviously suspicious, EOS so
we all went out to play and then obviously he was snooping round and
he saw these spellings written on her desk. EOS Etched into the er- .
EOS Yeah. Oh I’ll never forget it, it was awful, and he made her scrub
it with bleach and everything and-. EOS Oh it was just awful. Yeah,
you lived in fear really you know. EOS Mostly you did. But then I went
to the grammar school and I was quite- you know, I had quite a happ-
happy time there really. EOS I mean I don’t think I particularly had
an unhappy time- I think I had a very happy time in the infants and I
think going into juniors was fine until we had this particular
teacher. EOS I think generally it was him. EOS Yeah that’s the trouble
isn’t it at infants and juniors, EOS you’re just stuck with the same
teacher for a year. EOS Yeah, yeah. I think I-. EOS And they’re stuck
with you if- if they feel the same, EOS I know I don’t know how he
ever got the deputy- well he was deputy head when I was there and then
he got the headship after I left. They were probably frightened to not
give it him. EOS To be honest. Mm, still see him now, he was one of
those blokes, sort of balding with a bit of hair either side, like a
bit of a mad EOS Always had a tweed jacket on. EOS Oh yes they always
had a tweed jacket. EOS Yeah with patches here. EOS A bit portly. EOS
Portly, absolutely short and portly. And he just looked like that from
the minute he started there from- from- and I presume from when he
left. He just never looked any different. EOS He sounds just like
**anon** who we had at **anon**. EOS Who your Auntie **anon**
remembers, he was er- our equivalent. EOS He had a choice of slipper,
EOS it was pu- it was pumps, slippers, there was a few EOS One with
nails sticking out just so it had a bit of . EOS Yeah he used to run
the tuckshop, and it was behind him, in his little room behind him and
he was- he was supposed to be teaching and he was just tucking in to
Jammy Dodgers and things like that, yeah. EOS Well he was- but then he
left and went to- after I left, he went to **anon** school in Swinton.
EOS Oh really, **anon**? EOS No **anon** Junior school. EOS Oh a
junior, right. EOS Was that a private school? EOS but I think he’s
lived round here somewhere, apparently. EOS Yeah don’t know if he’s
still alive, he must be well into his eighties or nineties now. EOS
But yeah. Definitely old school. EOS yeah, mm, I’m just looking here
about having to help out around the house, erm this is funny. In fact
I was telling them, they must think I’m a bit of a nutter at school-
EOS at work sorry, cos I- I dunno how we got onto this conversation,
this was last week and we were talking about sisters and things and
getting on with families and stuff and I said ‘I can remember when
erm, when the four of us- me and my three sisters, were all living at
home, in- on **anon**. EOS And erm I think the younger two are a bit
too young at the time t- to have to help with chores so it was me and
**anon** and we used to have to erm, wash- we didn’t have dishwashers
so we used to have to wash and dry and put away. Now the person who
washed up, EOS washed up and that was it you could get out of the
kitchen quick but the poor person who had to dry also had to put away.
EOS And guess who always ended up drying and putting away cos she was
a bit younger than the older bossy sister. EOS Wouldn’t be you, would
it? EOS yeah, it was me and I can just remember just getting so fed up
she’d rush into the kitchen start washing up and I’d get in, I
thought, ‘here I am again, I’m having to dry.’ And then she’d you
know, hurry up do it much- obviously quicker cos it takes longer to-
to dry and then put away. She’d rush out and carry on doing what she
was doing, watching telly or whatever. And I just remember one day she
was washing up and I’m drying the knives and I got a knife to her EOS
But you know in a sort of friendly kind of way. . EOS There is- there
is no friendly kind of way. EOS And I was just getting it and say-
getting- cos we used to have steak knives as well so actually it was
quite sharp actually, EOS it was a very sharp steak knife. EOS Bit
posh that! EOS With er- a brown wooden handle, erm cos the reason why
I remember that is when you were washing up you weren’t allowed to put
the handles in the water. Because they were wooden. EOS Because they
were wood. EOS Yeah and you used to have to hold them like that and-
and clean the- the stainless steel edging. So, I just remember getting
it and saying, ‘I’m fed up of having to dry and put away I’m fed up,
you’ve got to let me wash them all’ EOS ‘wash the pots for a change!
Or I’m gonna tell mum and dad,’ like EOS I think it did work, I seem
to think having the knife there perhaps EOS did help a bit. EOS Better
be careful hadn’t I? EOS Yeah you just keep loading the do- dishwasher
up Bruce **anon** you’re EOS Oh so that’s why we got one is it?