 yeah cos I was going to say one of the other bits of the interview is
just about, kind of what you do for a living and stuff so EOS well not
a lot at the moment EOS right that is okay so just feel free to- chat
away when you- er the crazy thing is, is if you weren't here we'd be
chatting away like anything it's yeah EOS yeah just yeah just normally
yeah EOS well tell us about erm where you live, I mean you can- you
can talk to me kind of thing while I’m doing it EOS you don't- but I’m
not allowed to start you know speak back to you kind of thing but
tell- you know tell us about that first if you want, well where I
live’s in the er- the regeneration area, because they’re ripping
Salford apart at the moment so erm by two-thousand eleven where I live
will be gone EOS er which is a- a multi-story block which is er w- I
should think will be all the better for it EOS you know it will be
completely gone EOS yeah although some of them they’re doing up now
EOS aren't they them ones that EOS yeah it's to save money EOS yeah
advertising them as absolutely super-duper gorgeous apartments aren't
they EOS yeah, well it’s just counc- it's just like right behind
Salford precinct EOS yeah council slums EOS revamped council slum EOS
yeah, because I’ve just moved like back into like sort of ‘Salford’
Salford, cos I was in **anon** erm, and then before that I was- I was
in **anon** with me mum so probably not far from where you are near
**anon**, erm and before that I used to live, like down at the bottom,
didn’t I? in like the proper old terraces, like I had one of them, erm
and we sort of did all that up and then, just relationship came to an
end and I moved back with me mum but did a lot of work on that house
really EOS yeah I did EOS you did yeah , I was the painter EOS and
they did all the hard labour EOS or rather you did EOS very hard
labour EOS yeah, this one’s getting there now isn't it- your school’s
gone now thought hasn’t it, that- cos your school used to be there EOS
that went ages ago that’s a block of flats now yeah EOS yeah they did
erm- when I was a kid there was a group called the Spinners, and er
there’s a song called Dirty Old Town that’s about EOS and they
actually sang it and got filmed on the bridge that was over the road
when we were at school EOS cos you used to go over the bridge to the
playground or something EOS yeah, yeah the school was on one side and
the playground was on the other and there was a bridge over the road
EOS yeah and they- they actually recorded it and did a video on the
‘Dirty Old Town’, you’ll want to look that up if you’re thinking about
Salford that song EOS it’s about all the gas works and all that, that
like it was when I was a kid EOS god so what is that- see and I was
born at **anon** hospital you was born at home though, weren’t you?
yeah, yeah **anon** in the old **anon** yeah EOS put in a drawer and
shoved under the table EOS no it’s completely- I mean it- it’s
absolutely completely different now I mean, it- it’s like when you and
**anon** were little wasn't so very different but I think computers
have made a huge difference to the kids EOS I mean cos **anon** now at
thirteen I mean EOS yeah, it’s just that- that’s me half brother, it’s
just Xbox, Xbox, Xbox twenty-four seven EOS yeah that’s really so-
that’s all- everything else is just boring isn't it you know EOS and
er he is- he’s sheltered as well because he’s- he’s the only child
with his mum EOS mm and er EOS and they live down in **anon** don't
they EOS cos she moved for work so, and his nana when he comes staying
up here, she only ever had two EOS she’s scared of anything that a boy
would do isn't she- she can EOS yeah boys do yeah EOS ‘oh you can't do
that’ EOS ‘come and dress you doll in front of the Xbox’ EOS yeah, I
think that’s why she had that rag-doll sat on the sofa EOS in the hope
that he’d get into that EOS yeah, yeah and then I go up with a gun EOS
er it is- even I notice it now though like from when I was little like
just speaking to **anon** now he’s getting to like thirteen it’s EOS
it is difficult to talk to kids now isn't it? it’s- unless you know
about computers and you’re- you’re into like the games and everything
it’s like, my boyfriend **anon** he’s like into computers but he’s
Playstation three, and me brother’s Xbox and it’s like, you know
they’re totally different things both thinks one’s better than the
other and EOS it’s just- it’s crazy isn't it, they just like- you’ll
sit there and it’s like- just like playing like with a console isn't
it just thumbs and staring at the TV and EOS well I- I try- I try to
introduce him to things that EOS nothing else- they could be EOS you
do outside the house the kind of things I did when I was a kid EOS you
know like, catapults you know EOS and then the air rifle and what have
you, you know and- and just try- just trying to get him outside the
house is a struggle because it’s- it’s like- it was like when we went
to that scooter do last week, wasn't it? we were there I mean the
vintage scooters and- and it was really good cos these are like me
cousin runs this **anon** scooter club EOS and we were thinking ‘oh
proper little lads thing’ you know, ‘bikes, he’ll love it’ or EOS what
thirteen year old lad isn't going to want to sit on a motorbike you
know but, no ‘I’m bored, can I go’ EOS he was like getting up and
going for like crisps or a coke or EOS just to get up and do something
like walking past all these lovely EOS yeah, blinkered completely yeah
EOS to the burger van at the end yeah mind you he was- he was getting
a bit better towards the end weren't he but EOS yeah only when I told
him that the boredom bit won’t work today that EOS it’s a nice day
we’re having a- a, you know just- just relax you know and having a
drink and sitting on the grass and you know enjoying the EOS yeah, mm,
yeah it is but- so sit down and enjoy it EOS that’s what it is, it’s
like when- when we were little we used to play outside for hours EOS
well, you had a den EOS and like it’d be dark, yeah and we had a den
but me mum would be shouting us in, you know to come in but now you
can't kick them out EOS yeah, well we li- we lived- it was right in
**anon** wasn't it and EOS and all the grass verge over the side where
the bushes were and you and **anon** were only toddlers and you had a
den in there with the other kids and- yeah, in the trees yeah EOS
yeah, right in front of the EOS the dual carriage way EOS yeah, it’s
like that- that motorbike I got for **anon** that time and EOS yeah
like that quad bike thing EOS yeah well it wasn't it was a- it was a-
what’s it- wasn't it- it was a child's bike- a dirt bike for when he
was six years old EOS and er he kept jumping off in it and letting it
go on its own EOS he used to run off around the field EOS ‘dad, I’m
scared’ EOS and let the bike go EOS remember them water pistols EOS it
had like a big tank on his strapped to his back yeah EOS yeah, and-
Super Soakers he had like yeah, two tanks on his back and he was that
little the weight of the water used to pull him over EOS I was on the
doorstep and the- the- the whatsit the er bus stop was on the other
side and all the people waiting at the bus stop EOS and we were able
to fire it and we were able to soak them from our doorstep and they
did not know where it was coming from, yeah, yeah EOS yeah you could
catch them from behind yeah, through the trees and over the top EOS
used to go far that EOS great example as a father EOS yeah yeah ‘move
it a bit to the left son, bit to the left’ EOS yeah, yeah ‘g- just-
just get the old lady there with the bag’ EOS and then he used to- he
was- he was a little terror I mean I was EOS you were- you were bloody
worse but EOS but- but he w- well like no cos everyone’s always like
‘oh, you were terrible, you were terrible’, **anon** let himself out
onto the flat roof and stuff didn't he EOS yeah he- he- he was on the
roof getting his toys back in EOS he was a bit more dangerous EOS
well, he’s a boy EOS that- that’s what boys are like isn't it EOS mine
was all centred around jealousy EOS yeah, right, like pushing him down
the stairs in EOS in- in his little- what was it called that little
EOS oh was it a ty- tyke- little car was it EOS the little car- the
red car with the yellow roof EOS yeah he had one of them I still
maintain he asked me to push him EOS he probably did but you still
pushed him gr- you know happily EOS yeah and he land- he landed he
landed at the bottom like upside-down giggling EOS but, oh yeah and
then he got into the wrestling didn't he EOS who was I was telling? I
think it was **anon** last week I was telling him, you know when he
went and he had- we were weren't we when he said he had like a Hulk
Hogan bandana EOS yeah had the- the big s- sponge hand yeah EOS like,
hit- Brett the Hitman's glasses EOS and the big sponge hand wasn't it
yeah EOS the big sponge hand, and he had some of the Ultimate Warriors
as well EOS oh I don’t know EOS he used- and when we used to go to
Camelot he used to always have the EOS face paint put on EOS you used
to always have to tell him what it was but, yeah and he got that big
sponge finger and then we had an argument and I broke the finger off
it so EOS which he still does not forgive you for and he’s twenty-one
EOS no, yeah, yeah he still mentions it yeah EOS oh- oh, yeah, now
he’s into his cars it’s a shame he didn’t come to that scooter thing
EOS he would have enjoyed that EOS yeah, yeah he’s at- he’s at erm
Center Parcs isn’t he, this weekend with his mates yeah EOS I think-
yeah, we’ll have to find a car one though cos **anon**- I think
**anon** was saying he’d have been more interested in the cars, well
you- you don’t know do you EOS I mean I- you see a car with him and
you say ‘do you- do you- do you like that?’, ‘it’s alright’ EOS you
know, I- I don’t know whether it’s just that- that thirteen year old
grunting stage that he’s at you know that- cos he was, cos we were
like when we went to the shop beforehand and he said ‘do you want
anything’ he’s like, ‘oh yeah, I’ll have a can of Doctor Pepper’ and I
thought, ‘well, we’re going to get there in a minute and have a drink
anyway but’ so he went in and then he was sat there like dead quiet in
the front and me and **anon** were talking in the back and I thought,
‘better say something’ like you know, so I just said to him ‘so what
have you been up to this week **anon**?’, ‘XBox mainly’ EOS I was like
‘mm, okay’ , ‘any good games?’ EOS yeah Guitar Hero EOS yeah oh god I
know what ch- that was hard EOS yeah well I- I can't see the point of
it EOS oh no I d- cos that’s what **anon** said to him he said ‘is
there like a free mode, you know where you could like sort of do your
own track?’ and he said ‘no’ so EOS yeah, well he has- he has a guitar
at home and I don’t know, and apparently I mean I’ve- I’ve heard him
once but, he’s er, not too happy about letting me know about it that
he- he plays the keyboard as well but he doesn’t read music, he just
picks it up by ear EOS and he just makes stuff up EOS yeah, well
that’s good EOS erm but I can’t see the point of this- this Guitar
Hero if you can’t actually make a tune yourself EOS you might as well
just spend that time learning to play the guitar EOS yeah, that’s it
yeah, cos it’s just- you know instead of playing somebody else's
tracks by pushing buttons EOS yeah and that- well that’s what **anon**
was saying as well cos he said you’re not really learning the song,
are you, you’re not- you-re not learning anything EOS even though you
are playing along to that song EOS yeah you’re just learning a
sequence EOS but the sequence does not relate to a real guitar so it’s
not EOS it’s pointless it’s- yeah, it’s like the- you can get like the
drums with it can't you, they have like the headset so you can sing
along to it as well can you imagine that you have to ac- I’ve watched
like **anon** and her- her boyfriend and his mate do it, and you have
to like it- it records your notes so you have to like get- hit the
high note if you don’t you like fail the challenge and- I bet it
sounds awful, I bet it’s worse than karaoke EOS oh no, he’s not a good
singer his mate, her boyfriend won’t even try he just plays the guitar
EOS yeah, at least karaoke’s acceptable because you’re mainly drunk
EOS you know so that’s EOS yeah that’s true EOS that’s alright, you
know but when you’re sober and you hear EOS oh I- I don’t know EOS
screeching at the top of their voice you know I- yeah, well there was
a couple when we went to Spain there was a few EOS karaoke singers
weren't they, that weren’t drunk that get up EOS oh yeah, yeah EOS and
do the same song every night EOS there was that old guy that used to
sing that song, that- oh god I can’t remember what it was now EOS oh I
know, and that- that EOS ‘Don't Close Your Eyes’ or something like
that EOS oh, all I remember is that one that kept getting all bloody
Elvis songs and thought he was fantastic and he was terrible EOS he
didn’t even drink but he had a list of Elvis songs that he wanted EOS
ah never seen anything like that EOS and then what was the ones that
they always used to sing, he used to sing the lad that owned the bar
you know to warm everyone up EOS I don’t know, I can’t remember no EOS
I can’t remember what it was now EOS I’m getting old you know, I’m
getting senile and EOS I’m losing it, me memory goes EOS yeah s- g- I
got dragged up I hate karaoke I don’t mind laughing at everyone else,
but I hate doing it and you made me get up EOS hey you made me get up
and you bloody filmed it EOS now there’s nothing- I don’t mind making
a fool of myself but what I hate about mobile- mobile phones is that
now you can make a fool of yourself and you have to watch it tomorrow
EOS and the whole world can see it, yeah the whole world can see it on
EOS you know I mean when- when I was younger you made a fool of
yourself when you got drunk, and you just walked sheepishly into the
room the next day and you know and- and hoped that nobody was going to
say anything now you walk in EOS no one remembered EOS ‘look at you,
you prat’ EOS yeah but I didn’t film it though, I’ve not got it, it
was- oh yeah I did have it EOS but I think I lost it on the computer
EOS wasn’t it that lad- didn’t that lad film it? yeah that Irish lad
yeah EOS cos that- that’s I had to get up and sing the Greece Megamix
with this lad I’d never met EOS we’d like literally- he’d walked into
the bar and I think his granddad had a place over there or something,
and he just sat down cos we were on the table nearest the door EOS no
he- he actually he came in and he sang that song didn't he, he came in
and he sang that song and I- I was at the bar and I was talking to him
when he came over EOS and I says ‘when I used to live out here’ EOS I
said ‘they had a- they had a term, for your kind of singing’ EOS I
said ‘it’s not shite, it’s worse than shite’ EOS and he’s looked at me
and then he came over and bought us a EOS yeah, yeah and then he was
sat with us weren't he for the night and then we had to get up in the
end and sing with him EOS and what was the other one we did, ‘Midnight
Train to Georgia’ was it? Oh no ‘Leaving on a Jet Plane’ EOS yeah
‘Leaving on a Jet Plane’ EOS cos it- weren't it like a couple of days
before we were going home EOS or something and we had to get up and
sing this song and, I- like it was only me and me dad that knew it and
he didn’t know and he was just like filling little bits in you know in
the back he’d be like EOS like in the back as we were singing when he
didn’t even know the words , it’s quite funny but EOS but we- it was
really late on when we got up though wasn't it EOS cos when you first
get in there it was hammered, like it was absolutely packed weren't it
EOS yeah but then by half past ten all the pensioners have gone up
haven't they went EOS one rum and black and you know then mm EOS and
when- the people that really hate the karaoke all get up and leave as
that starts yeah EOS and then you just get left there with like the
people that like the karaoke and the really die-hard drinkers like EOS
but no I- I that was good I enjoyed that holiday EOS I remember the
first holiday we took you on, God you were a nightmare EOS was that
Majorca? no it was Menorca, and you were just- cos we went on a- we
went on a last minute deal because you would have been- I took because
I never used to take me holiday well in- when I used to take me
holidays from work I used to always drive your mum crazy because I
used to say er, ‘oh, we won’t go away this week cos we’re- this year’
because we were doing the house up, and EOS and then I used to be that
fed up that when the holidays come like three days before the holidays
I’d go and book something EOS and you know what your mum’s like, she
likes to pack three months EOS yeah, yeah and make lists about lists
yeah EOS so it, yeah it used- it used to be a nightmare she used to
have a list of the lists yeah EOS and it used to be a nightmare
because she’d be panicking like anything because she had to try and
get everything EOS in one day EOS and she was five months pregnant at
the time with **anon** when we took EOS and you were- what were you-
you were just under two, and for some reason everything was a post
office, and I had to- I mean your mum had a great holiday she was
laying around for two weeks getting the sun I was running around after
you for two weeks constantly EOS walking all around the walls, all
around the pools EOS and you were great and there was a little slide
into the kiddies' pool and I think it was all great EOS and you were
sliding down it and you were loving it until you went EOS until your
head got wet EOS that was it then you didn't want, ‘I want to go home,
you’ve gotta take me home’ EOS where was we on holiday when we bought
**anon** that blow-up boat EOS that was Majorca that. yeah he had like
this inflatable boat, but he- he wouldn't go in the water would he?
wouldn't go in the water cos his legs would go through the holes and
into the water, so he wouldn't go in it so he used to just sit at the
side of the pool in this thing with his trunks and his EOS and never
go in the water. he was only about two wasn't he? he EOS I remember
when we took you- yeah, I think we got a picture of him somewhere sat
in it haven't we? yeah, we went to that other one at Majorca when you
was in the kiddie EOS yeah, the Wizzy club when I was a tree. yeah,
what was her name? Was it **anon**? **anon** yeah, I think s- you've
still got the certificate haven't you? yeah, somewhere yeah. yeah,
from when you was in the Wizzy Club and you was only what, and you had
your one favourite book with you. what was that? do you not remember
it? yeah, you must remember it, one book you wanted to take. won’t
have been Thomas the Tank? no, no, no. cos that was after. oh I don't
know. the Pied Piper. oh God, yeah, the Pied Piper. and you knew every
single word of the book. this little lady bird book and you knew every
single word of the book and you used to have that- that story time at
the end of the night for the kids at about six o'clock, and she came
up to me this **anon** cos you'd taken your book, and you was only
about three and she came up to me and she says ‘can Natalie **anon**
read?’, so I said ‘no, no, she EOS she says ‘ but she's sat there with
the book. She’s turning the pages at exactly the right time’ EOS I
said ‘that's her absolute favourite book’ I said ‘that's the only book
she wanted to bring with her’ EOS I said ‘she knows every single line
in that book. Every single word’ and I said ‘the bad part about that
is, is when I have to read it to her every night before she goes to
sleep, I can't skip a page’ EOS ‘cos she’ll say, ‘well you’ve missed a
bit there, you know, that's not next that dad’.’ you know EOS yeah,
and then we had the fancy dress there didn't we and he did me up like
in this vest EOS and made me a hula skirt didn't you out of palms. no
he w- you weren't. No, what it was it w- it was the last day, it- it
was the last day we were there and we're all packed ready to go EOS
and then she says that she's having a fancy dress for the kids. I
thought ‘oh God, what- what are we going to do on the last day?’ cos
everything’s packed, and you know what your mum’s like, she'd listed
everything again so EOS yeah, yeah, so you can't take it out of
sequence. you know and the list was in the s- you can't take anything
out, no, no if you get dirty you've got to stay dirty because I’ve got
me list in the case. you know EOS so you were there, I mean, you were
only what?, so high and curly dark hair and really dark skin because
of the- the- the Maltese in you EOS and er, I thought ‘what are we
going to do with her?’ I thought ‘we'll make her into a hula girl’ EOS
and that- so I went out and I ripped all the- the- the palms off the
trees strung them all together and made you a little grass skirt. put
a- a flower on each side of your head, and that was it, just a skirt
and a flower on each side of your head and your knickers. and when you
went- when you went to it and she asked you what you were you said you
was a tree. did I win? yeah you did, you won it, yeah, but you said
you was a tree. she says ‘what have you come as Natalie **anon**?’, ‘a
tree.’ EOS intellig- you can't have it all. I could read. and that
little girl that you met. yeah, there's a language one for you, was
she a Geordie? yeah, they were Geordies yeah and- and the accent EOS
yeah, and her name was **anon**. her name was **anon** EOS but I
thought she was **anon** EOS I thought her name was **anon** EOS and I
said to you, ‘no, it’s **anon**’, and you got really angry, ‘no, her
name’s **anon**!’ you know, and- she said, ‘her name’s **anon**’, I
said, ‘Natalie **anon**, that’s just the way they speak’, ‘no!
**anon** her name’ EOS and you kept calling her ‘**anon**’ EOS I bet
they thought I was taking the mick out of them EOS yeah, but you wrote
to her for a while, didn’t you? I think so, yeah EOS Th- that girl
afterwards, didn’t you? I think so EOS ah, but yeah God, it’s crazy
isn’t it, what you remember EOS but- I don’t- it’s whether- cos when
you hear the story, you don’t know if you remember it or EOS you just
think you remember it, you know, cos someone’s told you EOS cos you’re
too little, aren’t you? But I do remember that book, I remember liking
that book mm EOS but that- but you wouldn’t go anywhere without that
book EOS you really- and then EOS wait, I bet- I doubt **anon** had a
favourite book EOS no, **anon** wasn’t a reader EOS cos **anon**- me
brother doesn’t like reading EOS I’ve always had loads and loads of
books, and he’s just into EOS wrestling, he’s into- now he’s a-
wrestling was his favourite EOS now he’s a petrol head, isn’t he? he
loves his car now, but he was- he always loved Maths **anon**, didn’t
he, ? yeah, he was better at Maths EOS and I was always better at the
English and the History side of everything, the writing, and- but he
hates that so it’s like, if he ever applies for a job it’s like,
‘Natalie **anon**, can you come and do the big question for me on the
application form?’ EOS has he asked you for this one yet? no, I d-
I’ve already done it for him last time, when he applied, so he’s used
the same one EOS I remember that time he had- was going to his parents
evening and they- was it the History teacher or something had- had
pulled a fist at him or something, he was messing about in class not
remember EOS and he said to me- i- it wasn’t long before he left, and-
and he said to me before we went, before me and your Mum went, and he
said erm, ‘will you have a word with the history teacher Dad’, so I
said, ‘yeah, why? What’s wrong?’, ‘it’s only he pulled a fa- erm, he
pulled a fist at me in class’, I says, ‘why? What were you doing?’ he
says, ‘oh, we was only messing about’ EOS so I said, ‘you’re lucky,’ I
said, ‘cos when I was at school, they wouldn’t have pulled a fist at
you, they’d have used it’ EOS you’d have got one, yeah EOS you know,
you’d have got a board duster on your head or a piece of chalk
straight between the eyes EOS you know, but- and- and when I went up
to the school and saw the History teacher, I said, ‘I believe you’ve
had a bit of trouble with **anon**’ he says, ‘oh yeah,’ he said, ‘i-
it was nothing really’ he said, ‘I got a bit frustrated’, I says,
‘well listen,’ I says, ‘you’ve got my backing,’ I said, ‘if he’s out
of hand’, I said, ‘if it was up EOS ‘you could take him out and cane
him, the way I had when I was at EOS you know, cos it never did me any
harm EOS and all of this molly-coddling EOS well that’s it cos they’re
too cheeky now aren’t they EOS cos they know they can get away with
it, cos they can’t do anything, but like give them detention or give
them lines or something like that EOS but, I remember being at school,
I was what, must’ve been twelve years old, so it would’ve been the
first year in **anon** EOS and- and- like, you- you’re just kids
messing around in the school EOS and the headmaster, I mean I was
only- only just average sized kid, you know, just spun me round and
slapped me full in the face, in front EOS ‘stop messing around!’, and
you’re just left there, ringing EOS you know, and it’s just, ‘what’s
happened?’, no, but you don’t go home and tell your Mum or Dad that
it’s happened because you’d get another one, you know EOS ‘you should
behave’ EOS for being naughty EOS crazy, isn’t it EOS well we had
that- that one teacher and erm, we used to have to give school fund
every week, used to have to g- I think it was five pence or something
like that EOS and it was supposed to- with it being a catholic school
it was supposed to be- is that like, before they used to do things
like, Saint Joseph’s penny and all that stuff EOS oh God, they always
did that, oh, they’ve always had that EOS we always got them silly
boxes we used to have to make up and take EOS fill it they they empty
it EOS you know, and sisters- yeah EOS and give it you back EOS yeah,
sisters of the poor and sisters of the dead and EOS all of that like
sisters of everything EOS and any saints day, anything to get any
money off you EOS yeah, cash based religion EOS Catholicism, you know
EOS erm I can’t remember what I was saying now EOS the tea- you had a
teacher EOS oh that teacher, yeah and he- and he was our- our sports
teacher and this- this is how things have changed, now this- this
teacher would’ve got arrested these days for what he used to do to us,
I mean, you’re like twelve, thirteen years old, and you’re going
through that puberty stage, yeah, and- and when you come out of gym
nobody- nobody wants to- you’ve gotta go for a shower, but nobody
wants to strip off EOS you know, and he used to make everybody strip
off, nobody could go in in the shorts or anything like that like
everybody tried to do, but he’d- he’d come in the shower himself, with
a wet towel, and he’d be hitting you with the towel and EOS honestly,
he’d be hitting you with the towel, but then, talk about a bit on the
pervy side really, the- you know the foot shower EOS he’d- each week
he’d choose one kid to wash his feet honestly EOS you know, and this-
this was a Catholic school and this was our gym EOS but the- the- the
same guy was erm, our form teacher for one year, and if you didn’t
bring in school fund or if you got in trouble in his EOS he had a dice
and he’d roll the dice EOS and whatever it landed on, that was how
many canes you got EOS and if it landed on six you got a chance to
roll it again EOS so you definitely got them EOS yeah, you definitely
got some but it was- it was just whether you were gonna get one or
five EOS yeah God it’s ment- now they’d just- but if six came up
again, you got a six EOS cos now you’d just get lines, I was actually
reading something on facebook the other day, all about **anon**, you
know, and about the teachers where people like coming on an
reminiscing and they’re like posting on there and stuff, and there was
one guy **anon**, that used to do the IT, and I thought he was alright
but they all used to take the mickey out of him and he had like a
squeaky voice and he had like this massive big boil on his head EOS
and like, he was just a little bit, you know, a bit sweaty and, just
one of them, and they all used to call him **anon** EOS but he- he
actually got sacked and I think all he actually did was, somebody was
like- shout at somebody EOS yeah, he shouted at someone, and someone
was being disruptive and it was on- I think it was only like the- he
was there for the first year I think I was there, so I would’ve only
been like, what, twelve, and then after the second- the second year he
never came back and from what I- I gather he just like literally,
asked someone to leave and they were messing about and wouldn’t go
out, and he just pushed them outside the door, and that was it, he was
gone EOS just for like, forcefully removing somebody from the class
EOS and cos we- none of us knew like why he’d left and they were all
like sort of talking about it on there and, there used to be this
other guy as well, erm, the D-T teacher, **anon**, and erm, they all
used to take the mickey out of him cos he used to like, wear dead
tight pants, and he used to stand like an action man, but he was only
like five foot four or something EOS dead tight pants and a camel toe
EOS yeah, yeah, and they used to call him like- he used to call all
the lads, ‘listen, sonny jim’ EOS yeah, ‘when I was a lad’ EOS like,
you know when he was talking to them, yeah EOS ‘when I was a lad’ so
EOS but he- apparently he- they were saying on there we never- I
didn’t know that, but his brother was at- famous, he was an actor, in
some like TV programme, I can’t remember what he was in now but, he
turned into like, a bit of a disgrace like, his brother, and
apparently like he never you know, wanted to talk about him, and he
didn’t really have anything to do with him, or anything, and it’s-
they were like all talking about it on there, so then there was like
**anon**, our DT teacher, he was mental, he used to like, this
**anon** guy, and like he- he’d like deliberately say people’s names
wrong, just to wind them up, so like my n- my mate, her name was
**anon**, and when he used to read the register out, he used to just
read out **anon** EOS like that to her, and she used to go, ‘I’m not
answering you, if you don’t use me name properly’, he goes, ‘right,
you’re in’ EOS there was some characters but, it’s- they- some of them
were good, but it was more like, sort of the older ones, you know, the
proper old fashioned ones, but like, when they were all new, they were
all like, sort of they’d either be intimidated by the kids or, they’d
just like be super P-C, cos with it being a EOS as well, it was just,
you know, people are all the more eager to complain aren’t they but
EOS oh, well the- there was no P-C when I was at school w- when- w-
started at school, remember I told you that, when I slipped off that
corrugated steel EOS I’d ripped all the skin off me fingers, and I
went into school the next day, with plasters all over me hands EOS and
the k- the teacher caned me on the same hand EOS now that was- I was
about- I was probably about nine or ten when that EOS you know, and-
and- and they were wicked, and we used to have this- this one teacher,
**anon** you know the three foot ruler they used to use on the- on the
board EOS that was used for whacking you on the head with EOS and we
had- we had another one, **anon**, and he had a whip and he had- it
had a wooden handle, about so big, yeah, and then it was like- it was
like a belt about, such a length, there, and he used to hit you with
that and it used to wrap round your hand and come back EOS and flick
you, it was- he was a nasty piece of work him EOS and then this- this
guy called **anon** he- he was erm, he was really nice, this- I was
probably about eight years old, and he’d erm, he’d been caught in the
erm, the retreat from Dunkirk EOS erm, and he’d been on the beaches
for like three or four days waiting to get a boat back home in the
Second World War, and erm, he was shell EOS and- but he was a really-
a really, really nice teacher and dead tolerant and everything, but if
you upset him EOS ah, he used to, and he’d boil, and his face would be
red- yeah, and he’d go really, really crazy, like everything’d come
out of him, you know, but he was- there used to be like about thirty-
six kids in a class EOS cos think, they were a lot smaller when I was
at school EOS yeah, every Friday night, before we went home, or every
Friday afternoon, he’d buy the whole class a bar of chocolate each EOS
he was- he was great, he was really nice, but he used to have this-
like this- this- this bit of erm schizophrenia sort of spate you know,
that he’d- he just- he’d just switch completely EOS yeah, to someone
else EOS and he could be a l- yeah, could be a little bit scary EOS
yeah that’s- that- my favourite teacher though was **anon**, me
History teacher, cos she was great, and cos I- oh you- she loved you,
because you loved history EOS yeah, oh I know she loved me, yeah, cos
I loved history but, there was that- she was like that though, she’d
boil, she’d be dead nice and like dead chatty and if you loved work
and you wanted to work she loved you, but if you wanted to just like
doss about, she didn’t have any time for you, and there was this lad
in my class, **anon**, and he wanted to be a pilot, and he- he did
history just because he wanted to learn about the planes that were
used in the wars, and he’d obviously didn’t get to learn that much
about it at- I don’t think, to what he was expecting but- why cos- cos
he pilots trolleys round tescos does he now EOS yeah, yeah, I think he
actually- I think he has got his pilots license now though, but erm,
yeah, and he used to like sit next to me like in class, I remember I
was doing this mock test as it was coming up to our GCSEs, and sh-
she’s stood there and she’s like, going through all the answers after
and everybody’s saying like what they got, and what they got, and
she’s saying what the right answer is, and then he’s going like down
this page and he’s going, ‘I haven’t got that question’, so she’s
going, ‘you must have it **anon**, you must have it, you’re just not
looking at it right’, ‘I haven’t got it, I haven’t got the next one
either’ like that, and she goes, ‘let me have a look’ like that, so
she takes the paper off him, and he’d been doing a completely
different paper to all of us, it had got mixed up in there and he
goes, ‘I wouldn’t mind, but I thought it was a bit wrong, cos when I
looked at Natalie’s **anon** answers in the exam’ EOS ‘they weren’t
anything to do with my questions’ EOS and you could just see- that’s
what she was like, she was quite pale, and she had this big like, mad
perm, so her hair was like, out on end, and you could see the blood,
you know, like rising up her face, and he’s going, ‘there’s gonna be
steam coming out of her ears in a minute, there’s steam coming out of
her ears’ and he used to like really wind her up, and like, you’d be
outside the class, and she’d line you all up to come in and then she’d
walk down the line and make sure you were all in EOS and then she’d
let you all go in, like one by one and he’d be like, behind me in
line, going ‘walking the mile’ EOS ‘walking the green mile’ she was
proper like- cos we did all the Nazis and everything EOS oh sh- was
she the one that was dead chuffed cos you had a copy of ‘mein kampf’
yeah EOS yeah, yeah, yeah, I had it in me school bag, cos me Dad had
leant it me and I’d literally read about four pages, and she saw it
like as I was unpacking stuff EOS and decided Hitler was a nutter EOS
and put it away EOS and she like picked it up and she’s stood there in
front of the class going, ‘look at this, Natalie’s **anon** got ‘mein
kampf’.’ And I was like, ‘shut up’ EOS they already think I’m a swot
EOS yeah, cos what- that lad used to say, ‘beam me up swotty’ didn’t
he, yeah, yeah, in first year, yeah EOS ‘beam me up swotty’ yeah EOS
but he- she was that enthusiastic about Hitler and all the Nazis and
everything, just- not about what they did, obviously, but just about
teaching about it, and it was the bit she was obviously really
interested in, he’s- this lad, **anon**, used to call her, **anon**
EOS cos she was just so into it, I remember we went on this trip to
London, and we’d had to have like this essay in about something to do
with the Nazis before we went, and he’d not done it, and she’d give
him like and extension, to give it to her before we went on this trip,
and he’d still not give it to her and we were sat at the back of the
coach on the way there and he goes, did- I said, ‘did you give her
that essay?’, so he goes, ‘did I heck, no I didn’t get it in, I just
avoided her all day today ‘til we were leaving’, so I went, ‘oh
right’, and we were having a laugh about it, and I said, ‘she won’t
let you get away with it you know’, he’s like, ‘I know, we’ll be there
on the London Eye and she’ll be like, climbing up the side of it with
the essay in her mouth’ EOS and he was like, one of those, they sat
there at the back, you know, drinking vodka out of a cap like, have it
in a seven up bottle or something EOS crazy it’s always like- did you
ever keep any animals in the class at school, did you ever? h- erm,
not at high school, we didn’t, no, at primary school we did, we had
hamsters erm, and stick insects EOS oh, we- we had- we had a hamster
when I was in primary school, we had budgies, and we had two rabbits,
but we used to- oh, we had fish as well EOS we used to use the rabbits
as an excuse to get out of class EOS and they used to stink in the
back of the classroom, because they- they were basically belonged to
me and this other lad, they kept the hutch at the side of where we
were EOS and rabbits, ah EOS they smell, yeah EOS God, they smell
something awful EOS and these never used to get cleaned out, we used
to take them for a walk in the yard so we could get out of lessons EOS
we had a big yard, when we had this hamster, there was this lad in our
class called **anon**, we used to call him **anon**, and he was EOS
you know, these big and daft kids EOS he was a real one of these big
and daft kids, and the hamster got out EOS and I said, ‘hey **anon**,
it’s there, behind you’, and he stands back, and he crunches its head
under its foot EOS and this hamsters like EOS yeah , yeah, its teeth
had gone through its- you know they have them big teeth EOS yeah,
through its bottom lip EOS and its teeth had gone through the bottom
jaw bit yeah, so we- we took it out and a- asked the teacher if we
could go and bury it, so we took it out and buried it while it was
still alive EOS it wa- it just wasn’t quite dead, you know EOS I bet
it was when the weight of the dirt went on it EOS yeah, well, I don’t
know, but it was starting to rain so we thought we’d better get on
with it EOS ooh, so not only was it twitching and half dead i- under
soil- it was drowning under there as well EOS oh my God EOS oh no, we
had hamsters, and we had erm, you have always have hamsters, don’t
you? remember- cos **anon** had that hamster that he brought home as
well we had fish, and I remember one of the fish died and the teacher
was like, ‘oh, you need to flush it down the toilet’, and I was really
upset, cos we had fish when we were little, didn’t we? Goldfish, and I
was like, ‘you can’t put it down the toilet, it’s not right’, ‘oh it’s
dead, it’ll be alright’ and i- I was like, I- you’ve got to bury it
EOS yeah, but I was like worrying about it, she went off and did it,
and I’m thinking, ‘God, what if it isn’t dead’, it would be like stuck
in the u-bend, you know, in the toilet EOS just there forever,
swimming around EOS and then we had the stick insects that no one
wanted to clean cos you had to take them out, ooh God, I don’t like
insects EOS well, when we had- when we had the budgie we used to- cos
we used to get them to stay in at dinner time, cos there was always a
reason with us for having a pet in the class, it was either EOS to get
out of the class or to get in the class when the teachers weren’t
there, and the budgie, we used to be able to get in straight after
dinner because, ‘let the budgie out for a bit of exercise while the
other kids all-’ EOS did he not just poo all over? no, they don’t,
well we had- we had budgies, we kept budgies when you was a kid M; you
know, all they did was eat the picture frames, weren’t they, budgies
and cockatiels, you know EOS but erm, the classrooms when I was a kid,
they were huge, the EOS with really high ceilings and you couldn’t
catch this bloody budgie, cos the- the teacher used to have to have
one of these- these poles for opening the top windows the- you know-
oh yeah, we had them, yeah EOS and erm, we couldn’t catch this budgie
so we used to squirt it with water pistols until it got soaked and it
couldn’t fly EOS and then- then throw and old curtain over it and wrap
it up in a curtain and stick it back in the cage EOS it was really
well looked after, you know EOS I’m surprised it ever bothered to come
out to fly EOS one of- one of the cleaners took it home in the end
before it just fell off the perch EOS oh, that’s nasty, remember them
cockatiels we had though, and we used to let them out and they’d fly
around in the living room and I had one, mine was **anon** like the
grey one, wasn’t it, with the red cheeks EOS and then **anon** had,
what was his, **anon**? His white one, was it EOS **anon**, the white
one, yeah EOS and it used to like land on his head, remember, and it
used to route through his hair EOS it used to like- I dunno like, it
was looking for lice EOS yeah, yeah used to like, clean his head, you
know like with his beak, was really weird EOS was it rabbits you had?
And you called yours the traditional **anon** EOS and **anon** called
his **anon** EOS **anon**, and **anon** EOS I remember them getting
out one day, into the rockery at the back, and they were going behind
and me **anon** was there, and he’s quite big me **anon**, isn’t he?
And he was like, running around EOS trying to catch it, yeah EOS from
one side of the rockery to the other trying to catch these rabbits,
remember that happening EOS is that the dogs? think the dogs are
getting a bit restless aren’t they, they’re at the EOS I thought- I
thought I haven’t got anything in the washer EOS sounds like it EOS
sounds like the washing machine moving EOS well I used to- I used to
collect like frogs and newts and what have you when I was a k- cos it-
that was the kind of things we did, we’d- go up to, I mean they call
it ‘Black Harry’ up here now, don’t they, but we used to call it dead
railway at the side of **anon** golf club EOS oh, yeah, yeah, yeah EOS
there’s- there’s three lakes there EOS that, at the time, we called
them the three sisters, and there was a stream that was part of the
old railway that had been taken up years ago that- that used to run up
the side of it EOS we used to get all the frogs and newts there, well
I had erm, a demi jar, and it was about a- a gallon sized demi jar,
you know, with really thick glass EOS and we lived on the flats over
here in Salford, and then I had, all I was great at keeping pairs,
believe me, we had- had all of these frogs in it, or newts which it
was, but, they were on the veranda, in the sun, in this jar, and they
had no air getting out for water, and they boiled EOS because the
water was come- because the sun was coming through this jar, and there
was only like that much water in it, you know EOS and they boiled
alive in it EOS and I’ll come back and they’re all upside down, dead
EOS I bet me Nanna was glad, weren’t she, I bet she didn’t like having
EOS oh yeah, she didn’t like anything like that, no EOS no, so how did
you like get from the flats to there, did you always just used to
walk? we used to walk, yeah, or bikes, not like you lot, you know EOS
it’s quite far that EOS ‘where’s the car?’ you know EOS no, we used to
walk EOS yeah, it’s quite f- do people not use the buses? we we- we
didn’t have any bloody money, we were- you know, we were EOS we didn’t
have a- you wanted to go somewhere, you walked EOS used to go on your
bike- I mean we used to go on an expedition to **anon** EOS you know,
we- we’d go, we- we were all kids EOS that’s quite far though isn’t
it, from where you were? yeah, yeah we were all kids and- and we’d
have these Second World War water canteens EOS and- and- and we’d be
going on our adventures, we- we were going to, you know, we were off
to fight the Second World War on the woods, you EOS cos that’s what we
got brought up on, it’s- kids don’t do that now though, you never like
see them playing out- when they’re outside they’re just being a menace
unless they’re really little like the ones around here, where they’re
out on the bikes, you know, and stuff like that, and you see them on
the skateboards and stuff, now they’re just EOS I mean, we used- yeah
EOS vandalising summet aren’t they, or drinking on the corner, or- I
mean we were, I mean the kids now, the- they’re nothing to what we EOS
we were absolute little sods EOS I mean we used to have full scale
battles for bonfire wood EOS would, cos every- cos what- when we were
kids, where we lived, there was loads of crofts all over the place,
and that was cos we were so close to the docks during the war EOS
these are all bombsites, so you’d have a- a row of terraced houses,
and four or five houses in the middle’d be missing, and there’s just
be a croft EOS where a bomb had just hit that and the rest of the
street was okay EOS and these were all over the place, and wherever
there was one of these, the kids in that area, that was their bonfire
spot EOS so we used to have raids and raid the others EOS and nick
there wood but when I- I say raids, it wasn’t just all like, charging
and shouting and what have you, we’re lobbing bricks at one another,
throwing bricks, and we used to have bin lids as shields EOS honestly,
cos I had my head split open three times EOS and- and in them days, I
mean i- if a kid gets his head split open now, it’s off to the
hospital and EOS have a cat scan and, whatever else, you know EOS no,
know what I mean? your Nanna’d just look at it, you know, bathe it,
‘oh, you’re alright, go on’ EOS back outside, get some more dirt in
it, you’ll be alright EOS yeah, yeah, so I probably had me brains
mashed at some time or other and it was just EOS just part of growing
up EOS no, that we’d- we’d- we’d played on the demolition as kids EOS
when they were pulling all the old terraced houses down, now if
they’re bringing any- if they’re pulling anything down, there’s a
bloody big secure fence around it and the kids can’t go in EOS yeah,
and they have all them signs up don’t they and stuff EOS well now, if
kids do go on it and hurt their self, they end up claiming, don’t they
EOS yeah, well we used to be walking cos they’d- they’d strip all- all
the wood out of them, they’d strip all the- the floorboards out of
them, and just leave the joists EOS and we’d be upstairs, maybe two,
three stories high, walking along these joists with nothing- and- and
that was just part of it, that was- part of what we did, that was part
of growing up EOS you know, but we were- I mean what the kids do these
days was nothing- and I mean all this asbo rubbish, and all that lot,
we would’ve been getting them all the time EOS we were absolute little
swines we were EOS I think what it is now, is just people- kids then
were just like naughty, and they were playing, but now, they’re just
disrespectful aren’t they, I think EOS well what I- I don’t think EOS
there’s a difference, isn’t there? we weren’t naughty so much as we
never caused any trouble at home, you never caused- y- you basically,
you didn’t shit on your own doorstep EOS for want of a better
description, you didn’t erm, but there was- but people were just
curious and that EOS yeah, there was always a group of us, and that’s
all we had to play EOS you know, I mean, the- I remember there being a
batman craze when I was about what, probably about six or seven, it
was- it was the original batman series where it was all ‘kapow’ and
‘kazam’ and all this lot and- ‘Batman and Robin, the boy wonder’, you
know, and erm, we were mad on EOS so the whole estate, you’d have
like, sixty, seventy kids, all with a lone ranger mask, cos that’s all
we could afford for a couple of pence from the paper shop, and a
curtain tied round you EOS you know, as your cloak y- your batarang,
or was it the bat rope, no the bat rope was a coat hanger on a piece
of string EOS and yo- you’d be throwing it over walls and trying to
walk up the wall like batman did EOS like that, you know and that’s
what we had EOS yeah but now you see- I saw some- a little kid the
other day, in a full batman suit, not having none of that, o EOS just
walking round Morrison’s with his Mum EOS no, we had none of that, we
had a- we didn’t even have the right mask, it was the lone ranger mask
EOS just something to EOS you know, and that- that- that’s what we had
EOS cover your face, yeah EOS yeah, yeah, and everybody’d be running
round going ‘batman, de, de, de, de, de, de, de, de, de’ EOS well it’s
like when I was- little I remember like there was- there was like sort
of two ways of dressing up f- f- do you mind if I smoke? no, that’s
fine EOS for Halloween weren’t there, there was like EOS you got
ashtray Natalie **anon**? erm, yeah, but it’s out there EOS erm, there
was like two ways of dressing up for Halloween, there was like, you
could either- there’s only about two minutes left okay EOS get you
like erm, proper stuff- remember when I used to have them EOS do you
remember them that you used to put on, and then like they’d have the
red nails on the end, you’d have them or you’d just like go totally
the other way and just wear summet black and tie a bin bag like round
you and then you’d just go and run round if you wanted to be really
lazy, and just knock on the doors, but then when you’re a kid like you
love doing that and then like, when you get older now, and all the
kids start coming round, you just like close the curtains and turn all
the lights off and pretend you’re not in so you don’t have to give
them anything EOS cos like, when I had my other house, I- I didn’t
have any sweets in, I’d completely forgot, and I had like a few
chocolate biscuits, and then, like, I gave a few of them out, and
after that I’d run out and they were like, this last group come round,
and I was like, ‘oh, I’ll just give them twenty p each’ you know, and
then once they knew there was money coming from one address EOS they
all came back and started knocking on the door, so I had to like turn
all the lights off downstairs, and go and sit upstairs, in the back
bedroom cos like the terraces are like, alleys, aren’t they, in
between? so they wouldn’t know we were in there, so we was like camped
out in the bedroom for the whole night at the back, with like this
tiny little TV and the computer, just watching that like, ignoring
them all knocking on the door EOS well, when yous- when yous were kids
I had the shop so you used to- you used to get everything you wanted,
didn’t you, you’d- you’d come down for Halloween EOS and it’d be,
you’d just choose from what was there EOS and get everything, and then
your Mum’d take you trick or treating or EOS they called it to EOS go
walking round EOS and then when they used to ask you for the trick you
always used to be like, ‘I don’t know that, can’t I just have some
sweets’ EOS you remember them girls when we had the shop, or were you
too young to remember that, who, you kept coming in the shop during
that holiday and, ‘can I have a bottle of lemonade, can I have a
bottle of-’ EOS ‘lucozade, can I have a bag of crisps, can I have some
sweets’, and I was saying to your Mum, I was saying, ‘what’s- what’s
going on with Natalie **anon** here, she- she’s eating an awful lot of
stuff, she’s not normally like this’, and that- that older girl was
sending you in EOS saying, ‘go and get this off your Dad, and go and
get that off your EOS yeah, it was like, there was them benches round
the side weren’t EOS I was telling **anon** that cos he was- we’d
drove past the shop the other week but I think it was when we went up
to **anon** we were coming back, and they’ve took all the trees down
in front of it now EOS and there’s a lay by isn’t there, yeah EOS
yeah, do you remember when we used to stand there, me and **anon**,
and we used to be ripping all the bark off them trees EOS and stuff at
the side, and then there was the chippy next door, and then I was
telling him about when we used to sit in the video shop when it was
closed in the day, and we’d like, sit in behind the counter and there
was like the door for the store room, and we had like them little
goblins that used to stick and roll down things, and we used to be
throwing them at the door, and racing them EOS like down the door and
th- but they never used to make it all the way down, they used to
always get half way and fall off EOS yeah, cos they were just covered
in that much dirt from the floor that they didn’t stick anymore EOS
and fluff out your pockets, and- yeah EOS but I remember that girl
though, cos I- her Nanna was a real good customer in the shop EOS and
when I- I told her Nanna about it, cos I came round and I- these girls
were sending you into the shop, and her Nanna- her Nanna had a walking
stick EOS and she battered her all the way home with this walking
stick EOS because she’d been doing that sending you into the shop EOS
God, that was rough down there wasn’t it? Where that shop was, that
was really rough, yeah EOS Yeah, **anon** still not that nice now
though, is it EOS no, no Beirut EOS and they’re building all them
houses now aren’t they, around it EOS to hide it, the middle of it EOS
like they did with Ordsall, yeah EOS yeah, building all nice stuff-
erm, if- if you go down **anon**, then you go down **anon**, it’s all
nice new buildings all the way down both of them- and Beirut in the
middle EOS you know, so people buy in it, don’t they EOS even though
what’s behind them EOS yeah, it’s cos in- cos they’re bringing all the
BBC up and everything EOS they’re hoping they’re all gonna move in
aren’t they EOS ‘media city’ or something they’re calling it aren’t
they, yeah EOS yeah, and that’s going on the Lowry isn’t it, what used
to be there though, where the Lowry is? The Lowry? That was the docks
EOS that was, I mean, when I was a kid, I mean, all the big ships used
to come up there, and- and the Trafford swing bridge, that used to
turn quite often, cos when we used to go to the matches, go watching
EOS quite often you’d be waiting to cross over while the bridge turned
and a big ship went through EOS cos the ships come up from just past
the Mersey were they started digging the ship canal, right into
Salford docks EOS cos Trafford park was one of the biggest industrial
areas in Europe EOS but there’s nothing there now EOS no, it’s all
like warehouses isn’t it, yeah EOS and apartments that are empty EOS
yeah, that no one wants to live in, yeah EOS right on an industrial
estate EOS but yous didn’t- yous didn’t get up to half the things, did
I- I told you about that time we were riding on top of the lifts
didn’t I? yeah the caretaker on that block of flats, me and my mate
EOS yeah, and the controllers were on top of the lift EOS yeah, the
controls were on the top of the lift and people were able to get into
the life and push the button EOS and then we were able to override it
on the top, so they’d push seven, and we’d take them to two EOS and
then, ‘what the bloody hells wrong with this lift’, and they’d push
seven again and we’d take them to the ground floor EOS I hate that
though, when you’re in a lift EOS and it doesn’t do what you want, cos
you always think, ‘I’m gonna get stuck, the doors not gonna open’, I
did it at work the other day, I went in the lift, cos they’re working
on our building at the minute, so we have to- cos we’re on the ground
floor, they’re working on like all the floors in between, where we
were able to go to the toilets, cos there’s not toilets on ours, erm,
and then the ones where they’ve got nobody on them, they’re block-
they’re locked, so we have to b- going up to the seventh floor to use
the toilets, and erm, like, I went in and I was that- I had me phone
with me, I was on me lunch and I went in, I had me phone with me, I’m
like messing with it, I walked into the lift, then it goes, ‘doors
closing’ like this, I’m stood there and I’m thinking, ‘it’s not going’
EOS I can’t understand why they have that EOS nothing’s happening and
I’d just not pressed the button, but it was quiet, and then the lights
started going off EOS and I was thinking, ‘oh God, I’m stuck’ EOS I
can’t understand why they have that, ‘doors closing’ I mean, cos if
you’re blind you can hear it, if you’re deaf you can see it, and if
you’ve got all your faculties you know the bloody doors are shutting
don’t you EOS so I- ‘doors are closing’ EOS and if you don’t, you will
do when you get stuck in it EOS ‘doors are closing’, I was telling
**anon** about when they were refurbishing erm, Victoria station in
Manchester EOS did I ever tell you about the- the row of erm, portable
toilets that they put in there, never tell you about that? I don’t
think so, no EOS when we were kids, I was about thirteen, fourteen,
and we went up there, and they’re re- redoing all the- and the- they’d
closed the toilets down and they’d put this row of portable toilets in
well we found out you could go round the back of them, and you could
flush them from the back EOS so we used to wait until people went into
the toilet, got comfortable, and then flush it on them EOS ‘what the
hell’s that’ you know EOS wait for a scream EOS but we were behind and
they didn’t- they- they didn’t know that you could get behind them
people, and then they’d go out and they’d be soaking and what have
you, somebody else’d come in, flush it again on them, you know EOS we
had a great afternoon EOS it is, isn’t it? It is simple EOS cool,
that’s great for that bit, that’s fantastic