 One two three. One two three. Erm yeah th- that’s fine. Do you want
my name? Oh no that’s fine. Erm you can start now- Whenever you’re
ready. Thank you. Go on then. You start then dear. Well do you r- .
What’s her f- Can you switch off if you don’t think it’s right? We
were both born up in **anon** in Salford. Is that the- Yeah that’s
fine. Erm you lived across- we- I lived across the f- there was a
football pitch. I lived at one end EOS And I- I lived with my grandma
and mum and dad. Erm and she had what called then a corner shop- which
s- it sold everything. Bread and milk and erm we lived with her she’d
just lost her husband and bought this shop and erm my dad was a and
decorator and had a lot of out of work. And he used to get three- he-
He- he worked for himself. He had his own business. He didn’t then. Oh
no he didn’t EOS And he used to get three pounds a week- to keep us
all and he used to give it my grandma. And in return he used to get a
couple of packets of cigarettes. So erm you lived across. I lived
across yes- across the pitch. Erm and during the war, just after the
war she used to put cigarettes counter for you didn’t she? I- I didn’t
smoke then but I erm- I worked as a erm motor mechanic and the lads
there, there was quite a lot of them smoked and you couldn’t get
because they were under the counter. ‘Would you go and ask your
girlfriend’s grandma’ . Erm would she let us have some cigarettes.
Which she used to like- let us have a few packets now and again. But
erm I didn’t have any brothers and sisters. But there were lots and
lots of children. And erm we used to play outside on the erm pavement.
There were no It was just erm streets in **anon**. And erm we used to
chalk the flags play hop-scotch and erm play ball against the wall.
And erm hide and peoples’ doors and I have been known to knock on
doors and run away. And I got a good smack off my mother for doing
that because she And erm we used to erm- we never went far away from
where we lived everywhere was very safe. There was no- no erm hint of
any people- doing wrong things to children. Not like there is today.
There was nothing like that. Where I lived anyway. Erm as I say my
grandma had a shop. Erm I can remember bread being four pence and milk
being four pence same time. And erm she used to have this machine
where she cut all up by hand with a machine that you turned a handle.
And she had loads sweets in one window and I was not allowed to touch
them- unless I asked her could I have some. Now I was allowed but if I
was taking any I got another smack off me mother across my legs. She
was a very strict- yeah. B: And it never ever did me any harm. Erm and
I did have to help out in because we used to stone the steps. We used
to stone the step of the stone the window ledges of the house- all the
way round. And stone the back steps- The back yard yeah. with a- a
brown stone or a cream stone. And while I was doing it I was told to
do **anon** next door so I had to do those as well. And erm what about
you? What did you do? What did I do? When you were young. What did you
play? Well I used to pla- play a lot of football. I used to love
football and of course facing the house was this big EOS Which was
horrible surface. Oh was it? int- in- incidentally- it wasn’t- It was
like cinders. I was a cinder pitch really. When you fell down it- it
used to take part of your knee cap off. So constant- constantly you
had black marks on your knees cinders had gone in. And erm but I used
to love playing football and erm I used to also EOS But what- also
what did you used to do? You used to go on the hills at **anon** which
was near **anon** prison. And what did you used to do there? You used
to go swimming in the- Swimming in these- horrible dirty filthy water.
When you think about it yes. There was they were like erm they were
like big clay pits filled with water and we used to go swimming in
there. I’d- Many a time I’d cut my foot, my legs because there was
broken bottle- There was old prams in there. Terrible when you think
of it. When I think about it now. I mean I wasn’t allowed. I didn’t
know this went on until we started to go out as erm w- when I was
about fifteen or sixteen. Keith **anon** used to mend my bike and I
used to go for chips for all the erm- All the- all the- boys and girls
that were all round on the corner there. But m- us best or funniest
memory was during the war and erm we used w- we had a back yard and it
had a little garden ine itwith a beautiful tree in it. The EOS Oh erm
th- what’s- the elderber- So we did have a bit of a- a little bit of
garden but this brick- they came and built these brick shelters. I
can’t remember w- w- how- the shelter being EOS But my dad made it
very nice inside with beds and we had erm some kind of a light in
there and erm my grandma would never ever come down when the air raids
went. And it was very frightening- and it must’ve been very
frightening for them but I was only nine, And it- to me it was a big
adventure. And one night my dad was a- an ARP warden like you see on
erm Dad’s EOS And erm one night they dropped all these incendiary
bombs on this pitch at the back of our house. and they hit erm-
**anon** prison that night. My dad dragged the dustbin out which in
those days they were metal EOS He dragged it outside and he said ‘come
on Brenda **anon** and help me with water because w- we’re going to
have to put all these fires out’. And I was running backwards and
forwards and passing him all this water. And erm we put the light on.
And I said to him ‘daddy this water’s not going- there’s no water in
unfortunately in the- so it- to me it’s very funny this. We were
dashing backwards and forwards with this buckets of water and was a
big hole in the dustbin. So as fast as we were p- Putting the water in
it was running out. putting the water in EOS So that to me is a- a
long- it’s- I mean it’s a long time ago and I and it was very funny.
And erm when these bombs these incendiary bombs dropped they dropped
outside a lamp post. You used to have big lamp posts in those days. I
what- what were those lamp posts erm- They used to be gas. And erm m-
Well they were, they were ga- I’ve never seen my grandma come down the
stairs as quick. She’d never ever got up. She used to stay in bed. But
she was down EOS And one night me mother came out and she’d got the
budgie on her EOS Oh no . So she had to t- and I said m- I used to
call her mammy ‘mammy’. The- forget what the bird was called. ‘So and
so’s on your head’. Sh- She turned quickly back and went you went back
in the house so that was another funny memory. And erm- about parents-
Erm what I used to do was erm when I think about it now I never let my
sons do that. But erm I used to erm when the air raids were EOS I used
to go out with a- a bucket and a pair of coal tongs and I’d be picking
shrapnel up. You’d- you’d- you’d be s- listening ye- and you’d hear it
going down the road. And you could see it was white hot. When I think
that really that my parents let me go out- picking the sh- the
shrapnel- the pieces of shrapnel up. I had buckets and buckets of it.
And we used to swap it with one another you know. It- it- if it had
German erm- erm- emblem on you used to erm swap it for something else.
Incendiary bombs had the German mark on. But as I say we were
children. It was an adventure to us. Erm I- I th- I thought it was
great- But can you imagine if it happened now. I’d be absolutely-
frightened to death. When you know what’s going on. You would. It- it
would be a very frightening experience cos my mother was a very
nervous lady. And she must’ve been absolutely frightened to death.
Terrified yeah. But on this football pitch facing they dug it all up
and put the biggest air raid shelter you’ve ever seen on the ground.
Yeah. And we used to go in there. It- it was terrible. It was t- Well
I never went in. Oh the- the smell. My mother wouldn’t go in there so-
But we- we had a- one built in the back erm- the back yard. Yeah they
built these brick- They were very strong brick. I meant there were
different types of EOS My auntie who lived in Urmston she had one and
it was called a Morrison and it was like a big cage. A- anderson ones.
They- Just like a big cage. A Morrison. Oh that was the Morrison yes.
And erm she used to have a lovely- a lovely embroidered cloth on it-
and flowers. And if the sirens went she used to go under there with
They had no children. Erm and then there were the Anderson ones with
in the garden. You used to go down into those. But erm m- there was w-
called a blitz. Erm it was a christmas blitz EOS Yes that was the
biggest . Nineteen forty- forty one. And my grandparents lived in
**anon** which in- still in Salford. And when I think of it now they
wouldn’t have child but I was ten and my mother put me on the bus
where we lived- to go and see- ‘go and see if your grandma’s alright.’
And I went on my own you EOS it would be unheard of now wouldn’t it?
And erm when I got there the street had been bombed- and all the
houses the curtains the windows were all blown out. And I stood at the
top of this street and I cried. And this man came to me and he said
‘what’s the matter?’ and I said to see my grandma and look at the
house’. He said ‘don’t worry I’ll They’ve taken them to th- what they
called a rest centre and it was in a church. And he took me there. Now
in this day and age I didn’t know the man. Well you know y- when you
think. Erm there was no- there was none of that fear. I think you were
safer then than you are today. I do really think so. Y- you never
heard of people being murdered and stabbed and- and like I say you
used- you used- you used to t- travel quite a way on your own EOS Yes
you did. young. Going to school. Oh yes. I went to **anon** school.
Was- yeah- Which is quite a way from- I went to- I went to **anon**
School. Before that I went to **anon** School and my mother used to
take me and bring me home four times a EOS She used to take me in the
morning. Come home. Come for me at lunchtime. We used to go through a-
and a park called **anon** Park which is still there. Take me back.
Then come for me back again in the EOS And then I went to **anon**
School EOS and I used to walk there e- but if me mother could afford
it I used to go on the bus. And it was a g- a long way from where I
lived. It was a long way yes. So erm that school isn’t there anymore
**anon** School. It was called Bella Vista because it was the **anon**
consul at one time. And it was a beautiful house. It was really
lovely. So erm and what do you remember from your first day at school?
I cried and cried- and the Headmistress was called **anon** and she
said to my mother ‘leave her, she’ll be alright’ and I sat at **anon**
side on a chair for EOS And she said to me mother ‘she’ll get fed up
before I will’. So that was- I hated it and I was very upset and
eventually **anon**- I got very friendly with her and she eventually
erm persuaded me to go into the classroom . No I never got into
trouble at school. I was quite a good child I EOS We- talking about
holidays we erm w- never had any holidays. Th- th- the erm- oh switch
it off. That alright? Is that ok? Yeah that’s fine. Don’t worry.
Telephone conversation omitted EOS No thank you EOS They’ve got ten
eight hundred and thirty four pound vouchers to give out. So I don’t-
Sounds a bit odd. oh, they’re always sending me- No I- I never had- I
never went on holiday. The only holiday I’ve ever had was- You had a
lot of brothers and sisters. I- I did. I was an only child. Yes I had
erm four brothers and one sister. And erm- but we never had holidays.
Only days out to Blackpool. But my- one of my brothers- I had four
half b- brothers. Step brothers. And erm he- he was a mechanic and erm
he- he- he used to do quite well and he said ‘if you save your spends
up’ which was about in today’s money about five p a week- erm ‘you can
come away with me’ and he had a m- a car which in the- those days was
fantastic you know. If somebody had a motorcar- Well if you had a
friend that was a car- that had a car it was absolutely marvellous. K:
Well he had a car and erm and erm he- he said ‘save your- save your
spends up and I’ll take you erm away for a week’. And he did and we w-
went to Wales and when I was sat at- I can see myself now sat in that
car. And I- I was hoping all my friends could see me EOS going away on
holiday. And that was about the best holiday I ever had then- as- as
child cos I never went away again after that. Like I say we used to
go, now and again they’d take us to Blackpool on the train. For a day.
But erm that was it. Well I went to Blackpool once a year for a week.
And what you did it was a- I forget what they called it. It wasn’t
self-catering but you bought the food and the person that you were
staying with erm she cooked it for you. Th- th- they- c- cooked it for
you yeah. I don’t know what they called it but th- they did a lot of
that in those days and that street it’s **anon** or **anon**. It’s
still there in Blackpool and we went once a week- erm once a year for
a week. can I go- move onto that one? Yeah. Oh I did get hurt while-
when I was playing as a child. Like Keith **anon** said erm I fell on
this what we called a rec. We called it the rec didn’t we? Yeah th- it
was a- yeah we called it a rec. I- I- It was short for recreation
ground EOS but we called it the rec and I fell on there. Ooh and I had
terrible knees. I always had- They were awful- and we’d gone to- my
mother had bound them up and we’d gone to visit me grandma who was a-
she was a lovely lady and they lived in **anon**. And she said ‘what’s
she done?’ and my mother told her and she looked at it and she said
‘get those bandages off’ because they’d all pussed EOS She said erm
‘let it- let- get the air to them’. I can always remember it and
within a- a day they’d- they’d all dried up. So EOS I’ve always
remembered that ever since . Your home town. Shall we go onto home
town? Yeah you can do yeah. Do you want me to talk or- Yeah go on
I’ll- are you going to say where were your parents from? Oh parents
from. Well erm my parents erm my father worked at EOS from **anon**,
from **anon**. Oh my- my- m- m- my erm mother’s family originate from
**anon**. That’s where erm- that’s where they were erm born. But my
father Erm, **anon** which was at Gorton. **anon** were locomotive
engineers and he used to cy- They made the big steam trains you know.
Steam trains and that. And he used to erm cycle from erm **anon** all
the way to Gorton every- and back again which is a heck of a way .
Like I say in- in regards to toys I’ve had very, very little toys. But
my father had some cowboys and indians made. He- he g- he got the erm
the chaps at work th- that make the erm moulds in- they made these erm
moulds for soldiers and cowboys and he- he made- he made them out of
solid lead. When you think now, I used t- they weren’t painted when-
and I got them for Christmas and when I think I used to play with lead
soldiers . You know which is really harmful for you. But that was the
only erm toys I had and I had them for years I was playing with those.
My interests when I was a child, I’ve just seen that there, erm was
music. I learned to play the piano. And erm I- I loved music in any-
any form really. And I still do. I still sing and erm we have a music
group at church but of course that’s- i- that’s lo- current at the
moment but me parents, my father was born in **anon** and my mother
was born in erm- down erm in Salford in **anon**. So erm I don’t know
why me- me father came to live in Salford but erm my mother’s never
been anywhere- no she was born here. And erm I’ve got a picture of her
when she was a little girl. So she’d- she was born in nineteen hundred
and two so it’s quite and old EOS And if you ever want any old
pictures I’ve got them. Erm- erm we didn’t move house at all. Erm we
went to live in that shop as I say with my grandma and the next move
we made was when she died and they sold the house, my mother and
father, and we went to live in **anon**. We were still in Salford and
erm Keith **anon** was in the army weren’t y- nati- doing his national
sh- service. And erm we married from the house in **anon** didn’t we.
Well I was in the army. Yes he was in the army. Because erm- erm then
i- it was a s- sergeant said to me- he said- I told him that I was en-
engaged- to be married when I came out of the army. He said ‘well
really you’d be better marrying because you’ll get marriage
allowance’. So w- we arranged didn’t we- I’d been in the army about-
and I was twenty one. And y- Keith **anon** was twenty two when we got
married. Mm. So we did erm get married- and erm and of course Brenda
**anon** got the erm- the erm marriage allowance and saved it up and
we had a nice little nest egg EOS when- when I came out. And that’s
when I came up to **anon** from **anon** with a friend who was looking
at some houses erm on the front there, near **anon**. They were
building those semis r- just round the corner when you go towards the
Trafford Centre. There’s some semis there- and erm **anon** and she
went to look at those and then we came to look at these on **anon**
and I liked these. No we- we brought them up didn’t we and y- your
father’s- No, no that was after. That was after. No I brought erm I
can’t remember her name now. No you weren’t very friendly with her but
then- I saw these and went back home and told Keith **anon** and
that’s- that’s when we came to live in **anon**. In- in th- In this
house in **anon**. Yeah. Fifty five years ago. And we- we paid one
thousand eight hundred and fifty pounds. No one thousand six hundred
and fifty pounds. Oh one thousand six hundred and fifty pounds for it.
Sixteen hundred and fifty. Eh. It’s amazing isn’t it? Yeah. It is. But
we brought a friend with us who was my son- my eldest son’s godfather
and they lived in **anon**. And he was a very astute man and a very
good man and a- we really were very fond of him. And he came with us
to look at them and my dad was very much against us buying it. He said
‘you’ve got a milstone round your neck’. That’s what he said. But we
were very happy living with your parents. They had that big house in
**anon** and- we were very, very happy. And erm my mother- and he- my
mother thought the world of Keith **anon** and he thought the world of
her. Erm but erm **anon** this friend of ours came to talk me dad
round to say that he had bought his house and it was three hundred and
forty EOS And that was- And that was a milstone round their neck but
it wasn’t anymore. And he said eventually it will be beneficial to
them. So that’s- he talked my dad round and- Well the thing was you
could rent a house then. You could rent houses. There was- there was
plenty to rent. I mean not like n- not like today. But we just liked
these houses. We thought they were absolutely lovely and erm m- m-
what it- what was it we hadn’t got money for? Erm- Oh the erm- and my
dad lent us the twenty five pounds. we didn’t have the money for the
erm the rest of the money for the EOS It was a hundred pound deposit.
We’d paid forty but there was sixty outstanding and w- we k- kept
coming round and having a look and it’s- once they got the roof on
they wanted the balance. And I thought- the came and they’d got the
roof on. And by the Keith **anon** wasn’t a mechanic. He was working
for me father who was a painter and decorator and you had to have e-
eleven pounds a week wages. They wouldn’t take the wife then. It was
just the husband it- you know if you were working that didn’t matter.
And I was earning ten pounds. And he was earning ten and me- my dad
said to Keith **anon** ‘well tell them you’re earning eleven but I
can’t afford to give you that’. And he- he lent us the money for the
erm- But when you think of those figures. But you see it just- it goes
on and on. Yeah it does. I meant when- when you get older you’ll think
well fancy those prices that we paid then. So erm yeah. Erm in your
opinion how has the community changed in recent years? Well I think it
changed tr- tremendously. Tremendously. There’s a lot of terrible
things happen now that I don’t think did happen then. Children are-
are not safe anymore like they used to be. You can’t afford to take
your eyes off them can you. and everything is so expensive to take
them anywhere. I mean my son has just been away with four and he said
when you go in a- just for a coffee. It’s six coff- well five coffees
or five drinks. And it’s so expensive isn’t it. But erm everything
has- has really gone up in price. The most important changes have
taken place in your town. Well when we came round here from erm- from
**anon** we thought we were coming to live in the country- In the
country. It was beautiful. It was so quiet- You could park anywhere in
Urmston and erm- but now I think it’s- And we liked Urmston as it was.
It- well w- we did yeah. But I mean now I think they’ve just made a
mess of it. because it’s part finished and- and they’re not saying-
they’re saying until they- I think they- somebody said that they’ve
run out of money the developers. Yeah I think they have. And erm- so
it’s just a mess I think. I think they expected more people to erm buy
those apartments- in the centre, but then- Yeah and they haven’t done.
No. No. No they haven’t. And I think they’re the ugliest looking
things. We only said the other day look at all that horrible wood.
Where’s the design in that? And then of course a build-up of erm- I’m
not objecting to the Trafford Centre but the Chill Factor and erm all
these big things that keep going up. It’s just lost it’s erm I don’t
know, prettiness really. It used to be a pretty village more or less
Davyhulme. And I know things have got to progress but I don’t- I hate
all these great big things that are going up. And erm I don’t know.
Local people- but we remember the first erm- We remember the- shopping
centre being built in Urmston. The precinct there. And it was nice. It
was nice before. It was a nice precinct that. It- no it was nice
before that they did that I thought. It was quite quaint. I’ve s- I’ve
got loads of pictures of that. How it used to be . But erm- But I do
think there’s a lot of community things happening now like erm the man
that owns **anon** that **anon**. Now f- I think it’s the third year
now that he’s put this community EOS sort of a carnival type thing
hasn’t he. In the grammar school gardens and I think- we went because
my granddaughters were dancing. They go to **anon**. And they were
doing this dancing group and we went to watch them and I just thought
it was lovely. All the people- local people all mingling with one
another. And I really- I r- it really uplifted me to see them all
having a good time and there was no trouble. Erm and I think the
community spirit here is better and hope it will EOS Erm the carnival
on Saturday- there’s the carnival on Saturday and for the first time
there’s erm an ecumenical church tent being EOS And they’re giving
free teas and cakes. In fact we’re involved with EOS And it’s the
first time they’ve done that and erm hope- hopefully well they will be
telling people all about the things that go on in all the churches.
Hopefully we might get a few more people to come. But it’s still a
community thing and I think- Gets people together yeah. it’s a good
thing for the community EOS Yeah I li- I- Yeah and erm there’s not
really- when you look at the television and see all the horrible
things that happen in other towns. I don’t know I’ve never heard of
anything horrible - No I haven’t EOS happening in Urmston at night. So
I just hope that erm- there’s- I think there’s quite a long of thing
to ha- to do in this community if you’re willing to erm- you know
different erm- erm what- what can I call them, different groups. So
you needn’t be bored. There’s lots to do really. If you go out and
look for it. What’s your- do you agree with me? You see- Yes I d-
we’re very involved in church so I’ve always got something to do. I
mean I’m going out tonight. No I’m going out tomorrow and erm going
out next week all the meetings start so I’ll be out about three nights
a week which is erm- is very good. Mm. Right . I think it’s very sad
that erm TJ Hughes has gone from Stretford. I think it’ll be a- make a
big difference to Stretford erm- erm town centre. Erm cos I like- I
like that erm shopping precinct. It’s pleasant and it’s warm and- erm
it’s somewhere for people to meet. I don’t know what’s going to happen
there. Did you ever get into trouble at school? Going back a bit now
aren’t EOS Does it matter? No of course it doesn’t. No it doesn’t
matter? Yep . Did you get into trouble? I didn’t- Yeah- oh no you
didn’t, no. I was perfect EOS Hey we- we used to c- I went to **anon**
School first and from there I went to **anon** school, **anon**. And
on the way home from when we were EOS erm **anon** the erm- we used to
pass this house that had a cherry tree hanging over the wall. And ev-
everyday you passed it seemed to get redder and redder these cherries
and me and my friends one day we thought I think we’ll have some of
those . And we climbed on the wall and just pulled a little bunch down
and we both had one each. And they were horrible. But we didn’t-
unknown to us there was policeman behind us who EOS and took us back
to school. And erm the next morning we had to come out in front of
the- all the assembly and the pair of us were brought out to the front
and- and the teacher erm- the teacher said- the Headteacher said I’d
have- we’d have to go to his room after and of course we were- our
heads down and we both got the cane on both hands. And when we used to
walk past that house with those cherry EOS we used to have our hands
in our pockets . Yeah well I think there again- I think it’s gone from
the sublime to EOS Yes you’re not allowed to touch- Because I think
it’s digusting now that children have got no respect- for policemen
and really a lot of them have not got any respect for EOS And they try
and blame everybody bar the parents. I know. The riots were terrible
weren’t they. Oh that was terrible. Well what’s uplifted me **anon**
was the m- the all those young people going in and cleaning up. I
thought that was wonderful EOS Yeah. That was brilliant. And some of
them looked- I thought golly you’d- You know so you can’t tell by how
people look. No you’re right. But I do think it’s erm you know that
being allowed to throw stones at policemen. I was frightened to death
of policemen. Oh yes. Y- I- that was silly but I’d rather it be like
that- than like it is now. I mean policemen are there to erm to keep-
To protect the- to protect people- protect the public. Yeah th- and
the public. And they get a terrible lot of bad pub- publicity. And I
know maybe there are some sadistic policemen but most of them are very
good and decent men. And erm I just think it’s awful that children
should be taught to have more respect. Erm and I still blame the
parents for a lot of these children. Yes it’s sad really. I- And I
think a lot of these children as well are from broken homes and
they’re living in erm social erm- erm they’re- they’re under the care
of the erm- Trafford. And erm I’ve heard reports that they just run
wild and you’re not allowed to touch them. You’re not- if- they know
that if you touch them they can report you. And I mean I used to get
lots of smacks off my mother and it never did me any harm at all. And
erm I can always remember when I was- my mother had just given me a
good hiding and she’d gone into the kitchen and I walked behind her
and pulled my tongue out. And she turned round and I got another one.
And I said ‘what was that for?’ ‘because’ she said ‘you’ve just pulled
your tongue out haven’t you?’. And years after I said ‘how did you
know?’. She said ‘I just knew you were going to do that’. But we end-
we were always the best of friends. Really good pals. Erm I can stop
that- this now if-