One two three. We went to **anon** school. I did get into trouble
once, it was something to do with a bird. And someb- I think the boy
that got me into trouble, somebody called **anon** who lived on
**anon**. But I can’t remember exactly how it all came about. But I
know **anon** wasn’t very happy. Oh I got the cane for it. How old
were you then? who gave you that? **anon**? He was a bit handy with
his cane, wasn’t he? Cos we had shelters didn’t we? yes, air raids, mm
EOS Well you wouldn’t in the dark, no EOS But I quite enjoyed
**anon**. Was there one called **anon**? I think she was a favourite.
**anon** with the strap in the corner. She used to frighten me to
death. But she was a very, very good teacher. Was her name **anon**?
She used to play the piano. And if we didn’t sing- she taught us
‘Jerusalem’ and if we didn’t sing it correctly, oh my word! She was
very strict. No right channel EOS Well I think-. I remember my first
day. Cos I was five when I went. Right channel resumes) EOS And I
think the teacher was called **anon** EOS And I can picture the
classroom. And our **anon** younger than me, she cried because she
wanted to come as well. So she started as well, shortly afterwards. No
right channel EOS Erm- but then our **anon** had appendicitis M did
she EOS and she was rushed to hospital. And she missed quite a bit of
schooling because of it. It was in those days, yes. Cos they were
frightened it might be EOS Because **anon**, my dad’s sister, she had
died at fourteen EOS with peritonitis. Erm and we always felt that she
never quite caught up, because she missed-. The grounding, you know,
the basics. She’s alright now but that’s the way we felt. Right
channel resumes EOS We used to go on coach trips, Stratford upon Avon.
Erm I didn’t go to Scarborough. Erm, round Wales. Me dad used to take
us to New Brighton on the bus. But that’s as far as it went in those
days, cos people didn’t go on holiday, did they really? Yes I remember
Blackpool. A no go area. But having said that, I mean- our school
days- we never went short. We were never short of food or anything
like that. We made the most of what we had, erm EOS I’ve never really
taken to celery. I eat it because **anon** puts it in EOS but I can’t
say that it’s one of me favourite things. And sweets, when you think
nowadays the shops are absolutely full of EOS I suppose we were lucky
that erm my aunties were still at home and they gave us their sweet
coupons. And we used to go to **anon**. And er the main thing we had
were Barley sugars. And occasionally a treat, with a crunchie. But it
was- that was all you could get in those days. And then there was the
powdered egg, Canned coffee, ooh. Oh that was nice, yeah. over in tho-
yes EOS It’d take weeks! Oh I don’t remember those. I never had those.
Well even now I don’t think their chocolate is as nice as ours.
Because **anon** and **anon** love Thorntons, **anon** in particular
you know, the erm special toffee. And when me mum used to visit erm
**anon** in Chicago. Take some decent cadburies chocolates. yes not as
nice as hours. yes and you felt different. I don’t remember that
Maureen **anon**. I don’t remember. Yes, yes, mm EOS I know, well-.
Cos I know when people got married- I th- **anon** got married at the
end of the war, and it wasn’t a white outfit, it was sort of a two EOS
with a great big hat. She always wore a hat didn’t she? oh your poor
mum! But we had to do, didn’t we? I did the er- most of the errands.
and we used to go to **anon** on the other side of the trinity. Erm-.
And everything you know was sort of weighed and very precise. Well we
did, didn’t we? We never went short. Never went short. Yes and yet
it’s not done us any harm, has it? When you think EOS I don’t know
that I can touch my toes. Mind you I’ve never tried but I’m sure I
can’t. I’m sure I can’t. Oh dear. Oh I haven’t. Well I have half, the
bottom. But I had mine out at twenty six. Because I had terrible
teeth. Look at her laughing! Oh yeah and- well-. With a bit of help
EOS Absolutely. Erm, yes. Ooh no I just- I couldn’t put those in, I
couldn’t mess with my eyes. I need my glasses for reading but I just
couldn’t- if I had to wear them all the time, I’d have to wear them.
Just couldn’t put contact lenses in. **anon** does. But I couldn’t. Oh
I’m sure. Really, yes. Ooh hands going near your eyes. mm, Explaining
it to him. Because children generally don’t like wearing glasses. Oh
they are yes. Yes that’s right. I mean on the whole I think my school
days were happy days. But then after **anon** we parted company didn’t
we? I went to **anon** school. mm, yes. And I suppose I did sports at
the grammar school. Erm hockey, rounders, athletics. School choir. But
I m- that’s a bit like that now. All gone by the EOS Did they? Well
they had netball but I- I think being on the short side, I wasn’t very
good at netball. I was better at hockey. And yet funny, my best
friend, who was taller than me, you know, She was good at the high
jump. I did the long jump. She did netball, I did hockey. We just did
opposite things. And I think that’s partly to do with her being so
much taller than EOS Now then. Funniest memories from when we were
young. yeah- whereabouts in Yorkshire? Is it the reservoir that you
see when you’re on the M-sixty two? Oh was he? Do you know I thought
it would’ve been more than that, Maureen EOS Looked after them,
brought them up. Sad yes yeah. Well I can still picture your mother
and father, you know- big EOS Tall, and I know when I used to go
shopping in Peel Green to the butchers and your mum would be walking
along, and I’d say, ‘how’s Maureen **anon**? Another little girl!’ EOS
another little girl, Yes. Yes that’s right. Funny that. Just I do
remember when we used to go to church and you were in the choir, like
**anon** was in the choir. And used to go to **anon**, Christmas Eve,
carol singing. And your Mum, I remember one year in particular your
mum gave us all erm hot chocolate before we went. yes one Christmas
eve. Yeah, she gave us erm hot chocolate before we all set off for
church. Happy days those, really. But you and **anon**-. Well you
couldn’t- I think. The one thing I remember getting at Christmas was a
very nice- and it was off a friend of my mum and dad’s. A pencil box
with a- that’s erm roller top. But, you know, you come down Christmas
day, and your presents would be on the table. There’d be mine,
**anon** and **anon**. Because that was it, wasn’t it, and a bit of
fruit? Whatever- you know. mm, oh a tangerine. Yes. I- I wasn’t a doll
person, I did have one and I didn’t like it. I did have a nice doll’s
pram. And bicycle that me granddad bought. But it wasn’t at Christmas,
it was sort of later on. When you could afford it. You know cos they
worked- worked hard. Oh I don’t remember that but I remember the first
one. I was just thinking that. Oh I remember the doll’s hospital.
She’s a mutual friend, **anon**. We went to school with her, didn’t
we? none at all EOS Oh what a shame and your mum had gone to all that
trouble. Something- What we couldn’t have. I can’t remember when I was
little, no. Because I was three in thirty nine. So when the bananas
came, erm-. really does taste like. They could’ve given you half each.
Never bothered you, no I mean-. I was the first grandchild, spoilt.
And then there was **anon** and then **anon** was the first grandson.
And he was spoilt. But because I suppose my nanna and granddad-
granddad in particular with **anon** I was- me nanna was for me. Me
mum and dad tried to make it up to **anon**. They gave her more. Like
I went to the grammar school, **anon** went to the grammar school, so
erm- made sure that **anon** went to **anon**. And got a city and
guilds in erm-. And then of course, **anon** and **anon** EOS **anon**
came along later on. Ooh a lot of money in those days. mm, crown as
well. mm, cos we used to joke, you know me mum made a lot of our
clothes for **anon** and I. And of course we’d say- course our
**anon**’s came from Kendal Mills EOS But erm- yes, yes. No, me mum
and dad didn’t really, erm. Erm, because er- we’ve got a photograph of
the three of us and a friend of **anon** had knitted these fair-isle
cardigans in two ply. **anon** and I had cardigans, **anon** had erm-
I think it was a v-neck EOS And me mum made sure that the three of us
had the same. Yes, yeah. Tried to treat us all the same. But erm- now
then, what did I help out in the house a lot? Well I had to do. It’s
strange nobody likes drying isn’t it? Oh I don’t remember washing up-.
Persil, no washing up liq- I don’t remember washing up liquid. But
when you think no washing up liquid, no washing machine, or things
like that. Green blocks of fairy soap. mm, and then they- And ironed
on a tuesday. Yes, routine, routine EOS We had cellars. Oh the sirens
yes. yes we had our own sort of shelter at four-two-seven. At six-six-
three you used to go down in the cellar. But erm I remember my nan, my
nanna and **anon** heard the sirens. Went down into the cellar.
**anon** came home from work to find them in the cellar. ‘What you
doing in the cellar?’ ‘Well you know, the sirens went.’ They’d gone
down for the all-clear, hadn’t they? and they’d been there all
morning. Little things like that stick in your mind, don’t they? Well
it’s true isn’t it? It is, because **anon** always wanted- he did his
national service and always wanted to stay in the army. Yes he loved
it. Absolutely loved it. Because his mother and father said, ‘if you
stay in the army, that’s it you’ve no mother and father.’ EOS Because-
well they thought it was erm a reflection on them that he wanted to be
away from home. But they never really got on, he got on better with
his father than EOS but then his father would say, ‘well if you’d
stayed in the forces, you would never have met Vivienne **anon**.’ EOS
And he said, ‘well I’m sure we would have done,’ EOS ‘because we were
meant to be together.’ EOS So it’s funny how things work out, isn’t
it? With a terrible mother. Oh she was- . Yes and yet she was in a way
possessive, and yet she hadn’t got a lot of time for him. So I could
never weigh it all up. Nothing ever made EOS Erm and his father was
away a lot on business. You know and if he did anything wrong, ‘wait
‘til your father comes home!’ EOS And one incident, he’d been smoking
when he was about ten or eleven, with a friend. Friend had a- parents
had a pub and they went on the flat roof and he was so ill. And of
course his mother, ‘wait ‘til your father comes home!’ and then when
his father came home told him, ‘aren’t you going to give him a good
hiding?’ So he said, ‘he’s learnt EOS And he never really smoked
cigarettes again. Occasionally, if **anon** lit up he’d say, ‘ooh I
just fancy one,’ and he’d have one. But he never went out and bought a
packet of cigarettes. mm, no me dad smoked but me mum couldn’t stand
it. Couldn’t stand it. I’ve never smoked. **anon** has smoked but gave
it up some years ago. Erm **anon** has the odd one, more a social-
doesn’t sit at home smoking. **anon** doesn’t smoke, **anon** doesn’t
smoke. Well they used to say a drop of whiskey at night is good for
you. That’s my excuse if I have one. It’s good for me! cos you read
all these things in the paper, you know and glass of red wine. I know
that was in the paper the other day. Don’t like beer. Don’t like beer
at all. No. mm, everything’s to hand isn’t it, yes EOS mm, I think
you’re better placed than I am, in Irlam, because the buses are about-
they’re supposed to be every ten minutes but they’re not EOS and
there’s only really one into Manchester. And there’s another one that
goes through Manchester into the Trafford centre, or the Trafford
centre into Manchester. And they’re about the only two. You can, yeah,
yeah EOS In John Lewis, yes, mm EOS It is, it’s no problem. Well I go
into Manchester erm, normally every Thursday to meet two friends I
used to work with many years ago at ICI. And then I meet another
friend every other week on a Wednesday, that I used to work with at
ICI. So but normally I park in Marks and Spencers and then on a
Thursday have lunch in Marks, just a sandwich. One friend moans the
whole of the time EOS about the quality and the standard and the
noise, cos it is noisy in Marks and Spencers. Now if that particular
friend doesn’t come, er **anon** and I will go EOS which is erm an
Austrian patisserie. Ooh you should see the cakes! Oh lovely. Erm then
when I go with **anon** we go to the **anon**. Where you can have a
three course lunch for six pounds fifty. And I might walk through the
Arndale centre EOS erm, couple of times recently I have had a bit of a
walk round the Arndale but I’ve been looking for specific shops. And
there everything seems that little bit bigger EOS than in the Trafford
centre. And on Sunday, **anon** and I and **anon** we’d taken **anon**
back to w- erm the station, erm we went into EOS the Arndale and I
think- I can’t remember what we were looking for. But I was surprised,
it was a Sunday and I was able to park in Marks and Spencers car park.
It’s not cheap, parking in- and it does add- it adds to me lunch when
I go. I used to go on the bus. But you get on the bus and then there’s
these girls that get on with EOS dripping in cheap jewellery, not a
ring in sight, and oh. If smoking was allowed they’d be EOS I’m not a
snob EOS but you know, you do have certain standards don’t you? I
think it’s the way we were brought up Maureen **anon**, respect. In
those days. You respected your teachers and- and we went to church and
Sunday school, didn’t we? And then the pictures after church on a
Sunday night sometimes, the EOS When you think about it. mm. And we’d
done our duty, hadn’t we? we’d been to church. Yes because rationing
went on for quite some time, didn’t it? Yes it went on for some time.
Or thought we were going to get. Because there was the air base in
Warrington wasn’t there? Burtonwood EOS erm and I know a friend of my
auntie’s went out with one of the EOS and er- he used to take to erm
**anon**, girlfriend, loads of sweets EOS So you know we had sweets.
in that way. But it was a long time before things were really back to
normal. And I know we had a chicken nearly ever week and it was a
friend of my granddad’s and me dad’s, used to get these live chickens
EOS and they were in Pendleton, and I had to go on the bus and bring
back EOS Alive Maureen **anon**! And I’d no choice, I had to do it. It
used to be in a bag, and EOS I’d be sitting on the bus, terrified in
case it made a noise. Our **anon** would say that he did it, but if he
did it, I don’t remember. It was me, because I was the eldest. He
might have come on the odd occasion to keep me company. But in the
main, it was me. So we always had-. Oh once me mum had killed it and
cleaned it and everything. And it- mainly boiling . And she used to
make beautiful chicken soup. And erm our **anon** always had the best
of the chicken. And me mum would hide it under his rice, so that
**anon** and I couldn’t see it. But that’s how it was, he got the
best. And er- I mean we laugh about it, and the thing is, although we
know that he was in a way favoured, it never, has never- There’s never
been any jealousy among us. Between the five of us, at all really. No,
no motorways. Yeah, vegetables, mm EOS The Lake District. mm, I was
looking at the Lake District on the telly the other night, erm- did
you watch it? Yes, I’ve seen it before but I watched it again. Erm and
I thought, ‘oh we did have some nice little breaks up in the lake
district.’ EOS mmhmm, yes, in the middle bit EOS I’ve often wondered
if anybody lived there. Is it, mm, mm EOS mm, mm, yes, yeah. swam the
channel. mm, what about hat older lady swimming it? And kept going off
course? Yeah and I’ve forgot- I’ve forgotten how long it took her, but
she did it. But it took her hours and hours. Hours and hours and
hours. No it was nice, watching the Lake District, yes EOS Ooh, the
very first time we went on the Friday afternoon, it was raining so
hard. ‘Oh what have we done, why have we come?’ But then Saturday and
Sunday it was glorious. Mm with the snow and everything. I mean that’s
why I can’t understand the reservoirs being so low. When we’ve had so
much snow. I know when we used to drive over to Harrogate erm on the
M-sixty- two, we always looked at one reservoir, ‘oh it’s a bit low
this y- this week.’ EOS Do you know the one I mean? Yes and er we’d be
sort of, ‘oh there’s going to be a water EOS our **anon** had to defy
the hosepipe ban before. Had to defy the hosepipe ban. Because our
**anon** got all dog’s poo on EOS And so he had to swill them down. I
never thought about that EOS Well I think so, Maureen **anon** too. I
think it’s worse. I think it’s silly. I can understand them saying the
hosepipe ban for washing cars at EOS but you can still- Oh yes you can
still take them to these places. I mean the gardeners that I have,
**anon** said that he’d looked it up on the erm internet EOS and it
was so complicated, what you could, what you couldn’t do, that in the
end, he gave up. United utilities saying one thing, somebody else
saying something else, and he thought, ‘just don’t get it.’ EOS Yeah,
yeah, yeah. mm, c- It will, it will cos they said to me on Tuesday, I
said, ‘I know what you’re going to say,’ I said, ‘well you see it has
rained so I thought to myself ‘I don’t need to water them,’ EOS But
you still need to water them, so-.