Do you want my name? Go on then. You start then dear. What’s her f- I
lived across the f- there was a football pitch. I lived at one end EOS
He- he worked for himself. He had his own business. Oh no he didn’t
EOS I lived across yes- across the pitch. I- I didn’t smoke then but I
erm- I worked as a erm motor mechanic and the lads there, there was
quite a lot of them smoked and you couldn’t get because they were
under the counter. ‘Would you go and ask your girlfriend’s grandma’ .
Erm would she let us have some cigarettes. Which she used to like- let
us have a few packets now and again. Not like there is today. She was
a very strict- yeah. B: And it never ever did me any harm. Erm and I
did have to help out in because we used to stone the steps. We used to
stone the step of the stone the window ledges of the house- The back
yard yeah. What did I do? Well I used to pla- play a lot of football.
I used to love football and of course facing the house was this big
EOS int- in- incidentally- it wasn’t- I was a cinder pitch really.
When you fell down it- it used to take part of your knee cap off. So
constant- constantly you had black marks on your knees cinders had
gone in. And erm but I used to love playing football and erm I used to
also EOS Swimming in these- When you think about it yes. There was
they were like erm they were like big clay pits filled with water and
we used to go swimming in there. I’d- Many a time I’d cut my foot, my
legs because there was broken bottle- There was old prams in there.
When I think about it now. All the- all the- Oh erm th- what’s- the
elderber- and they hit erm- **anon** prison that night. Putting the
water in it was running out. They used to be gas. Well they were, they
were ga- Erm what I used to do was erm when I think about it now I
never let my sons do that. But erm I used to erm when the air raids
were EOS I used to go out with a- a bucket and a pair of coal tongs
and I’d be picking shrapnel up. You’d- you’d- you’d be s- listening
ye- and you’d hear it going down the road. And you could see it was
white hot. When I think that really that my parents let me go out-
picking the sh- the shrapnel- the pieces of shrapnel up. I had buckets
and buckets of it. And we used to swap it with one another you know.
It- it- if it had German erm- erm- emblem on you used to erm swap it
for something else. Incendiary bombs had the German mark on. Erm I- I
th- I thought it was great- Terrified yeah. But on this football pitch
facing they dug it all up and put the biggest air raid shelter you’ve
ever seen on the ground. Yeah. And we used to go in there. It- it was
terrible. It was t- Oh the- the smell. But we- we had a- one built in
the back erm- the back yard. A- anderson ones. They- Oh that was the
Morrison yes. Yes that was the biggest . I think you were safer then
than you are today. Y- you never heard of people being murdered and
stabbed and- and like I say you used- you used- you used to t- travel
quite a way on your own EOS young. Going to school. Which is quite a
way from- It was a long way yes. We- talking about holidays we erm w-
never had any holidays. Th- th- the erm- oh switch it off. No I- I
never had- I never went on holiday. The only holiday I’ve ever had
was- I- I did. Yes I had erm four brothers and one sister. And erm-
but we never had holidays. Only days out to Blackpool. But my- one of
my brothers- I had four half b- brothers. Step brothers. And erm he-
he was a mechanic and erm he- he- he used to do quite well and he said
‘if you save your spends up’ which was about in today’s money about
five p a week- erm ‘you can come away with me’ and he had a m- a car
which in the- those days was fantastic you know. If somebody had a
motorcar- going away on holiday. And that was about the best holiday I
ever had then- as- as child cos I never went away again after that.
Like I say we used to go, now and again they’d take us to Blackpool on
the train. For a day. But erm that was it. Th- th- they- c- cooked it
for you yeah. Yeah th- it was a- yeah we called it a rec. I always
had- Yeah go on I’ll- Oh parents from. Well erm my parents erm my
father worked at EOS Oh my- my- m- m- my erm mother’s family originate
from **anon**. That’s where erm- that’s where they were erm born. But
my father Erm, **anon** which was at Gorton. **anon** were locomotive
engineers and he used to cy- Steam trains and that. And he used to erm
cycle from erm **anon** all the way to Gorton every- and back again
which is a heck of a way . Like I say in- in regards to toys I’ve had
very, very little toys. But my father had some cowboys and indians
made. He- he g- he got the erm the chaps at work th- that make the erm
moulds in- they made these erm moulds for soldiers and cowboys and he-
he made- he made them out of solid lead. When you think now, I used t-
they weren’t painted when- and I got them for Christmas and when I
think I used to play with lead soldiers . You know which is really
harmful for you. But that was the only erm toys I had and I had them
for years I was playing with those. Well I was in the army. Because
erm- erm then i- it was a s- sergeant said to me- he said- I told him
that I was en- engaged- to be married when I came out of the army. He
said ‘well really you’d be better marrying because you’ll get marriage
allowance’. So w- we arranged didn’t we- I’d been in the army about-
So we did erm get married- and erm and of course Brenda **anon** got
the erm- the erm marriage allowance and saved it up and we had a nice
little nest egg EOS when- when I came out. No we- we brought them up
didn’t we and y- your father’s- Fifty five years ago. And we- we paid
one thousand eight hundred and fifty pounds. Oh one thousand six
hundred and fifty pounds for it. But we were very happy living with
your parents. They had that big house in **anon** and- And that was-
Well the thing was you could rent a house then. You could rent houses.
There was- there was plenty to rent. I mean not like n- not like
today. Oh the erm- we didn’t have the money for the erm the rest of
the money for the EOS It was a hundred pound deposit. We’d paid forty
but there was sixty outstanding and w- we k- kept coming round and
having a look and it’s- once they got the roof on they wanted the
balance. And I thought- the came and they’d got the roof on. And I was
earning ten pounds. And he- he lent us the money for the erm- You
can’t afford to take your eyes off them can you. The most important
changes have taken place in your town. Well when we came round here
from erm- from **anon** we thought we were coming to live in the
country- It was so quiet- You could park anywhere in Urmston and erm-
but now I think it’s- It- well w- we did yeah. but we remember the
first erm- shopping centre being built in Urmston. The precinct there.
It was nice before. It- no it was nice before that they did that I
thought. It was quite quaint. I’ve s- I’ve got loads of pictures of
that. How it used to be . But erm- Gets people together yeah. Yeah I
li- I- Yes I d- Mm. Right . Did you ever get into trouble at school?
Going back a bit now aren’t EOS Does it matter? No it doesn’t matter?
Yep . Yeah- oh no you didn’t, no. Hey we- we used to c- I went to
**anon** School first and from there I went to **anon** school,
**anon**. And on the way home from when we were EOS erm **anon** the
erm- we used to pass this house that had a cherry tree hanging over
the wall. And ev- everyday you passed it seemed to get redder and
redder these cherries and me and my friends one day we thought I think
we’ll have some of those . And we climbed on the wall and just pulled
a little bunch down and we both had one each. And they were horrible.
But we didn’t- unknown to us there was policeman behind us who EOS and
took us back to school. And erm the next morning we had to come out in
front of the- all the assembly and the pair of us were brought out to
the front and- and the teacher erm- the teacher said- the Headteacher
said I’d have- we’d have to go to his room after and of course we
were- our heads down and we both got the cane on both hands. And when
we used to walk past that house with those cherry EOS we used to have
our hands in our pockets . Yes you’re not allowed to touch- Yeah. That
was brilliant. Oh yes. Y- To protect the- protect the public. Yeah th-
Yes it’s sad really. I-