 One, two, three. One two three. Yep. That’s fine. Er shall I start?
Are we on then? is that what I was doing- right, then I dunno Games
you played when you were a kid. Oh, skipping Erm there was one called
erm Rallyvo. Used to throw a ball at the wall er and try and hit you
with it, I think EOS Hopscotch. That was always a good one. Used to
play horses EOS me friends used to gallop round the playground. That
was always a good one. And we used to play- What, on top of each
other? no. Just used to chase and make this noise . I don’t
particularly remember them doing that in my school. What did you play?
From morning to night. Erm right, erm-. Amd we used to play on the
railway. That’s not good. On the sidings. Pinching things from
Kelloggs. Stoning trains, was always a good one. Oh my god what?
Putting stones on the track. Oh my god! That’s terrible. Setting fire
to the grass, that was always good fun. That’s what we used to do as
kids. Oh we didn’t. Kids are mollycoddled now they couldn’t go
anywhere near the railway. Well my very favourite game was playing
school in my friend’s shed. That used to be brilliant. Used to be four
of us. Great times. I was always the teacher. Cos I was the oldest .
Anyway, did you help out around the house a lot, when you were a kid?
Never did anything whatsoever. My mum used to do the lot. Well we did.
I wouldn’t be in the house anyway cos I’d be out playing. Football. On
the railway. Setting fire to the grass. On the canal playing with my
air rifle. Another thing kids couldn’t do these days. Shooting things.
Smashing bottles, killing birds. Sparrows, I’m surprised you’re not in
prison now. Anything that moved, basically. Each other sometimes. I’m
surprised you’re not in prison now. Ah it’s my education that kept me
out. friend’s dog, little Jack Russell. If I was allowed to go. Always
cliques in gangs. Some people can do things, some other people can’t.
Bigger lads always used to go, sometimes we could tag along. That was
EOS killing rabbits, yeah. Watching the dog get them. Oh my god.
Flushing them out with the ferrets. Yeah that’s what you do, put a
ferret down the hole, wait for it to flush the rabbit out, and then
the dog would go and get the EOS Oh my god Right then. While you were
playing school, we couldn’t wait to get out of school. And you’re
finishing school and going to play it. Loved it, it was great fun Big
thing was getting all the- it used to be a really big thing if you
used to get a new pad and pencils and pens and- used to share them all
out and used to set homework and- It was good fun, used to love it.
Had a blackboard in there as well, and- cos I was the oldest, and that
was a time, I remember running home, I was only about ten or eleven
and I was in a rush, they were all waiting for me at the door. And I
tripped over a EOS over the banister, and fell down the stairs from
top to bottom and broke my arm. Remember that, yeah I was about ten,
ten or eleven years old when that happened. No permanent damage done
then. Didn’t hit your head did you? Yes I did. I did hit my head, but-
Ah well maybe that explains a few things then. there was no lasting
damage. No lasting damage anyway. So you didn’t do anything to help
out at home? Nothing at all? We had to, to get spends. So if we didn’t
do our jobs, we didn’t get spends. End of. Used to help an elderly
neighbour for cash. God what a different childhood we had. I- I take
it you used to help out then did you? An awful lot. Yeah, yes I did.
ooh, sorry, I’ll just get that EOS Erm what is your best or funniest
memory from when you were a child? But- but what did you do then?
Helping out. What at home? Yeah, you’re saying, ‘oh well yeah I helped
out a lot,’ but what did you do to help out? We used to have to Ewbank
the carpet, cos I wasn’t allowed to use the hoover cos I used into
bang into the furniture too much with it. What’s a Ewbank? A Ewbank,
what’s a Ewbank? A Ewbank- A Ewbank is like a hoover with no motor.
Used to push it up and down, up and down, up and down. What sucking,
making sucking noises like a horsey game? No, no No used to just push
it up and down up and down, it used to hoover everything but without a
motor. You- you just- It had brushes on it. So I used to have to
Ewbank the carpet and then we used to have to polish, but EOS Did you
make the noise of the hoover when you were Ewbanking? No we didn’t
used to make the noise of the hoover, no we didn’t. Erm, yeah
polishing, washing pots. But we had to do that properly. Otherwise, if
we didn’t do it properly, then we didn’t get our EOS She used to dock
us money. Erm-. Do you think Dyson could make a Ewbank? oh n- now no
I’m talking about in th- in the seventies. Everyone had a Ewbank. Did
you not? I don’t remember one. I remember you had a Ewbank. How do you
know? You wasn’t there! But you and me have been together thirty odd
years, so yeah I remember when me and you were courting. You had a
Ewbank in your house. I’m sure it was orange. Well I never u- or that
could’ve been mine EOS well I never used it. Well you wouldn’t have
used it because you didn’t do anything to help your mum. But- yes you
did! he used to make fairy cakes with his mum. That’s not helping me
mum. Well what is it then? That was making food EOS for me to eat. So
did you used to cook with your mum? Occasionally. That was-. And what
did you used to make? Ah. And what happened, what did your brothers
used to do to you? Used to tease me. And they used to-? Well the older
one would. And called him a girl. Yeah they all wanted some of the
fairy cakes. Wouldn’t say that now they see- now they see Gordon
Ramsey they wouldn’t be saying that, would they? No you’re quite
right. If I’d have followed that path maybe I wouldn’t be here now.
Bigger and better things. I might’ve been a better cook than you, I
probably am a better cook than you, but that’s-. I’m a professional!
That’s something else. So then this will be an easy one for you.
Because er- your grandparents- did your grandparents ever tell you any
stories? Lots and lots of stories. What, your granddad told you
stories? Yes he did. My grandfather was known as the storyteller. In
our house, wasn’t he? About how he was lost at sea in the merchant
navy for a year, and presumed dead. and then he just turned up. Wasn’t
during the war, was it? Yes it was, was it not in the war? I can’t
remember. My granddad was **anon** they lived in er EOS In some
countries they call it deserting, don’t they? He did not desert! He
did not desert. He wasn’t- he was captured, his ship got blown up and
they were rescued and- and then they lived somewhere, I can’t
remember. Were they captured by members of their own family? No, no
they weren’t. Oh you’re talking about that granddad. My EOS No not the
Irish side, not the first world war side. He was a deserter. I think
so. I don’t know the whole story about that but EOS he changed-
changed his name, the- the spelling of the surname so they couldn’t
trace him or something. But I don’t know why they did that. Probably
so they didn’t have to fight. I don’t know, anyway. How about your
family? Yeah they told me stories yeah. My father told me a story
about when he was shot in the neck. Yeah, and we all believed him.
Well you would believe him, he’s got a hole in his neck where he was
EOS And what was the hole really? It was er tuberculosis. Given to him
by cow’s milk I believe. And we all believed him. When I first started
going out with Martin **anon** he told me he’d been shot in the neck.
I was fifteen and er for maybe twenty years, is it twenty years, I
believed him. All that time. That he’d been shot in the neck, but his
mum was shot, she had shap- shrapnel in her legs, she’s **anon**
Martin’s **anon** mum. And er when the- when the planes came over, and
the- they were shooting in the fields or something, weren’t they? My
mum wasn’t shooting. She was picking- she was picking potatoes. the
English yeah in a field. Little girl picking- picking potatoes in a
field and er a hurricane pilot decided she was a legitimate target.
And er opened the machines gun- machine guns at her. And she ended up
with shrapnel in the top of her thigh. yeah. She told us some right
stories, your mum didn’t she? From- she had it really hard. There’s I
think nine of them, wasn’t there? Something- was there nine brothers
and sisters. Something like yeah. And it really, really hard eating
frozen potatoes out of the ground when they were kids. And yeah, in
Germany Mm must’ve been hard for her. Not like me you see. Privileged
life that we lead. Some of us more than others. mmhmm, erm, how many
brothers and sisters do you have? And did you get along with each
other when you were kids? none of them. Youngest brother probably,
eldest brother used to bully EOS tease me, together with my dad. And
me younger brother. So you were picked on by all of them. All of them,
middle child, I used to batter my brother, seven years between us. I
used to batter him all the time EOS Make him do things to- for me, or
I’d torture him. He was only little. Oh how horrible! Still don’t get
on now EOS No that’s not true. That’s not true, we do get on, so EOS
So can you describe what a Chinese burn actually is? It’s it’s- give
me your wrist and I’ll show you. That- it’s no good for the tape is
it? Showing. No well you used to grab the wrists with your two hands
EOS and you used to go like that. And it used to burn. Used to twist
the skin on your wrist EOS What in opposite directions? Yes. In
opposite directions, and you used to scream. But my most favourite one
to do with him EOS was the cow bite. Was to grab him like that and
squeeze dead hard, until he’d shift from the chair. We always used to
fight where we used to sit you see. So- that’s what we used to do.
Well my brother used to give me cow bites. I used to hate him. I’m
sure my brother used to hate me. Used to give me cow bites on the back
of the arm, just pinch the back of the arm. And he used to think it
was funny. And I used to scream. and I used to think it was funny and
he used to scream. But then me dad would always intervene and I’d get
battered off me dad. Think my dad used to join in. I think these days
they’d call it child abuse. I’m gonna ask him when I see him now EOS
Yeah I can remember- and punishment from me mum. Always used to hand
out the beatings. the flat back of a hairbrush. Oh, ouch. She’s quite
torturous, his mother. Isn’t she, she’s- threw a turtle on the fire.
Cos she thought it was dead and it was hibernating. Say, it’s not
funny is it? No No it’s not. Now there was the kitten down the toilet.
What do you mean, kittens down the toilet? She told me she used to put
kittens- oh no in a bucket of water. When she was- when they were a
kid on the farm. There were too many cats. That’s what her dad used to
do. dunk them in a bucket of water. Didn’t she? She did yeah. She had
a terrible accident one day with her favourite little kitten. When she
closed the door without looking and her favourite little fluffy kitten
got in the way. Squished its head. That was horrible. Not very nice.
And the budgie. Oh we had a budgie, happy bird it was absolutely
fantastic, used to pick your teeth. Sit on your shoulder, come to you
whenever you called him. On your cup of tea, he’d stand on your cup of
tea. Didn’t he? Yep, he’d been rescued. Flown into my sister-in-law’s
office. And she brought him home and we kept him. And then me dad
decided to give him an airing, outside in his cage. And the cat got on
top of the cage. And we never seen happy bird ever again. Not very
good at keeping animals were you really? I wasn’t bad. We had a cat
called Ginger and my dad used to call him fleabag. And he got run over
and lost his leg, his front paw. What colour was he? and he used to be
full of fleas EOS So you called him Ginger and fleabag. Fleabag, ‘go
away fleabag!’ Used to go mad at him, always clawing. I had a guinea
pig when I was really little. Me dad hated that as well. Mm. He died.
How could he hate a guinea pig? He just used to hate him, he used to
say he was dead noisy. But that was from when I was really little,
when I lived in **anon**. And I left there when I was seven or eight,
I think I was. I remember the hutch in the back- in the back yard next
to the toilet. Cos we had an EOS What was it like then, using your
outside toilet? Can’t remember really, I was only little. But we had
an inside one as EOS Did you used to live in a mansion when you lived
in **anon**? No no, two up, two down. With- two up two down with two
toilets? No there was a toilet outside and then there was my mum and
dad’s bedroom and then there was my bedroom and then there was a wall
with a door in that me dad put up and there was a toilet in there.
Upstairs but you had to come through my bedroom to get to the toilet.
So you used to have an ensuite? So whilst the only person in the
country with ensuite was the Queen, you also had one? It was the
toilet upstairs. Definitely. With glass at the top and this studded
wall. Horrible it was. So an inside toilet was horrible? While I’m
going outside EOS in the depths of winter. Did you not have an inside
toilet? No we didn’t have an inside toilet no. That toilet that you’ve
got now? That’s an inside toilet. I can remember it- that’s- that’s a-
that’s an inside toilet that’s been turned round from the outside.
Originally that was an outside toilet. With red walls that had been
speckled with paint, like you’d do in school. To splash on the paper.
And that’s what we used to have. With a nail. You’ll be saying
newspaper next. And newspaper. Newspaper. No you did not. Cut up into
sheets. That’s not true! That’s true. Izal. Oh we used to have, Izal.
Don’t sound proud of it! It’s nothing to be proud of, to have Izal.
Izal was paper. It was horrible. It was, you had to scrunch it all up
first. Oh it EOS That was luxu- that was luxury, we had- when we had
the Izal in that was like our luxury, rather than the newspaper. That
was like a good day. If you went in there and there was Izal in there
that was like, ‘yeah it must be pay day.’ EOS We were posher than
Martin **anon** in our family EOS because we went to-. You’ll have
come from **anon**, you couldn’t have been- oh no you did have two
toilets didn’t you? Yes we did and we went to Majorca EOS when I was
little. With me **anon** and **anon** on a plane and I was about eight
or nine. And I remember sitting next to the pool eating EOS Rings,
chewy rings. Got- still got the photographs of that. I had an orange
and yellow dress on, that me nanna made. Mm, and a towelling bikini,
with spots EOS So you were there in nineteen seventy two, eating cala-
what, Roll of squid. I remember- I remember it really, really well.
And you were calling them calamari in nineteen seventy two? No we
weren’t calling them that, it was squid. Yeah, remember it. So you had
a toilet upstairs. And you used to go on foreign holidays. We did go
on one. And eat calamari. Only one foreign holiday. I bet you were
drinking wine as well, wasn’t you? No, no that was when I was a bit
older cos like I say with being Mediterranean in the family, we all
had wine. Two fingers EOS two fingers of wine in the glass, topped up
with lemonade or water. And there’s me being dragged off to me
bleeding grandmas in Windsor, into a tower block. Yeah, really yeah.
The old fifth floor of a tower block or something. That was my summer
holidays. That was only one, with me **anon** and me **anon** that I
remember that EOS Unless it was every year, this. No we didn’t get
holiday every year. Isle of Man. Wasn’t an holiday it was like
punishment. I remember going to the Isle of Man. did you not used to
go to **anon**? That was when I was older. I was just visiting family
then, not holiday I was visiting family. ‘Go- go to **anon**, go to
**anon** and watch your granddad die.’ Ah, so EOS Oh my god. That’s
what we did. Where in **anon** is it? It was er near EOS **anon**,
**anon**. We had a good time it was nice meeting family. Watching your
granddad die. Couldn’t under- watching me granddad die. Couldn’t
understand a word EOS But yeah, enjoyed it Not Windsor, I didn’t,
that’s a bit EOS Well other than going round the castle, the castle
was alright. Just me and me younger brother then so I wouldn’t be
bullied all the M; Remember having a bath once with my sister, well I
wasn’t bathing with my sister. That would be a bit weird, wouldn’t it?
But she bathed me, I don’t know, she would’ve been quite old as well,
maybe twelve or thirteen. Twelve probably I’d have been about eight.
And for a laugh she poured sco- scolding water on me head. I don’t
know if it was cold water first or hot water. But whatever it was, she
told me to stop complaining and put the other one on top of me head
afterwards. Oh god . It’s no wonder I’m a twisted individual I
suppose. See that’s my childhood, see? You had a terrible childhood
didn’t you? Yeah so did your **anon**. So did your brother. Being
bullied by you, that’s how he- Oh my god it was a bit of a flipping-
That’s how he feels. I’m sure that’s how he feels. That’s why he’s
gone to America. Because he had to leave because he couldn’t stay in
this country any EOS Do you know what I did do which was really bad?
This is terrible this. He bought my mum- there used to be a chocolate
bar called a nutty. And it- it was like caramel- That sounds
attractive that. that’s what they were called, do you remember nuttys?
No, could never afford chocolates. And it was caramel EOS and it was
wrapped in like peanuts and he bought it me mum for mother’s day and
kept it in the cupboard. He bought it with his spends. And I’ll never
forget, oh I can’t believe I did this, but I stole it and I ate it.
Cos I wanted this chocolate bar so, so much. And I denied all
knowledge for- it was up until a couple of years ago. I told him the
truth. He always used to say to me, ‘you did take that nutty, didn’t
you?’ And I used to go, ‘no I didn’t!’ and I did. And it was only a
few years ago when- cos I go and visit him maybe once a year. Or once
every two years, I can’t- and I told him the truth. And he was really
upset with me. Yeah, was he? Yeah, cos he EOS Well he would be. Cos
all he wanted to do as a child was please his EOS give it her for
mother’s day. All I wanted to do was please my mum, make cakes with my
mum, and I got teased and ridiculed. And all he wanted to do was buy
his mum a chocolate bar. And give it for mother’s day, was it? And
then somebody nasty and older went and spoilt it. I got her milk tray.
Spoilt his special day. His day with his mum. And I can- I remember I
got my mum a box of milk tray and you got a free happy mother’s day
card with it. And when she died she still- when we were going through
all her stuff, we found it, she’d kept it all that time. Really, aww
that’s nice. All that time, she kept it. And this little card as well,
best mum in the world. Couldn’t believe she kept it all that time. She
probably was quite- I dunno, a bit er- surprised that you’d been so
nice for once. I was a very nice daughter. Cos she’d probably see all
the things that you did to your brother and- but you continued to-
well you always liked chocolate didn’t EOS Doing things with chocolate
EOS I know it’s not about childhood because you know, when- when I had
my EOS oh don’t tell her that! Remember I had my easter egg? When we
were married. And you got me an EOS On easter Sunday morning. Yes I
remember. And I’d had it about two minutes EOS and you went all moody,
and stamped on it, stamped on it like a little child in front of me,
Stamping your feet over and over again until the easter egg was
crushed. Didn’t you? I can’t remember now. I can’t remember why. You
can’t rememb- you can’t remember doing it, oh did you blank it EOS No
I can remember, I can remember doing it very clearly. you blank it
out, that’s what I tried to do when-, I tried to blank it out when
nasty things happen to you, that’s what you try to do. Oh I can’t- I
can’t remember why I did that now. Why you annoyed me so much. mm, I
have my ideas why you did it but-. Why, tell me why! Cos you didn’t
get me one? I don’t think that was the reason. I can’t remember. I
think it’s just about your wiring, isn’t it? Er where are your parents
from? Oh we’ve established that really, Well my dad’s not **anon** is
he? No go on! Where are your parents from? That’s if they are my
parents. I always had the feeling I was adopted because there was- I
took so much abuse when I was a child. I always felt there was
something different about me. As if I’d been abused, not abused but as
if I’d been- I’d come from EOS But you and your brother are spitting
image of each other! I know but it wasn’t like that when I was a kid.
With your big freaky head. They used to- they used to say I had a big
head, yeah. He had a huge head. Yeah with the biggest afro you’ve ever
seen in your life, it used to EOS What does ‘’ mean? Your head, your
hair used to move before your head did. . your brother told me! What,
me brother told that mey head used to go ‘?’ EOS He said your head-
your afro was that big it used to wave in the EOS But if it was windy,
what if it wasn’t windy? I don’t know. So where’s your dad from? He’s
English, from Salford. My dad was born in Salford. Wasn’t he? And
lived in **anon**. M’: That’s a nice move that, isn’t it? From dirty
Salford to the suburbs of **anon**. Is that where he got the idea of a
second bathroom from? From living in **anon**? There was a toilet
upstairs, there was a toilet upstairs. How did he move from **anon**
to **anon** then? To the slums of **anon**? It was not a slum! It was
a slum, that was why you moved cos they pulled it down. Knocking the
houses down, because my dad used to work for a company EOS Erm and I
think the houses, I’m not- I’m not too sure about that. I know all the
houses were originally built for the factories weren’t they, that were
there. For the factory workers. But I’m sure it was my mum and dad’s
house. You know I’m pretty sure it was and they moved us to **anon**.
Cos they were pulling them all down. But they didn’t pull them down
for about five years, did they? Moved everybody out and then didn’t
pull them down EOS Well they put Asians in them didn’t they? That’s
what they did, yeah. Immigrants. But happy, happy childhood my best
friends, **anon**, **anon** and **anon** used to live across the road.
Oh that’s nice. Yeah, I remember that, playing with the prams having
races down the street with our prams. Playing cricket in the entry.
Couldn’t play cricket now but . How do you play- how do you play
cricket without ca- being able to catch a ball? I can catch a ball. I
can catch a ball. But you couldn’t on holiday. Oh here we go again.
Well you couldn’t! You couldn’t catch-. He was on holiday, he was
throwing this ball at me in the sea, and he was skidding it so it was
like that, ‘.’ EOS And it was splashing all the water in your face.
Well you’re like that shutting your eyes, and you can’t catch a ball
with your eyes shut. Is that those really small ones? Yeah **anon**
was saying. It was fantastic. Him and **anon** played for-. Throwing
it at each other. For about an hour, nearly put your shoulder out. But
that was the thing, catch the ball EOS So yes I can catch a ball EOS
Shall we move on now, do you want to move on? Do you want to move on?
School days, go to school days! You had nice catholic schools, didn’t
you? That must’ve been nice. Bet the n- nuns were nice, weren’t they?
**anon** in particular. I wouldn’t mention any names Janice **anon**,
but- No it’s okay it gets edited out. Oh that’s okay. I was only
kidding her. She’s- she was terrible. She’s really, really evil. Used
to- she had a knack, she used to throw the board rubber and she used
to get you EOS It just- it- there had to be complete silence in the
classroom and if you dared ask someone next to you for a pencil or- oh
my god, you used to get it. And you used to have to stand in the
corner- there was a teacher called er **anon** and your nose had to be
on the wall, like that which- just stand there, all through the
lesson. Until she was ready for you to sit back down. She was evil,
horrible woman, horrible. That’d be child abuse now I’m sure it would
be. Can’t touch them now. Erm, how about you at school? He’s really
clever he went to a grammar school, didn’t you? It wasn’t me first
scho- they didn’t put me straight to grammar EOS I had to- I had to do
infants and juniors first. I loved my school, **anon**, and then
**anon**. You got bullied at school, didn’t you? A little bit yeah Mm,
I did. Is that why you used to- is that why you used to go home and
bully EOS You used to- but- but you used to be a bully at school. I
didn’t bully anybody EOS I didn’t bully I was just a bit rougher than
the other kids. Is that not a bully? Didn’t bully them, no I didn’t
bully them. You used to batter anyone? Just everybody- no people just
used to have their place. And you were the top of the pack, were you?
Mm, top bit of it, yeah. Top ten percent. That’s just the way school
was. Bit like that in EOS Suppose yeah, it is. Do you remember your
first day at school? I bet you had shiny shoes on, didn’t you? New
shiny shoes. I remember my first day at secondary school. When I was
eleven. I do remember that. Me nanna and granddad bought me this
bloody briefcase. I just wanted a backpack, like everyone else. That’s
all I wanted was this backpack. But my nanna and granddad- well it was
me granddad, he’d gone to London to see his mother. And it was them in
the house that had give him this briefcase that used to be my uncle’s.
Oh god and it was brown and it was horrible, with this big buckle
thing on the front, oh I hated it so much, and I had to take it to
school. And they just laughed their heads off at EOS I hated it. Hated
it so much. I wish I’d have had one like that. What did you have? I
had a briefcase, it didn’t sound as nice as that one. Oh Martin
**anon** it was awful. It was brown, like dark- like- like a tan
brown. It was so noticeable. Oh and it used to make this clicking
noise, oh god. Yeah you couldn’t even open it quiet EOS it’s all
coming back oh no EOS you couldn’t even open it quiet. everyone used
to look. What did you used to keep in there? My lovely pencils. Cos I
used to love my pencils and my felt tip EOS And my books. And me
dinner tickets. I bet you used to like dinner didn’t you? Dinnertimes.
Did you used to like dinnertimes? I was dead skinny then I was, I was
really skinny. Yeah that’s because you liked dinnertimes, that’s
because- but you loved school dinners didn’t you? I did yeah. Cos you
became a school dinner lady. I am a catering manager thank you very
much. I manage the kitchen. Yeah we’ll call it-. I manage my cook, and
my washer uppers. And you do some cooking as well. I do cooking, I do
the c- I do the main meals, yes. Do you now- do you er- bring back
your old favourites? You know, the stuff that you used to like when
you were a kid? Do you now cook that same stuff for the children that
you’re cooking for now? Yeah, things like rice pudding, tapioca, erm
lemon sponge and custard. Chocolate sponge with mint custard, that’s
one of the EOS Do you think the chemicals in the mint custard- Do you
think they could affect children? Er no it’s a mint- it’s a mint erm
essence. It’s a pure- pure mint essences we use. Where do they get the
luminous green colour from? Erm it’s a food colourant. Yeah but we use
one teaspoon for four gallons of custard. That must be pretty powerful
stuff. It is cos it only ever hi- hi- a tinge of green, if I make it
too green, they won’t have it. Do you think if you ate a spoonful of
that green colouring, do you think you’d turn green? If you took it
neat? I’m sure it would do irreparable damage to your insides. What
about your skin tone though? But watered down- well they do say if you
eat beta carotene, which is a natural food colourant in carrots, that
it is in tanning tablets and that’s what makes you go brown. If you
take enough of them, yeah EOS Do you think that there’s Martians
somewhere that- I dunno, on some planet outer universe, that are green
coloured, but only light green, that they might take this green food
colouring to tan them up. Do you think there’d be same type of-?
You’re very weird. Tablets for martians? So like you’d be like a light
green martian but you’re thinking, ‘I want to look like I’ve been on
my holidays, so I’ll take a little mouthful of Janice’s **anon**
special green food colouring and that’ll green me up.’ EOS No I don’t.
yeah, that’s a very, very weird thing to ask. Anyway what else do I
make? Make all sorts of favourites, cobbler, minced beef cobbler they
like. What was your favourite school meal? When I was at school? Yeah
what did you used to look for? You’re in the queue-. Obviously you’re
probably bullying a little kid in front of you. I never bullied EOS
yeah I never bullied at school. I was bullied. Chinese burns, cow
bite. No I was never- I never ever bullied at school. But my favourite
thing at school was gypsy pie. It was the best thing ever. My mum
tried to make it and she could never make it the same. What’s a gypsy
pie? Gypsy pie is pastry, jam, and then a mixture of desiccated
coconut and golden syrup. And one or two other bits and bobs in it.
Yeah, mm that sounds nice. And cornflakes, all mished together and you
put it on top and it’s EOS Couldn’t eat it now. But er- and we used to
have er mince and onion pie as well EOS at school with mashed potatoes
and gravy. That was another big, big favourite, cos my mum never used
to make pies. I used to love that What was yours? I can’t remember to
be honest. I used to love them EOS It was all pretty bad EOS but we
always used to go back for seconds. You were always quite happy when
you was- you were last in the last year to go up. Cos you used to get
seconds. Cos you used to get seconds, yeah. But I can’t particularly
remember anything in particular. Jam and rice pudding’s the big
favourite at my school. They love it, one of their favourite,
favourite puddings. Oh do you remember them? They were big wasn’t
they? Not as big as a wagon wheel. I used to love that, shortbread
with chocolate on the top, wasn’t it? I used to love them EOS Used to
have them at break times. Yeah used to say, ‘dundee’ underneath didn’t
they? Sugar on it EOS I never had one. You never had one? I used to
sp- No, I used to spend my money on cigarettes. Well that’s what you
did, start smoking at eight. I don’t know what you’re laughing at.
That’s when kids started smoking then. Pinch them off your mum. Pinch
money out of your mum’s purse. oh my god! Cos I didn’t do any jobs for
her, she was never gonna give me spends, So I used to pinch money out
of my mum’s purse. my, God Martin **anon**. And we’d all go- we’d all
go home after school and pinch money from your mum, then club it all
together and get five Kensington’s club. Oh yeah. Or Park Drive or
whatever you could get in fives. And then have one each. And do you
know what he used to do as well, when he was little? It’s EOS They er-
they had a corner shop. And they used to climb over the wall, pinch
the bottles, take the bottles, come back over, go into the front of
the shop, give the shop keeper the bottles and we used to get five p
back for them EOS was it five p or a penny or something. More like a
penny, probably. In old money. For his own- for his own- from his own
bottles. Terrible, you were really bad you EOS I wasn’t really- it was
normal we were just normal kids. Never got in trouble cos we didn’t
get caught. that’s okay then EOS Yeah, erm. In your opinion, how has
your community changed in recent years? Oh it’s changed loads hasn’t
it? Er there’s a lot more er dogs knocking about. Dog poo! Dog poo’s
not white any more. Because it’s the bones. The bonemeal that used to
be in dog food. And they stopped doing it because of, is it BSM? BS-
BS- Er British School of Motoring? oh what’s it called? The- the-
the-. Mad cow disease. I don’t think that had anything to do with it.
Are you sure I thought that’s why they stopped doing them. I am sure
yeah. No white dog poo went long before then. I think they just put-
stopped putting calcium in the dog food. Don’t know what reason. So
yeah, you don’t see white dog poo any more. No you don’t EOS Apart
from my dog, who only has white dog poo. Cos all he eats is raw
chicken EOS and bones, doesn’t he? Did you have a favourite teacher at
school? I know you got the nasty ones, the nuns. Little mob of your
nuns that used to terrorise you all, but did you have a nice teacher?
Er **anon** he was the headmaster. This is in secondary school, I
liked him. He was always really kind, Firm but kind. We used to do
something well and he a- he always used to give you sweets. We used to
have a sweet called mojos. And he used to give us a mojo to eat. Was
that your favourite sweet, because you look like a bit of a curly
wurly girl to me. Used to love curly wurlys as well. I knew you did I
could just tell by looking at you. And fudge. Fudges and curly wurlys,
yeah, and I used to love pear drops, they were my favourites and my
dad used to get cough candies for work and I always used to pinch them
. I remember sweets as a kid, I remember my friends giving me sweets,
my younger brother and two of his-. You never used to get any did you
not? And two of his friends and two other friends, best friends, they-
the- Who was your best friends? **anon** and **anon** and- And they
used to get sweets. No they just give me some sweets one day. And as I
was half way through eating them, they told me that they were- that
they actually found them. Or they’d got them from a girl called
**anon** who was like the dirtiest, horriblest girl in the whole wide
world. And they said they’d got the sweets from her. And I was halfway
through eating them. And I had to spit them out and be sick. Oh was
she that bad? She was that bad, we d- we perceived her to be that bad.
And my friends gave me sweets from her. And laughed as I was eating
EOS and you didn’t know why they were laughing? No I just thought they
were being kind. But they weren’t and it made me cry. in front of your
mates? Yep cos it was that bad. How old were you? Oh get lost! how old
were you? I dunno, ten or summat like that. Eight. Used to have that
effect that’s the effect she used to have. Scruffy, Why was she so
bad? Because she was scruffy and horrible EOS Did she smell? Yeah
smelly horrible dirty, yeah EOS Nobody would ever sit next to her in
class. Cos she smelt? Yeah cos she’s smelly and horrible and. ooh,
where does she live? **anon** I think. that was my address you liar!
It wasn’t you, was it? No it was not. No she’s living in the next
street. Do you know her now? I didn’t like sweets after that. Put you
off. Yeah put me off for life. We’ve still got a lot of friends that
still live in the community though, haven’t we? Still live in the same
place. oh, that’s nice EOS All our lives really. It’s not that- it’s
not that nice really. we’re still friendly- few- quite a few friends
have moved away, haven’t they? **anon** moved away to where is he
Leek? Is it Leek? Yeah it’s Leek. yeah Leek. He’s moved away. **anon**
just moved to Cornwall and- But still a lot of friends-. You don’t see
many old people in- in Stretford any more, or **anon**. Is it because
they’ve all died? Are we the old people now? We’re turning into them,
yeah. Forty six, forty seven, yeah. We’re classed as middle aged now
aren’t we? Cos what what used to be the- the OAP home became the young
EOS Yeah single parent’s thing, yeah. And that was a bit shit. Then
they knocked the church down. Yeah, where all our kids were
christened. And made that social housing. Filled it full of black
people. Oh, just reminded me- yeah. That was a bit shit. You just
reminded me then when er- when I- we used to- then they knocked down
**anon**. Yeah when I- and took all the rubbish from there and moved
that into my community. And that’s a bit shit. Then the pub we go in.
That used to be full of people. Is now empty all the time. And that’s
a bit shit. Full of little scabby kids, isn’t it now? Yeah black lads
on mountain bikes outside. Scary, it’s horrible. We don’t go in.
That’s a bit rubbish yeah. Er but, talking about that old people’s
place, when I went to **anon** we all used to have to go and do stuff
in the community like help a EOS and me and one of my friends,
**anon** **anon** we used to have to go to the- that old people’s home
on a- on a Saturday or Sunday and just do something for folk, you know
just EOS just help out EOS have a chat or EOS go and walk round the
garden with one of them. **anon**, **anon** her name was, the lady we
had. Then she died. Did she leave her purse out? No she gave me an
ornament, I always remember that. I dunno what happened to it though,
a little- How did you manage to smuggle that out? She gave it to me!
She gave one to me. Is that what you t- is that what you told your
mum? She gave one to me and she gave one to **anon**. Little fairy
thing it was. All chipped and battered. Cos we always used to dust her
ornaments for her. Oh that’s nice. Then one day there was one missing.
No she gave them you. Pinching from blooming shop keepers. And I bet
**anon** was old and she didn’t know whether she’d give it you or not,
did she? she was old, no, used to push her round in her wheelchair in
the EOS You used to push her around you say? In the wheelchair around
the garden. Cos they used to have big rose beds didn’t they, do you
remember? I do remember the nice rose- they used to have- yeah
tendered rose EOS Yeah they were lovely. Both there and in the er- the
council housing that was across the EOS What was it called? **anon**
that’s it. Four storey high council flats. Yeah old people’s- for old
people. Used to have like a community room as well downstairs. With a
tv and-. All very pretty, all w- all well tended. Yeah. It was it was
lovely. Don’t have flower beds anymore. No it’s horrible.