 There is a large amount of background noise throughout the recording
EOS There is no left channel between 15.05 - 26.42 and 27.41 - EOS
Right when you’re ready. EOS You start off Fearne **anon** then. EOS
Well I went to school in **anon** which is called **anon** school. EOS
You know I’ve been there for a long time. A very long- I couldn’t
remember how many years but I lived there for a long time with me EOS
Erm we moved away from **anon**- EOS and lived in **anon**. I used to
live at the **anon**. Been there a long EOS so I moved to up road now,
which as you know I live on my own, so it’s just that erm you know I
get on with- EOS Were you happy at school? EOS Yes I was. Yeah I was
happy at school. EOS were you, mm EOS Yeah, yeah. It’s just that when
I went there, **anon** in- in **anon** EOS I had to wear you know
like- go to a- like a clinic thing. EOS I had to wear this cardboard
hat over me head cos the sun, EOS for a reason, cos of me eyes, so EOS
You’re right, yeah. Yes. EOS That’s why I had me eyes tested. EOS
Some- I mean they sent you a reminder that your eyes are due to be
tested, you know. EOS mm, yeah, yeah EOS But they always seem to be
okay The- these are me reading glasses and the ones I’ve got at home,
they’re for the television. But as I say school sports, but I never
done that at all. Well I’ve done sports but not done- I don’t think
I’ve done music and drama cos I was fostered out when I was- when I
was a child. EOS Were you, yeah? EOS yeah, yeah when me and my sister
were very- w- we were forstered out cos me mother was tookayvery ill,
very poorly- EOS and, I did enjoy sch- we did enjoy school EOS you
know. But erm when we came out of fostering I can’t remember what
happened then. It’s- It was a long- a very long time ago EOS yeah,
yeah, mm EOS and your favourite teacher, well I just can’t remember
about- favourite teacher at all about that. But when I remember from
your first day at school we just enjoy- you get to know EOS young
people you know in- in the school yard like. EOS And I do remember but
erm that one in **anon** I don’t- I don’t know if it’s still there or
not cos I’ve not been down to **anon** for ages. EOS And did you have
what our school had, an outside toilet? EOS I think we did. EOS But it
was cold in the winter EOS I think- I think we did. I think we did. I
think we did. EOS Yeah, mm, yeah. You wouldn’t forget if you did, no
EOS Now what- were- were your summers holidays like when you were
young? Well, when I was young I had no holidays been put back- erm I
don’t think I went to go away much. EOS When I got a bit older. EOS I
have been to Scotland. You know I’ve been to Scotland- EOS mm, you’ve
been to Scot- yeah yeah. EOS Err I went out with somebody like ages-
I’m going back ages ago but EOS erm no as I said to you before I’m on-
I’m on me own now. EOS So I just keep on going you know. I like my
walks and everything you EOS Yeah yeah, yeah EOS You know I like
coming here for my lunch EOS Yeah yeah, yeah, yeah EOS I mean the
staff are very good to you. EOS Were you happy at school? EOS Yes I
was very happy at school. Yeah, yeah. EOS I hate- I hated it EOS Well
you- you had to go- you had to go didn’t you to learn. EOS Yeah yeah
mm EOS You know and erm I did have a brother. Erm mind you he’s not
long with me. He passed- EOS Yes, that’s it- EOS He passed away. I’ve
got another brother- EOS You’ve got another brother, yeah. EOS he
lives in Oldham and he do- he do- he rings me once a fortnight or I-
I- or I ring him EOS Yeah, yeah, yeah. EOS and erm I had another
brother but we don’t get on at all. EOS and erm what extra you are.
Schoo- sports, music- we’ve said that haven’t we. I like sports you
know I like sports. No problem at all with sports. You know you do the
sack race and egg-spoon race and all this kind of thing you know. EOS
It says here did you ever get you ever get into trouble at school? EOS
No I didn’t. EOS No you didn’t . EOS No I didn’t. EOS Did you Edmund
**anon**? EOS Not really no. See I- I- I started school at **anon**.
EOS Was only there a year and me parents said it wasn’t suitable cos
of me problem with me speech. EOS They used to hit me over the head
with a ruler to get the words out and it made you wo- EOS And then I
went to **anon**. I don’t know if you’ve ever heard of EOS it’s a- I
loved it there. There was two ladies that’s all who taught you. I
didn’t like school with having the problem with speech. EOS It was-
you know- but erm I went and as soon as I- I was fourteen I EOS I just
didn’t like it. EOS So did I get into trouble? No I don’t think I did.
The only t- I- yeah I got six of the best once. EOS Well I used to
write d- I used to go to s- erm the school that **anon** and there’s
always a bully- EOS and I was riding me bike back to school and he
stopped me and he made me give him a lift on my crossbar. And when I
got to school- oh I got stopped- we got stopped on the way there by a
policeman. EOS ‘Which school do you go to?’ So I told him and the
middle of the afternoon I was in the headmaster’s office and I got six
of the best. EOS Caned for doing that. And lookayat the world today.
EOS Just with having someone on- on your bike. On your crossbar. EOS
Well I left school- I think I left school when I was six- I think I
was sixteen when I left s- when I left school, I- EOS Mm. I- I liked
me childhood days yes because I was l- lucky that our house was only
about the- a couple of hundred yards off a farm. EOS oh, that’s nice
EOS And I was always on there and I love animals. EOS And me favourite
animal’s the cow. It’s so laid back and- EOS just like that the cow
you know. So I spent a- a lot of my- my time with animals on- on the
farm you know. EOS Yeah, that’s nice EOS I once- yeah I was still at
school and there was a c- c- couple of farms not- short distance. And
the farmer asked me to go to the other farm and erm excuse me. I was
walking it and there’s some ditches where all the water drains in- EOS
and there was a man on a bike acting suspicious. EOS So I- I watched
him and then I went on and I caught a butterfly in me EOS He cycled up
to me then and said ‘what have you got in your hand?’ I said ‘a
butterfly’ He said erm, ‘let it go! You don’t know what it’s like t-
to be fastened up’. EOS So I did and erm I went to the other farm and
walking back I went to have a lookayin this ditch. And I found erm
clothes, prison clothes . It was an escaped prisoner. EOS So I left
them and I went to the police station in Urmston and they said ‘have a
lookayat will you at this bookayand see if you can find him’. And I
found him and they gave me five shillings. EOS Oh five shillings oh.
EOS S- so erm I can u- understand the story now with the butterfly and
EOS S- so that was on- one of my school stories anyway and erm I
suppose there’s a lot isn’t there really. But it wasn’t bad. I enjoyed
me school i- in a way. EOS And erm and I’m a great believer your
life’s mapped out EOS because on the piece of land I live now I lived
in nineteen thirty. EOS But this is a modern house now and there was
an old house on there. EOS And I didn’t know when I bought this house
exactly where I’d lived. EOS So I do believe y- your life in a way
your pattern of life is led. EOS You know because I’m going to end up
where I started off you know EOS Mm. Have you got any more Fearne
**anon** then them that you’ve thought EOS Well there’s one here one
at the top. W- where are your parents from? Now that’s an question
because erm I got an old photograph at EOS Very old photograph. EOS
Erm when me mother was alive- EOS she lived w- we moved away from
**anon** up to- moved up to **anon**. She was alive then- EOS but I
didn’t knew me father at all. EOS No. So- so I don’t know about that
one but erm I mean me uncles and all that me aunties are you know
passed away. So it’s- EOS Yeah, yeah, yeah. EOS So- so it just that,
erm, w- EOS Is your mother from L- Lancashire or out of the county?
EOS Erm sh- sh- she could- she could be. I mean you know. EOS mm, you
don’t really know. EOS We don’t really know. You know you’re so young
you sometimes you EOS Do you know what happened in those days? They
would never tell you EOS Your parents. They kept s- secret. EOS I erm-
when I was five I went to my Grandma’s funeral in **anon**. EOS And
you weren’t allowed to see anything so I- I was taken for a walk in
the village. It was a lovely village. There was a stream and it was a
beautiful village and I was only five. And all me life I had this
picture of this village and whenever I asked my parents what it was
called ‘what do you want to know for?’ And I must’ve been about
seventy and we had a motorhome then. EOS And I said to my wife ‘come
on. I’m going to find- EOS the name of this village’. I knew where one
of the ancestors lived and we went into this erm village and they said
‘oh you’d better ask at the postoffice he’ll know’. So we went in the
postoffice, says ‘I can’t help you. I’ve only been here two weeks’.
EOS So he didn’t know any of the villagers. So an- anyway in the end
we did find a person of the surname that we were looking for. So we
went round to this house and as we- and I said to me wife ‘get out and
ask this lady walking down the path if they know a **anon**’. So she
got out and this lady says ‘come on in it’s me mother’. EOS Yeah. And
she told me the name of the village. So after about seventy years I
went back and it still looked the same to me. EOS But they had secrets
they wouldn’t tell you. EOS ‘W- what do you want to know for?’ And
erm- EOS Yeah, yeah, yeah EOS So I’m half Lancashire and half
Yorkshire. EOS Mother’s from Yorkshire. Near **anon**. And me dad’s
from **anon** and he was a joiner. Erm me- m- mother w- worked in
service. EOS What was called service in those days. She more or less
lived in the house and was responsible for the house. EOS Looking
after it. Cleaning it, meals, everything you know EOS and in those
days it was called service. And she worked in **anon** EOS Erm not
much about school is there at the moment? EOS No, no erm EOS it’s just
that I’m looking at this other one here, EOS the local evening news
stories about thi- important people know about your- your town. EOS
Well as I said before in **anon** I meant to t- I meant to tell you
this but I got two sisters which I never seen. EOS very long- for a
very long time. EOS I’ve got their address and I gave it to me brother
to- EOS you know to get in touch you know with us but I don’t know if
he’s done it yet. I don’t know. Sometimes- I usually go down to see
him but he meets me so, cos it’s a long way. EOS c- cos he’s moved
into a bungalow now you see. He’s not- he’s never been married you
know, he’s- EOS Well I’m not asking how old you are Fearne **anon**
but - EOS No. I’m not that bothered about my age. EOS Were you at
school in the war or- or af- or after? EOS I’ll be- I was born in
nineteen forty one so I’ll be- EOS Oh you missed it. Well no you were
born in the war. EOS born in the war yeah. EOS mm, mm, mm EOS So I’ve
got an old big photograph you know erm at home somewhere but EOS I
remember I used to have this old three wheeled bike. Very old three
EOS Mm oh yeah. Yeah. EOS A very old one you know. In **anon**, very
old. And the people w- w- when we put our house up for sale EOS and a
nice couple b- bought it. You know nice coloured people bought it you
know EOS So that’s when we moved for my mother’s health you know. EOS
So she couldn’t travel. She couldn’t go out at all much. EOS Well the
war started didn’t it in nineteen thirty nine. EOS Yeah, yeah so- EOS
And I was at **anon** school then- EOS which overlooked the canal. EOS
Oh the boats that went along there they were fabulous you know it’s-
you don’t see them now. EOS They’ve all gone. EOS Massive big boats
with a- a- a tug a- at the front to pull it. T- t- tug at the back to
steady it back you know- EOS and the bridge used to swing EOS and that
was good there th- for a- w- watching that you know. EOS So I- I was
at school when the war started and erm it was a queer time because all
the street signs were moved. All the lights were taken awa- no lights
were allowed to be on. EOS All the cars had to have a light with a
slit in it only. EOS It was a- a weird place didn’t it. All the names
went didn’t they. EOS They were taken away and- and where I lived in
**anon** there was a barrage balloon site on the corner. And the
barrage balloon was- it was f- f- filled with gas and when the airraid
came it used to go into the air to stop aircraft d- diving down. EOS
Because we lived a short distance from **anon**- EOS which was erm
industry in the war. EOS And erm- and when the wind was- if the
barrage balloon went up and it was windy the ba- the barrage balloon
used to sway into our- our back garden you know and erm yeah. EOS You
just were frightened to death you know and they erm and leading to
**anon** was big oil drums on the side of the road- EOS with a out.
EOS And the Germans used to follow the ship c- canal from L-
Liverpool- EOS when the- the moonlight was out you can be sure there’s
going to be a raid you know. EOS And you used to f- f- follow the moon
No left channel EOS up the canal and if the wind was blowing to
Trafford Park they used to light these oil drums so a mass of smoke
went over the park and they couldn’t find it. EOS Yeah. So erm- I
think I’ve lived in the best time cos radio was still new. T-
television had been thought of but it had been put on one side because
of the war. EOS Buses were always on time. EOS Weren’t they Fearne
**anon**? EOS If you went out for a bus- EOS It’d be there EOS it was
there. EOS And you can erm- it was you know. Now what are the most
important changes in- in a- in your town? EOS Well it’s changed- we
have no cinemas left. EOS No. No we haven’t. There’s- that big one in
Sale- EOS that’s just standing there. I know- I used to go there one
time. EOS But it’s just standing there doing nothing you know. Sh- sh-
it’s a shame really you know. EOS They’ve gone because my youth I used
to go to the cinema about twice EOS And when I got a little bit older,
do you remember Urmston baths? EOS Not the old one. EOS Not the old
one. EOS I know the new one. **anon** talks about- cos it used to be
the **anon** EOS Well the Urmston baths in the winter. They used to
empty the water EOS put a wooden floor over it. And it was sprung like
a proper dance floor and they had dancing every Saturday and
Wednesday. EOS And they had a big bands. About a fifteen piece band
that came every EOS That was fun. EOS And you daren’t drink cos if
you’d had a drink a girl wouldn’t dance EOS It was very strict in
those days. EOS So yeah U- Urmston’s v- very busy now. Whereas I can-
one- one memory I’ve got in the school days when the war started was
me mother pushing the pram with my sister in- EOS down to Urmston a
blackout c- c- curtaining you know. Cos we had orders. We hadn’t got
to sh- sh- show any lights at all and- EOS you had to have your
windows blacked out so nobody could see and that is one of the
memories I’ve got. And then the bombs dropping round you. It was a bit
of a hectic time wasn’t it. EOS those- those days, yeah EOS You never
got a night in bed- EOS without you were i- in- in a- a air raid sh-
shelter. EOS Yeah that’s right they’d shelters didn’t they. Yeah. EOS
No. Ours- ours was in the house. EOS There was an Anderson shelter-
you’ve- have you heard of an Anderson? EOS I’m not quite sure if I
have heard of it. EOS It’s all cast- and it’s all iron metal. EOS With
four sides and a metal top. So if the bomb- house fell on it it
wouldn’t- you’d be safe inside there you know. EOS We had a wired mesh
all around it like an- animals . EOS And that was called- and that was
inside ours. The Anderson shelter. EOS We had one outside our house.
EOS In our old house. EOS It had like pebbles over it so it looked
like it was just part of the EOS Yeah so it looked like a part of the
garden. Yeah. EOS I never- we couldn’t get into it cos it was all
blocked off inside. EOS But at least I found . EOS Yeah, yeah. Yeah
th- they were scary days weren’t they in a way EOS Mm it was yeah. EOS
You know cos you didn’t know what’s going to happen. EOS I mean I was
only v- I must’ve been very young- EOS to you know. It’s erm- EOS Well
as I said I didn’t like school. EOS Did you move house at all when you
were young? What memories do you have of this? EOS I moved house once.
I moved from where I live now to **anon** another part of **anon**
where me p- parents stayed until they p- passed away so- EOS so they
were there a long time. EOS I- I- I lived there ‘til I was twenty
five. Cos there was a lot going on in Urmston then. EOS I went- with
being stammering I was very shy and reserved and I thought I’ve got to
do summat about this. So I went and had d- d- d- d- dancing lessons in
Urmston. EOS Yeah and I enjoyed it and I’ve got all my medals for
dancing . EOS Yeah and that was a way of b- bringing me out you know
EOS Yeah. Mm. And then course you were always g- going dancing and m-
we had a milk bar in Urmston. EOS Did you- did you have a milk bar at
all **anon**? EOS If I could remember it’s- EOS They only sold
milkshakes. EOS Mm. S- sh- shop’s still there now but they’ve run out
of milk. It’s EOS Yeah. I tell you what I was thinking of last night.
I knew what I wanted to do when I left school and as soon as I was
fourteen I was EOS And I wanted to be a lithographic printer. EOS I
was always interested in printing all- this was nineteen forty four.
There was one year left of the war. But it was ending and there were
soldiers were arriving home then. EOS So they had to have their old
jobs back. EOS You c- I c- could not get a job EOS to be a
lithographic printer. So- I’m talking a lot aren’t I. EOS No you ca-
no you carry on you carry on! EOS So there was an advert in the
newspaper. The evening news. EOS ‘Boy wanted to learn lithographic
printing’ Manchester. So I was there for eight o’clock and the job had
gone. EOS Dear me. Anyway so they said ‘but we’ve got a vacancy in the
handwritten department’. Now don’t ask me what that was. EOS So they-
I went along with them upstairs and they showed me. There was about
nine men working there all doing handwritten posters- EOS which they
did in those days. EOS I mean I can r- r- remember Urmston it was just
full of posters on the walls. Most of those were hand done. EOS All-
o- others were lithographic printed so I started there. And erm to cut
a long story short I did that the rest of my life for fifty EOS But
when I worked there got a pound a week. EOS And I’ve written this down
because I’d forget it wouldn’t I EOS You came prepared . EOS I had to
go on the bus to Manchester six days a week. That cost me fifty four
d, old p- pence a week. I had to give me m- mother ninety p oh no d,
of the old money. EOS I used to go to the pictures twice a week for
th- th- thirty d. Thirty pence. Thirty eight old money and I was left
with sixty six p- EOS for a week and that was a pound. EOS And I used
to live on it EOS and I think now. I think that’s now why it’s made me
appreciate- EOS the value of money. EOS And erm if I can jump a bit
further I then left there and went to work for another firm who did,
you won’t have heard of these will you- EOS You’ll have heard of them
won’t you? EOS Oh yes, yeah, yeah. EOS Well the **anon** were the
biggest circuit in England of cinemas. EOS And some cinemas used to
change three times a week. Monday Tuesday Wednesday, Thursday Friday
Saturday and a different one on a Sunday- EOS so people went. EOS And
there was about- I think there was sixty of us worked there. And we
used to do abou- I- I forget the amount but it was in hundreds. The
circuit was in hundreds of cinemas. And we used to do them all by hand
every week. One week’s holiday. A forty eight hour week and that’s
where I really learnt me job there you know my trade. EOS They went
bankrupt. EOS And I got oth- other jobs you know and then I always
wanted to have me own business and I started my own business in
nineteen sixty six . I found this old property and I started in
business on two weeks holiday pay that I’d got from the firm. EOS
Fifteen- thirty pound it was for two weeks. EOS Out of that I had to
pay sixteen pound to rent the shop. It was a big gamble wasn’t it. EOS
But I was lucky that I got the c- custom you know. EOS Struggled and
erm- but people were good in those days c- anyway I- I managed to get-
make friends with a chappy who worked for I think it was Esso
petroleum. And he- he was responsible for ad- advertising and he used
to bring me the advertising to do you know big wooden signs. EOS And
so I hadn’t erm money to buy the wood even to do them on. But there
was a wonderful sh- shop in **anon** where th- you know they used to
sell wood. EOS And he said to me ‘Edmund **anon** you take it. When
you get paid you pay me’ and I thought that was lovely that. EOS You
know. And I worked on my own for t- twenty five years and enjoyed it.
Erm and I lookayback on life it’s- it’s had its bad times I’ve EOS
First time okay, you can’t have it perfect can you. EOS And then me
wife- I went out with me wife once when I was about eighteen and the
problem was she was a friend of the fam- or their- her parents were a
friend of my parents and whenever she came round I went out you know.
EOS So anyway we went out with each other once. We didn’t like each
other EOS We went off an married somebody else and fifteen years later
I got divorced. D- didn’t know where **anon** was. Hadn’t the
slightest where she was. Until a friend of mine who was an insurance
agent he said ‘I’ve just knocked at a house in Stretford and this
**anon**- **anon** came to the door.’ I said ‘did she?’ He said ‘yeah’
he said erm ‘she’s got divorced and she’s living in **anon** and she’s
a bit of alright yeah Edmund **anon**’ Left channel resumes EOS So
Edmund **anon** wrote to her mother EOS And that’s how that started
all over again. EOS So you can see why I believe your life’s mapped
out. EOS Cos how did I meet her again in **anon** when I was here? EOS
And both divorced and things. EOS Yeah this is it you know. And that-
that was fantastic that. I’ve got a boy off me first marriage and off
the second I’ve got t- two girls EOS One’s okay One’s very okay, one’s
lovely. EOS And the other one sh- she was even odd with her mother you
know. EOS I haven’t heard off her for a year now. EOS I mean her mum
died th- th- th- what three year ago now wouldn’t it be. Yeah. And erm
sh- she’s strange. EOS Course there’s always strange ones about. EOS
P- people say I’m strange. No left channel EOS Well when I left
school- EOS when I left school I would I did erm I work in **anon**-
EOS in a factory but erm I was a- I was a cleaner there. EOS Cleaner.
You know full time cleaner. EOS Oh yeah, yeah. EOS I’ve not just do-
I’ve always done cleaning. EOS Who do you work for? I might know them.
EOS Erm well it’s called **anon**- **anon**. It’s not- they’re not
there an- EOS But the building’s still there. EOS Yeah. No I don’t
remember them. EOS Erm the- it- quite a few got made redundant. EOS I
couldn’t tell you how many years that was. EOS But I was made
redundant. EOS And then I worked in the erm- in the canteen you know.
I’ve done EOS I’ve done looking after children- EOS And erm as you
know I look after dogs and all this kind of thing. EOS Yeah of course.
Yeah yeah. Mm. EOS You know erm hal- in the fact the people I’ve just
c- come back from EOS Erm it was me last night last night cos they
came- EOS They came back did they? Yeah. EOS back yesterday afternoon
about half past two. Yeah. They were very pleased everything was okay
you know. EOS Cos they know. I’ve been with them what it must be about
twenty one years I’ve been with them you know cos they know they can
trust me EOS Mm, mm, that’s right. EOS you know. They know the two
cats are being getting looked after. EOS That’s the most important
thing in life isn’t it trust. EOS Trust t- trust you know. EOS You
know. If they trust you. I’ve got a lady who does my house work and I
come out many a day and she lets herself in and I’ve got a lot of f-
faith in and trust in her and it’s nice to have- EOS cos that’s
important part of life is trust. EOS Isn’t it? I you don’t mind if I
chatter? EOS No you carry on EOS . It’s what he’s good at EOS He is
isn’t he carry on. EOS In ninetee- with having me own business- EOS in
nineteen seventy four I was invited to join the Rotary Club **anon**.
Have you heard of Rotary? EOS No. You’ll- you might’ve heard of
Rotary. EOS I might’ve heard of it. Long time ago . EOS They used to
come round the streets at C- Christmas time with a Christmas float.
Yours in **anon**- EOS Yeah they used to do it- they used- EOS and
Lymm- Lymm- Lymm R- Rotary Club came round. EOS And it- it was- EOS it
was started in America originally. EOS And it’s for business men you
know who’ve reached the top of the EOS Well I couldn’t go any higher
cos I worked myself. EOS You see. So- EOS I was invited to join you
know. EOS And that was good. And that gave me a lot of confidence- EOS
because they have to stand up and s- give a talk once a year. EOS And
I was still very bad stammering. And erm when it was my t- turn the
first time they said ‘Edmund **anon** you don’t have to do it if you
don’t want’. EOS I said I’m going to make them have it you know. But I
did it okay because they’re all on your side. EOS That’s the best part
of it. EOS So I w- I was in t- twenty one years in Rotary. I was ch-
chairman of the community section which looked after the area you know
and I loved- EOS I like local charity work- EOS Mm. Yeah. Yeah. EOS
and looking after the area where I know. And whenever it was my turn
to speak th- the president would announce it the week before that next
weeks speaker is Edmund Jacobs **anon**- EOS and we’re extending the
lunch half an hour EOS But all that helped you. EOS And do you know
what I ended up there doing? I was speaker’s EOS And yeah. Now that
was a good p- part of my life. EOS An- and the wife was in- i- in the
ladies section. I was invited every year to be president but because
you had to visit other clubs I’ve turned it down. But my wife acc- c-
cepted the ladies side of it. EOS so I used to go out for free meals
with her then. EOS So tha- that was it. Yeah but in those days Rotary
was nearly consisted of- EOS doctors, surgeons, solicitors. All local
people. All the shops in Urmston were owned b- by the actual owner.
They were privately owned. EOS And they were all members of the Rotary
Club. But there’s none left EOS You’ve got the dentist. You’ve got
them all sorts of- all walks of life as a member. EOS And erm but it’s
gone now. You can’t walk into any shop without its being a big c-
concern. EOS I mean there’s not a- a lot of these shops like **anon**
left EOS where you can s- s- see the owner. EOS They’ve gone. That’s
the personal touch that’s gone. EOS Yeah you’re right. EOS Because I
was- a lady I rented me shop off she said to me cos her’s was a- next
door she says ‘let me give you a bit of advice. Get a good EOS and
never lose the personal touch’. EOS And you’re always there to- EOS
That’s the thing with the chain stores isn’t it. EOS Well it is yeah.
EOS They don’t have the personal touches and- EOS It’s sad that isn’t
it you know. EOS And like I said earlier on the buses were always on
time. EOS I mean I had to be at work for eight o’clock . Excuse me.
And if I missed the twenty five past seven there was one at half past.
EOS And if I missed the half past there was one at twenty five to. And
the twenty five to just got me there. EOS You know. But there wasn’t
as m- many p- people on the roads then- EOS so the b- buses weren’t
held up. EOS Erm have you got anything else for a- a minute? EOS Well
I’m on this- what do local people like? EOS What do the local people
like? EOS Well where I- where I live in **anon** I’ve got- I’ve got
good EOS You know. Erm I mean at the back there’s no houses it’s just
fields EOS I do have good erm some people- EOS Well I’ve noticed that
now. EOS Yeah very ni- EOS Now I’m you know on- on my own. EOS
Everybody knows me. I know them. EOS bet you chat to them all EOS And
erm- and a- a lady opposite with her husband you know. And when I go
out at all in the evening which is not- I don’t like to go out now.
It’s not safe for- EOS older people to go out and that’s one of the
sad things of life which I’ll go back to in a minute that. It’s
reminded me of something. Erm I’ve got to let this lady know I’m going
out and w- when I’ll be back. EOS Which is good. EOS So she can keep
an eye on you. EOS It’s to keep an eye on me cos she knows if- if I
don’t get up in the morning something’s happened don’t they. EOS You
know what they used to like Fearne **anon**? EOS Christmas time. Go
into Manchester looking at **anon** arcade. EOS Oh **anon** aye. EOS
When it was Christmas it- **anon** had long windows down the side of
an EOS The other side of the arcade was **anon** and erm every window
was decorated at Christmas with animation and animals and moving and
there was a real spirit of Christmas. EOS And people used to go down
especially just to look in the windows when it was closed. EOS Now I
came to Urmston on Sunday and I drove th- th- through Urmston- excuse
me and nearly every window was shuttered. EOS Metal shutters. Well in
my youth you could walk and look in all the EOS Enjoy yourself.
Nowhere was open EOS but today it’s all ‘keep out’ shutters- EOS Keep
it. Yeah. Keep out, yeah EOS you know. We don’t want you and all like
that and- EOS No, yeah, yeah. EOS And I saw s- something the other day
that disgusted me really. EOS House for sale sign and they’ve got to
s- s- set them alight these days. Well what do they get out of it? EOS
This is it- EOS W- w- what do you get out of damaging anything? EOS
Mm. It’s the same you know a car’s been stolen. They burn it don’t EOS
Many times in **anon**- EOS they’re forced to put these new railings
up at that big school. EOS Many time- I- and we used to go in there
and we used to look after the dogs. And they used to take the dogs in
there. EOS I kept them on the lead cos they weren’t my dogs. EOS And
erm I used to take you know a doggy bag with me. EOS Anyway you always
see- every now and again you see cars been burned. EOS Oh yeah, yeah.
EOS And I f- I feel sorry for the person. EOS The person yeah. EOS You
know. Find out one morning the car’s not there. EOS Yeah. You can’t- I
can’t understand- EOS I- I can’t understand why they can’t- why they
do this kind of thing. EOS Did you want to ask us any questions? Are
w- are w- are we running out of time? EOS Erm you’ve got t- ten
minutes. EOS My g- my- EOS Can I just say? Erm my wife and I we- a lot
of people don’t like EOS I had one and I used to hold people up on the
road. You know. EOS we did about th- th- thirty years you know. But
when I- I- I retired my s- we’ll go up into a motorhome which was as
fast as a car could go. EOS And I’ve been all over England, Scotland
and Wales and our hobby when I r- retired was adopting the old guide
dogs. EOS Oh yeah I . EOS Oh I loved doing that and I’ve got five
dogs’ ashes in the back EOS And I’m an emotional person and the first
dog we adopted w- was- the owner was blind and deaf. Yeah blind and
deaf. So he had to be with a g- guide dog but he couldn’t hear as
well. EOS God that must be difficult. EOS So that was difficult. EOS
So the pers- so w- got her you know y- y- you’re interviewed at home
to see if you’re suitable. EOS And w- when you get the dog they come
back in a fortnight to make sure that you’re- the dogs are settled.
EOS And we- oh we went to this dog called Honey. And the day before we
got a phone call from the guide dogs. He says ‘I hope you don’t mind
he wants to meet you’. I said ‘no I don’t mind’ you know. And erm- so
we went down and we met him. M- m- my wife sat beside him and
questions were asked and if it meant just a yes or a- a no answer- EOS
my wife had to either t- t- t- tap his hand for yes. I forget which
way round or- EOS rub it for no you know. EOS And anyway the- he had
a- like a- a machine tha- a braille machine. EOS And the guide dog
people used to t- t- type the message in and he picked it up. EOS So
that- but he must’ve gone deaf later in life cos he could still EOS So
he could talk to us, anyhow, after half an hour he’d- he’d handed over
the- the- the lead to my wife. He’d handed over the dog’s tablets. He
had his other dog there- EOS but he was handing over his eyes and his
ears. EOS And after half an hour they said to me ‘Mr Jacobs **anon**
will you t- t- take the dog’s lead and go’. Well I got outside there
and I thought I’ve taken his eyes and ears away and I cried my eyes
out. and they had to take me for a cup of tea you know. EOS It’s- it’s
a traumatic situation- EOS Yeah. I’ve- I’ve done a lot of erm- I do a
lot of charity work for- EOS for animals you know. EOS Oh okay Yeah.
EOS And I- you know you had coppers I’d save them in a carrier bag.
EOS Sainsbury’s carrier bag and I take them down to erm Sale. EOS the,
you know, for sick animals. That’s what I did because I love animals
you know. I don’t like to see people to be cruel you know. EOS Oh no
no. EOS Well I seen a greyhound near- in Partington- EOS I don’t know
who it belongs to but it had a- like a- one of these white collars you
know. EOS Oh yeah. Yeah. EOS I don’t know if it had escaped from a
greyhound thing or what. EOS Mm somebody owned it yeah. EOS Or- it
came up to me friendly. EOS I was watching these- these lads you know.
They’re always drinking frigging beer. Wha- you know. EOS Yeah oh I
know. Yeah mm. EOS I didn- I saw this- this chap ‘go away, go a-
away’. EOS And I thought leave him alone. Poor thing’s not doing any
harm. EOS Yeah of course he’s not hurting anyone. EOS And I took some
biscuits out with me last night. EOS and he wasn’t there. EOS No so I
don’t know who- who owns it. But it’s a- it’s a shame you EOS Well,
when- when we had ordinary dogs you know pet dogs before we started to
adopt- EOS Oh that’s right. We got to the end of the- I- with the
guide dogs. EOS I was saying I don’t think I can have another because
of walking them. So the vet came out with the dogs. He says ‘this dogs
are l- these dogs are lovely to walk’. T- twenty minutes a day and
they spent the rest of the time by the fire. And that was a greyhound.
EOS So erm anyway I- I never got round to it because me doggy died and
then me wife died. EOS And on your own you can’t look after a dog. EOS
But just going back to life. Fearne **anon** and myself go to church.
EOS Now whether that’s made us any better people I don’t know. EOS
Well it does with me because I mean I do believe. You know. EOS I’m- I
am a Christian and I do believe. EOS And I do a lot for **anon**
church in **anon**. EOS And I help out with the Sunday School as well
you see- EOS with the children. The lady what’s been doing it for a-
a- well her EOS She’d been doing it for a long time. She does all the
work you know EOS And I just go in with her to help her you know. EOS
that’s what I’m going to do as well. EOS I enjoyed ch- church. Really
enjoyed it. Been all me life cos I was first introduced when I was
five. EOS With going to a church school. EOS And then a church school.
And then I was in the best youth club of all which was a church and
then I moved away from the church w- when I got married first time.
Never went back. And I’ve been a very active member involved in doing
everything. EOS And enjoyed it. Now I won’t mention any names or where
I’m going but this vicar doesn’t get the best out of me. EOS Yeah, and
it’s sad that. EOS And he knows it. He’s a nice chap. Great with my
wife when she was EOS I mean, he said to us m- me daughter ‘any time
night or day you want me call me’. EOS Well me wife died at home. Five
o clock in the mor- morning. EOS I was lucky that night that I had erm
a nurse f- from **anon** who was EOS Cos I wouldn’t have known what to
do on me own properly. EOS So I rang me daughter up. She came and she
said ‘I’m going to ring EOS And he was w- with us within half an hour.
EOS So he- he- he was good on that side. EOS When you really needed
him he was there and I think being a church m- member has helped me a
lot in life. EOS I- I’m very honest. I’m very sincere. I talk a lot.
EOS I l- I like to listen to you you know. I like to listen to you EOS
I’ve got hundreds of stories that I can’t- EOS But is it- an- nearly
up yet?