 Yeah. EOS One two three. EOS That’s fine. EOS W- EOS One two three.
Erm yeah th- that’s fine. EOS Do you want my name? EOS Oh no that’s
fine. Erm you can start now- EOS Oh- right. EOS Whenever you’re ready.
Thank you. EOS Go on then. You start then dear. EOS Well do you r- .
EOS What’s her f- EOS Can you switch off if you don’t think it’s
right? We were both born and brought up in in Salford. Is that the-
EOS Yeah that’s fine. EOS Yep. EOS Erm you lived across- we- EOS I
lived across the f- there was a football pitch. I lived at one end and
you- EOS And I- I lived with my grandma and mum and dad. Erm and she
had what they called then a corner shop- EOS Oh. EOS which s- it sold
everything. Bread and milk and erm we lived with her because she’d
just lost her husband and bought this shop and erm my dad was a
painter and decorator and had a lot of out of work. EOS And he used to
get three- he- EOS He- he worked for himself. He had his own business.
EOS He didn’t then. EOS Oh no he didn’t **inc** EOS And he used to get
three pounds a week- EOS Wow. EOS to keep us all and he used to give
it my grandma. And in return he used to get a couple of packets of
cigarettes. EOS So erm you lived across. EOS I lived across yes-
across the pitch. EOS Erm and during the war, just after the war she
used to put cigarettes under the counter for you didn’t she? EOS
**inc** I- I didn’t smoke then but I erm- I worked as a erm motor
mechanic and the lads there, there was quite a lot of them smoked and
you couldn’t get cigarettes because they were under the counter. EOS
Oh. EOS ‘Would you go and ask your girlfriend’s grandma’ . EOS Erm
would she let us have some cigarettes. Which she used to like- EOS Mm,
mm EOS let us have a few packets now and again. EOS But erm I didn’t
have any brothers and sisters. EOS But there were lots and lots of
children. EOS Mm. EOS And erm we used to play outside on the erm
pavement. There were no gardens. It was just erm streets in . And erm
we used to chalk the flags and play hop-scotch and erm play ball
against the wall. And erm hide and seek in peoples’ doors and I have
been known to knock on doors and run away. EOS And I got a good smack
off my mother for doing that because she caught me. And erm we used to
erm- we never went far away from where we lived and everywhere was
very safe. There was no- EOS Mm. EOS no erm hint of any people- EOS
Danger. EOS doing wrong things to children. EOS Not like there is
today. EOS There was nothing like that. EOS Mm. EOS No. EOS Where I
lived anyway. Erm as I say my grandma had a shop. EOS Erm I can
remember bread being four pence and milk being four pence at the same
time. And erm she used to have this machine where she cut all the
bacon up by hand with a machine that you turned a handle. And she had
loads of sweets in one window and I was not allowed to touch them- EOS
unless I asked her could I have some. Now I was allowed but if I was
caught taking any I got another smack off me mother across my legs.
EOS She was a very strict- yeah. B: And it never ever did me any harm.
Erm and I did have to help out in the house because we used to stone
the steps. We used to stone the step of the shop and stone the window
ledges of the house- EOS Mm **inc**. EOS all the way round. And stone
the back steps- EOS The back yard yeah. EOS with a- a brown stone or a
cream stone. And while I was doing it I was told to do next door so I
had to do those as well. EOS And erm what about you? What did you do?
EOS What did I do? EOS When you were young. What did you play? EOS
Well I used to pla- play a lot of football. EOS Yeah. EOS I used to
love football and of course facing the house was this big football
pitch . EOS Which was horrible surface. EOS Which was- EOS Oh was it?
EOS int- in- incidentally- it wasn’t- EOS It was like cinders. EOS I
was a cinder pitch really. When you fell down it- it used to take part
of your knee cap off. EOS Ouch. EOS So constant- constantly you had
black marks on your knees EOS where the cinders had gone in. EOS Mm.
EOS And erm but I used to love playing football and erm I used to also
like repairing bicycles. EOS But what- also what did you used to do?
You used to go on the hills at which was near prison. EOS Oh no. EOS
And what did you used to do there? You used to go swimming in the- EOS
Swimming in these- EOS horrible dirty filthy water. EOS Yeah. EOS When
you think about it yes. EOS There was they were like erm they were
like big clay pits and they’d filled with water and we used to go
swimming in there. I’d- Many a time I’d cut my foot, my legs because
there was broken bottle- EOS Oh no. EOS There was old prams in there.
EOS Terrible when you think of it. EOS When I think about it now. EOS
I mean I wasn’t allowed. EOS Yeah. EOS I didn’t know this went on
until we started to go out as erm w- when I was about fifteen or
sixteen. Keith used to mend my bike and I used to go for chips for all
the erm- EOS All the- all the- EOS boys and girls that were all round
on the corner there. EOS But erm **inc** EOS But m- us best or
funniest memory was during the war and erm we used to go- w- we had a
back yard and it had a little garden ine itwith a beautiful tree in
it. The erm- EOS Oh erm th- what’s- the elderber- EOS elderflower
tree. EOS Elderflower. EOS So we did have a bit of a- a little bit of
garden but this brick- they came and built these brick shelters. I
can’t remember w- w- how- the shelter being built. EOS But my dad made
it very nice inside with beds and we had erm some kind of a light in
there and erm my grandma would never ever come down when the air raids
went. EOS Yeah. EOS And it was very frightening- EOS Mm. EOS and it
must’ve been very frightening for them but I was only nine, ten. EOS
Mm. EOS And it- to me it was a big adventure. EOS And one night my dad
was a- an ARP warden like you see on erm Dad’s Army. EOS And erm one
night they dropped all these incendiary bombs on this pitch at the
back of our house. EOS **inc** and they hit erm- EOS And erm- EOS the
prison. EOS my dad- EOS prison that night. EOS Oh. EOS My dad dragged
the dustbin out which in those days they were metal dustbins. EOS Mm.
EOS He dragged it outside and he said ‘come on Brenda and help me fill
it with water because w- we’re going to have to put all these fires
out’. And I was running backwards and forwards and passing him all
this water. And erm we put the light on. EOS And I said to him ‘daddy
this water’s not going- there’s no water in it’. And unfortunately in
the- so it- to me it’s very funny this. EOS We were dashing backwards
and forwards with this buckets of water and there was a big hole in
the dustbin. EOS So as fast as we were p- EOS , EOS Putting the water
in it was running out. EOS putting the water in EOS Oh no EOS Yeah EOS
So that to me is a- a long- it’s- I mean it’s a long time ago and I
remember that and it was very funny. EOS And erm when these bombs
these incendiary bombs dropped they dropped one outside a lamp post.
You used to have big lamp posts in those days. I don’t know what- what
were those lamp posts erm- EOS They used to be gas. EOS Gas. EOS Gas
lit. EOS Mm. EOS And erm m- EOS Well they were, they were ga- EOS I’ve
never seen my grandma come down the stairs as quick. EOS She’d never
ever got up. She used to stay in bed. But she was down those stairs.
EOS And one night me mother came out and she’d got the budgie on her
head. EOS Oh no . EOS So she had to t- and I said m- I used to call
her mammy ‘mammy’. The- I for- forget what the bird was called. EOS
‘So and so’s on your head’. Sh- She turned quickly back and went you
know went back in the house so that was another funny memory. EOS And
erm- about parents- EOS Erm what I used to do was erm when I think
about it now I would never let my sons do that. But erm I used to erm
when the air raids were on- EOS Mm. EOS I used to go out with a- a
bucket and a pair of coal tongs and I’d be picking shrapnel up. EOS Oh
EOS You’d- you’d- you’d be s- listening ye- and you’d hear it going
‘shhhhh’ down the road. And you could see it was white hot. When I
think that really that my parents let me go out- EOS Mm. EOS picking
the sh- the shrapnel- EOS Mm. EOS the pieces of shrapnel up. I had
buckets and buckets of it. EOS did you? EOS And we used to swap it
with one another you know. It- it- if it had got the German erm- erm-
EOS emblem on you used to erm swap it for something else. EOS Mm. EOS
Incendiary bombs had the German mark on. EOS Mmhmm. EOS And erm- EOS
But as I say we were children. It was an adventure to us. EOS Yeah.
EOS Erm I- I th- I thought it was great- EOS But can you imagine if it
happened now. I’d be absolutely- EOS Yeah. EOS Mm. EOS frightened to
death. EOS When you know what’s going on. EOS You would. It- it would
be a very frightening experience cos my mother was a very nervous
lady. EOS Yeah. EOS And she must’ve been absolutely frightened to
death. EOS Terrified yeah. But on this football pitch facing they dug
it all up and put the biggest air raid shelter you’ve ever seen on the
ground. EOS Really? EOS Yeah. And we used to go in there. It- it was
terrible. It was t- EOS Well I never went in. EOS Oh the- the smell.
EOS My mother wouldn’t go in there so- EOS But we- we had a- EOS Mm.
EOS one built in the back erm- the back yard. EOS Yeah they built
these brick- EOS Brick solid- EOS They were very strong brick. I meant
there were different types of shelters. EOS Mm. EOS My auntie who
lived in Urmston she had one and it was called a Morrison and it was
like a big cage. EOS A- anderson ones. They- EOS Mm. EOS Just like a
big cage. A Morrison. EOS Oh that was the Morrison yes. EOS And erm
she used to have a lovely- a lovely embroidered cloth on it- EOS and
flowers. And if the sirens went she used to go under there with her
husband. They had no children. Erm and then there were the Anderson
ones with people in the garden. You used to go down into those. EOS
Mm. EOS But erm m- there was w- called a blitz. Erm it was a christmas
blitz wasn’t it? EOS Yes that was the biggest . EOS Nineteen forty-
forty one. And my grandparents lived in which is in- still in Salford.
And when I think of it now they wouldn’t have allowed a child but I
was ten and my mother put me on the bus where we lived- EOS mm. EOS to
go and see- ‘go and see if your grandma’s alright.’ And I went on my
own you know th- EOS Mm. EOS it would be unheard of now wouldn’t it?
EOS Yeah. EOS And erm when I got there the street had been bombed- EOS
It’d gone. EOS and all the houses the curtains the windows were all
blown out. EOS Oh. EOS And I stood at the top of this street and I
cried. EOS Mm. EOS And this man came to me and he said ‘what’s the
matter?’ and I said ‘I’ve come to see my grandma and look at the
house’. He said ‘don’t worry I’ll take you’. They’ve taken them to th-
what they called a rest centre and it was in a church. EOS Church
yeah. EOS And he took me there. Now in this day and age I didn’t know
the man. EOS Mm. EOS Well you know y- EOS when you think. Erm there
was no- EOS I think- EOS there was none of that fear. EOS I think you
were safer then than you are today. EOS Oh yeah. EOS It’s- EOS I do
really think so. EOS Y- you never heard of people being murdered and
stabbed and- EOS No no. EOS and like I say you used- you used- you
used to t- travel quite a way on your own didn’t you? EOS Yes you did.
EOS **inc** young. Going to school. EOS Oh yes. I went to school. Was-
**inc** yeah- EOS Which is quite a way from- EOS I went to- I went to
School. Before that I went to School and my mother used to take me and
bring me home four times a day. EOS Really? EOS She used to take me in
the morning. Come home. Come for me at lunchtime. We used to go
through a- and a park called Park which is still there. Take me back.
Then come for me back again in the afternoon. EOS And then I went to
School EOS and I used to walk there e- but if me mother could afford
it I used to go on the bus. EOS Mm. EOS And it was a g- a long way
from where I lived. EOS It was a long way yes. EOS So erm that school
isn’t there anymore School. It was called Bella Vista because it was
the consul at one time. EOS Yeah. EOS And it was a beautiful house. It
was really lovely. So erm and what do you remember from your first day
at school? I cried and cried- EOS and the Headmistress was called and
she said to my mother ‘leave her, she’ll be alright’ and I sat at side
on a chair for three weeks. EOS And she said to me mother ‘she’ll get
fed up before I will’. EOS Mm. EOS So that was- I hated it and I was
very upset and eventually - I got very friendly with her and she
eventually erm persuaded me to go into the classroom . EOS No I never
got into trouble at school. I was quite a good child I think. EOS We-
talking about holidays we erm w- never had any holidays. Th- th- the
erm- EOS oh switch it off. EOS That alright? Is that ok? EOS Yeah
that’s fine. Don’t worry. EOS Hello Telephone conversation omitted EOS
No thank you EOS They’ve got ten eight hundred and thirty four pound
vouchers to give out. So I don’t- EOS Sounds a bit odd. EOS oh,
they’re always sending me- EOS No I- I never had- I never went on
holiday. The only holiday I’ve ever had was- EOS You had a lot of
brothers and sisters. EOS I- I did. EOS I was an only child. EOS Yes I
had erm four brothers and one sister. And erm- but we never had
holidays. Only days out to Blackpool. EOS Mm. EOS But my- one of my
brothers- I had four half b- brothers. Step brothers. And erm he- he
was a mechanic and erm he- he- he used to do quite well and he said
‘if you save your spends up’ which was about in today’s money about
five p a week- EOS erm ‘you can come away with me’ and he had a m- a
car which in the- those days was fantastic you know. EOS Mm. EOS If
somebody had a motorcar- EOS Well if you had a friend that was a car-
EOS Yeah. EOS that had a car it was absolutely marvellous. K: Well he
had a car and erm and erm he- he said ‘save your- save your spends up
and I’ll take you erm away for a week’. And he did and we w- went to
Wales and when I was sat at- I can see myself now sat in that car. And
I- I was hoping all my friends could see me - EOS yeah. EOS going away
on holiday. And that was about the best holiday I ever had then- EOS
Mm. EOS as- as child cos I never went away again after that. Like I
say we used to go, **inc** EOS now and again they’d take us to
Blackpool on the train. EOS Mm. EOS For a day. But erm that was it.
EOS Well I went to Blackpool once a year for a week. And what you did
it was a- I forget what they called it. It wasn’t self-catering but
you bought the food and the person that you were staying with erm she
cooked it for you. EOS Th- th- they- c- cooked it for you yeah. EOS Oh
ok. EOS I don’t know what they called it but th- they did a lot of
that in those days and that street it’s or . It’s still there in
Blackpool and we went once a week- erm once a year for a week. **inc**
can I go- move onto that one? EOS Yeah, whatever. EOS Yeah. Oh I did
get hurt while- when I was playing as a child. Like Keith said erm I
fell on this what we called a rec. We called it the rec didn’t we? EOS
Yeah th- it was a- yeah we called it a rec. EOS I- I- It was short for
recreation ground EOS mm EOS but we called it the rec and I fell on
there. EOS Ooh and I had terrible knees. EOS I had- EOS and erm- EOS I
always had- EOS They were awful- EOS and we’d gone to- my mother had
bound them up and we’d gone to visit me grandma who was a- she was a
lovely lady and they lived in . And she said ‘what’s she done?’ and my
mother told her and she looked at it and she said ‘get those bandages
off’ because they’d all pussed over. EOS Oh no. EOS She said erm ‘let
it- let- get the air to them’. I can always remember it and within a-
a day they’d- they’d all dried up. So - EOS I’ve always remembered
that ever since . Your home town. Shall we go onto home town? EOS Yeah
you can do yeah. EOS A- EOS Do you want me to talk or- EOS Yeah go on
I’ll- EOS are you going to say where were your parents from? EOS Oh
parents from. Well erm my parents erm my father worked at erm- EOS
from , from . EOS Oh my- my- m- m- my erm mother’s family originate
from . EOS Oh okay. EOS That’s where erm- that’s where they were erm
born. But my father worked at Erm, which was at Gorton. were
locomotive engineers and he used to cy- EOS They made the big steam
trains you know. EOS Steam trains and that. EOS Oh ok. EOS And he used
to erm cycle from erm all the way to Gorton every- EOS Wow. EOS and
back again which is a heck of a way . Like I say in- in regards to
toys I’ve had very, very little toys. But my father had some cowboys
and indians made. He- he g- he got the erm the chaps at work th- that
make the erm moulds in- they made these erm moulds for soldiers and
cowboys and he- he made- he made them out of solid lead. When you
think now, EOS I used t- they weren’t painted when- and I got them for
Christmas and when I think I used to play with lead soldiers . EOS
Yeah . EOS You know which is really harmful for you. But that was the
only erm toys I had and I had them for years I was playing with those.
EOS My interests when I was a child, I’ve just seen that there, erm
was music. I learned to play the piano. EOS Oh. EOS And erm I- I loved
music in any- any form really. EOS Mm. EOS And I still do. I still
sing and erm we have a music group at church but of course that’s- i-
that’s lo- current at the moment but me parents, my father was born in
and my mother was born in erm- down erm in Salford in . EOS Mm. EOS So
erm I don’t know why me- me father came to live in Salford but erm my
mother’s never been anywhere- no she was born here. EOS And erm I’ve
got a picture of her when she was a little girl. So she’d- she was
born in nineteen hundred and two so it’s quite and old picture . EOS
yeah. EOS And if you ever want any old pictures I’ve got them. EOS
Erm- erm we didn’t move house at all. Erm we went to live in that shop
as I say with my grandma and the next move we made was when she died
and they sold the house, my mother and father, and we went to live in
. We were still in Salford and erm Keith was in the army weren’t y-
nati- doing his national sh- service. EOS Yeah. EOS And erm we married
from the house in didn’t we. EOS Well I was in the army. EOS Yes he
was in the army. EOS Because erm- erm then i- it was a s- sergeant
said to me- he said- I told him that I was en- engaged- EOS Mm. EOS to
be married when I came out of the army. He said ‘well really you’d be
better marrying because you’ll get marriage allowance’. EOS Oh. EOS So
w- we arranged didn’t we- EOS Yes- EOS I’d been in the army about- EOS
and I was twenty one. EOS Yeah. EOS And y- Keith was twenty two when
we got married. Mm. EOS So we did erm get married- EOS Yeah. EOS and
erm and of course Brenda got the erm- the erm marriage allowance and
saved it up and we had a nice little nest egg didn’t we- EOS Mm. EOS
when- when I came out. EOS And that’s when I came up to from with a
friend who was looking at some houses erm on the front there, near .
EOS Mm. EOS They were building those semis r- just round the corner
when you go towards the Trafford Centre. EOS Yeah. EOS There’s some
semis there- EOS Yeah. EOS and erm and she went to look at those and
then we came to look at these on and I liked these. EOS No we- we
brought them up didn’t we and y- your father’s- EOS No, no that was
after. EOS Oh. EOS That was after. No I brought erm I can’t remember
her name now. No you weren’t very friendly with her but then- EOS Mm.
EOS I saw these and went back home and told Keith and that’s- that’s
when we came to live in . EOS In- in th- EOS In this house in . Yeah.
EOS Fifty five years ago. EOS Yeah. EOS Wow. EOS Mm. EOS Yeah. EOS Mm.
EOS And we- we paid one thousand eight hundred and fifty pounds. EOS
No one thousand six hundred and fifty pounds. EOS Oh one thousand six
hundred and fifty pounds for it. EOS Sixteen hundred and fifty. EOS
Amazing. EOS Eh. It’s amazing isn’t it? EOS Yeah. It is. EOS But we
brought a friend with us who was my son- my eldest son’s godfather and
they lived in . And he was a very astute man and a very good man and
a- we really were very fond of him. And he came with us to look at
them and my dad was very much against us buying it. He said ‘you’ve
got a milstone round your neck’. That’s what he said. EOS But we were
very happy living with your parents. EOS Oh yes- EOS They had that big
house in and- EOS we were very, very happy. And erm my mother- and he-
my mother thought the world of Keith and he thought the world of her.
Erm but erm this friend of ours came to talk me dad round to say that
he had bought his house and it was three hundred and forty pounds. EOS
And that was- EOS And that was a milstone round their neck but it
wasn’t anymore. EOS No. EOS And he said eventually it will be
beneficial to them. So that’s- he talked my dad round and- EOS Well
the thing was you could rent a house then. EOS Mm. EOS You could rent
houses. EOS Mm. EOS There was- there was plenty to rent. EOS Mm. EOS I
mean not like n- not like today. EOS But we just liked these houses.
We thought they were absolutely lovely and erm m- m- what it- what was
it we hadn’t got money for? Erm- EOS Oh the erm- EOS and my dad lent
us the twenty five pounds. EOS we didn’t have the money for the erm
the rest of the money for the deposit. EOS Mm. EOS It was a hundred
pound deposit. EOS Mm. EOS We’d paid forty but there was sixty
outstanding and w- we k- kept coming round and having a look and it’s-
once they got the roof on they wanted the balance. EOS Mm. EOS Oh. EOS
And I thought- the came and they’d got the roof on. EOS And by the
Keith wasn’t a mechanic. He was working for me father who was a
painter and decorator and you had to have e- eleven pounds a week
wages. They wouldn’t take the wife then. EOS Oh. EOS It was just the
husband it- EOS you know if you were working that didn’t matter. EOS
And I was earning ten pounds. EOS And he was earning ten and me- my
dad said to Keith ‘well tell them you’re earning eleven but I can’t
afford to give you that’. EOS so EOS And he- he lent us the money for
the erm- EOS Yeah. EOS the balance. EOS But when you think of those
figures. EOS Yeah. EOS I know. EOS But you see it just- it goes on and
on. EOS Yeah it does. EOS I meant when- when you get older you’ll
think well fancy those prices that we paid then. EOS Yeah. EOS So erm
yeah. Erm in your opinion how has the community changed in recent
years? Well I think it changed tr- tremendously. Tremendously. There’s
a lot of terrible things happen now that I don’t think did happen
then. Children are- are not safe anymore like they used to be. And
erm- EOS You can’t afford to take your eyes off them can you. EOS and
everything is so expensive to take them anywhere. EOS Mm. EOS I mean
my son has just been away with four and he said when you go in a- just
for a coffee. EOS It’s six coff- well five coffees or five drinks. EOS
Mm. EOS And it’s so expensive isn’t it. EOS Yeah. EOS But erm
everything has- has really gone up in price. EOS The most important
changes have taken place in your town. EOS Mm well- EOS Well when we
came round here from erm- from we thought we were coming to live in
the country- EOS In the country. EOS Right. EOS It was beautiful. EOS
It was so quiet- EOS Mm. EOS and erm- EOS Mm. EOS You could park
anywhere in Urmston and erm- but now I think it’s- EOS And we liked
Urmston as it was. EOS It- well w- we did yeah. EOS But I mean now I
think they’ve just made a mess of it. EOS Mm. EOS because it’s part
finished and- EOS Yeah. EOS and they’re not saying- they’re saying
until they- I think they- somebody said that they’ve run out of money
the developers. EOS Yeah I think they have. EOS And erm- so it’s just
a mess I think. EOS I think they expected more people to erm buy those
apartments- EOS I think- EOS in the centre, but then- EOS Yeah and
they haven’t done. No. EOS No. EOS No. No they haven’t. And I think
they’re the ugliest looking things. EOS Yep EOS We only said the other
day look at all that horrible wood. EOS **inc** timber. EOS Mm. EOS
Where’s the design in that? EOS I know. EOS **inc** it’s not- EOS And
then of course a build-up of erm- I’m not objecting to the Trafford
Centre but the Chill Factor and erm all these big things that keep
going up. It’s just lost it’s erm I don’t know, prettiness really. It
used to be a pretty village more or less Davyhulme. And I know things
have got to progress but I don’t- I hate all these great big things
that are going up. EOS Yeah. EOS And erm I don’t know. Local people-
EOS but we remember the first erm- EOS We remember the- EOS shopping
centre being built in Urmston. EOS Yeah. EOS The precinct there. EOS
Yeah. EOS And it was nice. EOS It was nice before. EOS It was a nice
precinct that. EOS It- no it was nice before that they did that I
thought. EOS Mm mm. EOS It was quite quaint. I’ve s- I’ve got loads of
pictures of that. EOS Mm. EOS How it used to be . But erm- EOS But I
do think there’s a lot of community things happening now like erm the
man that owns that . EOS Yeah. EOS Now f- I think it’s the third year
now that he’s put this community erm- EOS The summer- EOS sort of a
carnival type thing hasn’t he. EOS Yeah. EOS In the grammar school
gardens and I think- we went because my granddaughters were dancing.
EOS Ah. EOS They go to . EOS Mm. EOS And they were doing this dancing
group and we went to watch them and I just thought it was lovely. EOS
Yeah. EOS Yes. EOS All the people- local people all mingling with one
another. EOS Mmhmm EOS And I really- I r- it really uplifted me to see
them all having a good time and there was no trouble. EOS Yeah. EOS
Erm and I think the community spirit here is better and hope it will
get better. EOS Mm. EOS Erm the carnival on Saturday- there’s the
carnival on Saturday and for the first time there’s erm an ecumenical
church tent being erected. EOS Right. EOS And they’re giving free teas
and cakes. In fact we’re involved with it. EOS Mm. EOS And it’s the
first time they’ve done that and erm hope- hopefully well they will be
telling people all about the things that go on in all the churches.
Hopefully we might get a few more people to come. EOS Yeah. EOS But
it’s still a community thing and I think- EOS Gets people together
yeah. EOS it’s a good thing for the community EOS Mmhmm EOS Yeah I li-
I- EOS Yeah and erm there’s not really- when you look at the
television and see all the horrible things that happen in other towns.
I don’t know I’ve never heard of anything horrible - EOS No I haven’t
EOS happening in Urmston at night. EOS No. EOS So I just hope that
erm- there’s- I think there’s quite a long of thing to ha- to do in
this community if you’re willing to erm- EOS you know different erm-
erm what- what can I call them, different groups. So you needn’t be
bored. There’s lots to do really. EOS Yeah. EOS If you go out and look
for it. What’s your- do you agree with me? You see- EOS Yes I d- EOS
we’re very involved in church so I’ve always got something to do. EOS
Mm. EOS I mean I’m going out tonight. No I’m going out tomorrow and
erm going out next week all the meetings start so I’ll be out about
three nights a week which is erm- is very good. EOS Mm. EOS Mm. Right
. EOS **inc** erm- erm. EOS I think it’s very sad that erm TJ Hughes
has gone from Stretford. EOS Yeah. EOS I think it’ll be a- make a big
difference to Stretford erm- erm town centre. Erm cos I like- I like
that erm shopping precinct. It’s pleasant and it’s warm and- EOS Mm.
EOS erm it’s somewhere for people to meet. I don’t know what’s going
to happen there. EOS Did you ever get into trouble at school? Going
back a bit now aren’t I really. EOS Does it matter? EOS No of course
it doesn’t. EOS No it doesn’t matter? Yep . EOS Did you get into
trouble? I didn’t- EOS Yeah- oh no you didn’t, no. EOS I was perfect
EOS Hey we- we used to c- I went to School first and from there I went
to school, . And on the way home from when we were at erm- EOS erm the
erm- we used to pass this house that had a cherry tree hanging over
the wall. And ev- everyday you passed it seemed to get redder and
redder these cherries and me and my friends one day we thought I think
we’ll have some of those . EOS And we climbed on the wall and just
pulled a little bunch down and we both had one each. And they were
horrible. EOS oh no. EOS But we didn’t- unknown to us there was
policeman behind us who grabbed us EOS and took us back to school. And
erm the next morning we had to come out in front of the- all the
assembly and the pair of us were brought out to the front and- and the
teacher erm- the teacher said- the Headteacher said I’d have- we’d
have to go to his room after and of course we were- our heads down and
we both got the cane on both hands. And when we used to walk past that
house with those cherry trees EOS we used to have our hands in our
pockets . EOS Mm. EOS Yeah well I think there again- I think it’s gone
from the sublime to the ridiculous. EOS Yes you’re not allowed to
touch- EOS Because I think it’s digusting now that children have got
no respect- EOS Mm. EOS for policemen and really a lot of them have
not got any respect for anybody. EOS Anybody. No. EOS And they try and
blame everybody bar the parents. EOS I know. The riots were terrible
weren’t they. EOS Oh that- EOS Oh that was terrible. Well what’s
uplifted me was the m- the all those young people going in and
cleaning up. EOS Yeah. EOS Yes. EOS I thought that was wonderful EOS
Yeah. That was brilliant. EOS And some of them looked- I thought golly
you’d- EOS yeah. EOS You know so you can’t tell by how people look.
EOS No you’re right. EOS No. EOS But I do think it’s erm you know that
being allowed to throw stones at policemen. I was frightened to death
of policemen. EOS Oh yes. Y- EOS I- that was silly but I’d rather it
be like that- EOS Mm. EOS than like it is now. I mean policemen are
there to erm to keep- EOS To protect the- EOS to protect people- EOS
protect the public. Yeah th- EOS and the public. EOS And they get a
terrible lot of bad pub- publicity. EOS Yeah. EOS And I know maybe
there are some sadistic policemen but most of them are very good and
decent men. EOS Yeah. EOS And erm I just think it’s awful that
children should be taught to have more respect. EOS Mm. EOS Erm and I
still blame the parents for a lot of these children. EOS Yeah. EOS Yes
it’s sad really. I- EOS And I think a lot of these children as well
are from broken homes and they’re living in erm social erm- erm
they’re- they’re under the care of the erm- Trafford. EOS Yeah. EOS
And erm I’ve heard reports that they just run wild and you’re not
allowed to touch them. You’re not- if- they know that if you touch
them they can report you. EOS Mm. EOS And I mean I used to get lots of
smacks off my mother and it never did me any harm at all. And erm I
can always remember when I was- my mother had just given me a good
hiding and she’d gone into the kitchen and I walked behind her and
pulled my tongue out. EOS And she turned round and I got another one.
EOS oh no. EOS And I said ‘what was that for?’ ‘because’ she said
‘you’ve just pulled your tongue out haven’t you?’. And years after I
said ‘how did you know?’. She said ‘I just knew you were going to do
that’. EOS But we end- we were always the best of friends. EOS Mm EOS
Really good pals. EOS Erm I can stop that- this now if-