yep, one, two, three, four, five EOS So Bruce **anon** where are-
where are your parents from? mm, it is! Mm that’s interesting isn’t
it? yeah and then what about- how did he meet your mum then? To learn
English? To learn- sorry to learn **anon**. To Liverpool, is that
right? Am I right that they were-? But didn’t they start off in
Liverpool? you’re Granddad, right, yeah. Well mine are very boring
compared to that. They’re actually erm, both from **anon**, which is
now classed as Salford. And erm interestingly, erm, certainly my
mother erm, grew up close to your brothers and sisters. Just down the
road actually. From- in a place called **anon**. Well **anon** and
then **anon**. Well actually my father actually was probably more from
**anon**. Wasn’t he, really? So me mum and dad actually lived fairly
close to each other. But went to different schools, there’s seven
years between them, so erm- they didn’t really meet up until er- I
think me mum was in her early twenties then. Although they only-
didn’t really live that far down the road from each other. Erm but
getting back to my mum, erm. What it was with my husband’s family, er
they owned erm, **anon**, in- Well a laundry, sorry EOS Get the words
right. In **anon** and- Yeah it was the laundrettes that put the- yeah
so the laundry- so all- everything was hand washed in this- and erm-
and that’s- and they were very erm- had a good reputation. And so
obviously my mum knew about the laundry, don’t know whether she used
it or not. yeah, they were quite- quite a well-known family, **anon**.
Because I think- are we the only **anon** family there? At the time?
But sort of in that vicinity, they were probably the only ones. So-
and with you having that laundry, erm-. And yeah, getting back to my
mum, she went to school with- was she the year below **anon**? Or
above **anon**? I think she was a year above EOS She was in the year
above **anon** and erm-. Yeah. So me mum’s sister was at school with-
she went to **anon**- no she didn’t did she? They went to the pri- the
same- yeah, she went- yeah but me nan sent her to **anon**, so she
went there EOS So there’s quite a lot of er family links. And when I
met Bruce **anon**, my husband, erm when I told my mum I was going out
with this lad and said, ‘he’s part **anon**’ and he- he knows you from
**anon**, my mum said, ‘oh I wonder if it’s the **anon**- one of the
**anon**? Oh crikey! Well I hope so cos they’re such a lovely family.’
EOS And I said, ‘oh right okay, well, I’ll ask him what his surname
is,’ cos I think I’d only been on one date with him, so I didn’t know
what his surname was. And as it turns out it was **anon**. And so then
erm- he was introduced. Everything was fine, and then when Bruce’s
**anon** mum found out my- the origins of my family, and I was one of
**anon** erm granddaughters. ooh, lovely family, so everybody was
happy. Right, so erm have you lived any- . go on then! Why- why’s that
a good one? When I was younger? No I didn’t! I only moved from
**anon** EOS No, my Mum- Oh are you talking about- it’s my childhood
is it, or? When I was younger- no but I went to live in **anon** when
I was eighteen, but- that was . No, mum and dad, after they got
married, my mum and dad went to live in erm- on **anon**. They lived
in a house on **anon**. But then once- then they moved to **anon**, on
**anon** and that’s when they had the chil- the thr- the- the three of
us there. Yeah cos **anon** was a baby when we moved to **anon**. Cos
it was a three bed semi and it wasn’t big enough, so that’s when they
were-**anon**, where me mum and dad live now. Used to be a big old
like manor house. Called **anon**, and that was demolished. And
**anon** bought it all and- and built all those houses. Erm but left
all the **anon** trees round it, that’s why it got its name. And so we
moved there and I think-. I was six when I moved there. **anon** was
one, yeah. So I- oh I remember it, gosh. Yeah, what do you mean? Oh I
can remember it, yeah, oh, god yeah I can remember it. Mm, it was only
down the road. I did, yes. Don’t think that’s on the list. Yeah we
used to go caravanning, yeah, that- but that was when we lived at
**anon**. So er used to leave the caravan on the drive. And my mum
hated it. yeah she used to dread it so we got rid of the caravan in
the end. Well we sold it to me friend’s mum and dad. So erm- well you
didn’t really move round very much, you stayed in one house. And your
house was interesting. Right. But the house you lived in and were- was
brought up in. Was a big terrace on erm, the main road in- in
**anon**. And you had a number of generations of families living in
the same house. Do you want to talk us through that? So that’s how
many, five to start with Five children, younger EOS oh, seven- oh
yeah, yeah. Mum and dad that’s seven people. Oh he was. And he was
called **anon**. yeah, **anon**. And he ruled, and I know this because
of my mum. Because my mum erm also, as well as going to school with
**anon** they were quite big church goers, and Bruce’s **anon**
family, the **anon** were church goers and they used to meet up at
church and **anon** and me mum used to sing in the same choir, didn’t
they? And Auntie **anon** er, my mum’s sister. And er- and so she knew
of the family – obviously, they knew the family well. But they knew
about this granddad who-who was like sort of very traditional values.
And ruled the house quite strictly, didn’t he? And they were all very-
well they weren’t- well you had a great deal of respect for him, you
weren’t particularly- were you frightened of EOS Oh yeah he was
frightened of him then, so . And also, wasn’t your dad- he worked sh-
nights. So you didn’t see your dad that much. You probably saw more of
your granddad and your EOS Yeah, so really- yeah, so that’s probably
why granddad- cos he’d be retired then wouldn’t he, granddad? And- and
your grandma-. Oh did you not, oh she passed away before- oh right,
okay. Oh right. Yeah you did, yeah. she lived around- yeah, cos now
that was an interesting thing, because your mum’s mum erm- your mum
went over to bring her back EOS Am I right? Oh I’ve got it all wrong.
what are we looking at- Crikey! Wonder how she got here then? mm, aye,
she lived round the corner, didn’t she, In the big family EOS Hmm,
shall we get onto this- how long have we been at it? oh, erm what fun
things are t- are there to do in your community? Well, we got the
Trafford centre. That’s the- the biggest thing, because er- since the
Trafford centre’s come along, there’s lots of- it’s my-. I think it’s
great fun cos I like going shopping! So it’s like- if you like your
shopping, it’s a woman’s kind of er- what would you say? Well it’s my
hobby, going there. And er, what other things? Well we don’t often
walk into our local shopping area, but we did the previous Saturday
night, didn’t we? And we thoroughly enjoyed it, but noticed how mu-
noticed all the improvements in the local town centre, but realised
how much more needed to be done. It was kind of half finished, so erm,
but we’ve got sports centres, and I did used to belong to the local
gym and I’m not any more EOS And really over the years, we have used
all local facilities. Haven’t EOS Used all the sports centres and- No.
No, but we use the park, we used the park a lot when the boys were
younger. Oh it’s all there. It’s ideal where we live, because it’s
erm- it’s in a good area, isn’t it? For erm accessing services really.
Walk to most things can’t we? Yeah walk into Urmston, get the train
into Manchester. Cos we’re not on- quite near the- near enough for the
tram link yet. Yeah. And we got some nice local restaurants, haven’t
we? yeah well, yeah, I didn’t finish my story about the other EOS When
we walked into Urmston, thinking we could just get into a restaurant,
thinking, ‘well nobody really goes out in Urmston,’ and it was very
deserted, all the streets, but all the pubs and the restaurants were
jam-packed full EOS And we were pleasantly surprised weren’t we? Cos
if we go out we don’t tend to go local, do we? Generally. Not
generally, we’ve always gone out somewhere into town, or to people’s
houses or whatever, or stay in and entertain with- So, there EOS What
about school? Well I’ve got really erm, happy memories actually, of
school. But erm, certainly from when I went to **anon**, and yet I was
quite shocked when I went to a reunion, quite a number of years ago,
ooh crikey, it would be probably about seven- no maybe longer, maybe
ten years ago, I went to a reunion. And there was about sixty-odd of
us all at the Urmston cricket club, all who’d gone- some of us had
stayed on into sixth form, quite a lot had left in the fifth year, cos
in those days, er late seventies early eighties, not everybody was
encouraged to stay on. So quite a lot left in the fifth year. Which is
year eleven. And erm- and I was quite shocked at all those who had
left, they’d left cos they were so unhappy. Yeah. They hated the
teachers, thought they were weirdos. And erm, they couldn’t understand
why we’d all stayed on. And erm- and I was shocked that when they were
telling me about being unhappy, cos we were dead happy there. And- and
I was quite shocked at how many were bullied. I was sh- I was
absolutely shocked at that. Cos I was never once bullied. And I’m not
a bully myself, I wasn’t doing the bullying EOS Teachers and other
pupils. Mm, cos it was an all girl’s school when I went there. Erm
but- not that that’s any excuse but er- I was- we came away quite
upset actually, for some of them, I couldn’t believe it. Prior to
that, I went to **anon**, and **anon**, and my memories of that
school-. Are that- of that long passageway from the infants to the
juniors and EOS And it’s bizarre, because erm- couple of years ago
when me younger sister had **anon** er- we were trying to get him to
sleep at night and I said, ‘oh I’ll t-’ we were at my mum’s, who
lived- me mum lives quite close to the school, and I said, ‘oh I’ll
take **anon** out in the pram,’ so I thought ‘oh I’ll- I’m gonna go
down **anon** and have a look at me old school.’ EOS And it was- it
was a real sort of funny feeling going down there, and I was looking
at how it had all changed, I couldn’t believe how different it looked.
The- the actual original building’s still there but they’ve added on
and-. Changed the playground a bit and- and all me memories came
flooding back. And the first thing I remembered as I’m- as I’m
approaching at the bottom of **anon**, and going left onto the
passageway, erm I just remember I felt really big, this- I felt really
tall, this big tall EOS Because when I was last down there, I was this
little tiny person, and the passageway looked so big and- and long.
And yet it was just a tiny little pass-way- passageway really. It
wasn’t anywhere near as- as big and long as it was when you’re little.
But what I instantly thought about when I looked at the main entrance
of the junior school was- was always the smell of sour milk EOS and
bottles that had been kicked over by the boys football. And what it
was, we used to have milk delivered in glass bottles, and EOS Yeah
small bottles of milk. And the lads were terrible for the football and
they’d kick it around and it’d eventually get kicked at the- the milk
bottles and they’d be smashed all over the front. Milk everywhere. And
it was warm as well, when it was delivered into EOS it was warm, and
we drank it. See I- I think I quite liked it, cos it’s creamy. Oh no I
think I er- I think I drank it. Yeah didn’t mind it. But it was that
smell, I could smell it the minute I got to- to th- to the erm- the
passageway where the school is, I could- I could even smell the milk
EOS yeah, yeah and then I walked round to the infants and that just
seemed so tiny, that entrance. I just remember the school- I looked at
the- the erm the door to the entrance, the infant entrance- well it’s
all in- sorry the younger end and erm, I just remember when you walked
through those doors, the cloakroom was on the right and then there’s
this long corridor with the classrooms off it. And the hall on the
left. And erm I just kept thinking about all the teachers and erm-
there was a teacher there apparently, I think she must’ve been the
reception teacher, called **anon** who apparently, me mum said used to
absolutely adore me. I had this big round chubby face that was always
red EOS and I used to come back with lipstick all over my face where
she’d been kissing me, apparently. Can you believe that? No they
wouldn’t, they wouldn’t. And erm, I couldn’t say **anon** and I used
to call her Mi- **anon**. . So erm, that was my r- early recollections
of erm the infants and juniors. What about yours? Oh that’s when I was
born. gonna say it’s bloody sinking! . Yeah, betit is. It’s where the
cemetery is, have you ever been to the cemetery at the end of the-?
**anon**, at the end of the motorway there, the erm- yeah, if you’re-
you’re gonna be cremated basically you go-. Well actually no, burials
as well aren’t there? Bit of a big leap from that to A-level, mm EOS
he hadn’t done GCSE standard. So yeah then it’d be too much, wouldn’t
it? Cos there is now isn’t there even? Cos really they help you so
much more I think with your GCSEs EOS and then A-levels you’re not as-
you don’t there’s a big step up EOS you’re still- Yeah and you’re
still gonna do well as well aren’t you? You can do well can’t you?
That wasn’t encouraged then. At secondary school. Oh God yeah, yeah
mm. So when you saw your eleven plus paper, that’d be the first time
you’d ever seen one. I mean, it doesn’t matter how clever you are, you
can’t do it can you, unless you practice it. Let me stick this light-
oh sorry but I can’t move! Sorry, it’s alright I was just gonna put
the light on. her younger sister was in-. **anon** was she in the year
above me, I think at **anon**. She went to EOS I think she went to do
mechanical engineering. Oh thanks, yeah. They’re really clever girls
anyway I think, aren’t they? Oh did they live in Eccles then, and come
on the coach down to the EOS Oh yes, right. So- so don’t they have a
special bus for them- coach for them from Salford, don’t they? Cos I
remember that starting. Yeah. Ah yeah right, okay. Do you think she
did practice papers then? Oh, they would have known about- how
annoying. And they never told anybody else. Yeah, cos it seems a bit
of a coincidence that she was the only one EOS Why would they do that,
that’s silly? so you missed a whole year? Oh that’s ludicrous! Mm, it
is terrible that. mm, what a shame. Oh right was in the year above? Oh
right. You see you’ve always had friends that have been older than
you, haven’t you? I’ve noticed that, you know, even now I’m thinking
of **anon** and erm- actually **anon** the same age, isn’t he? Erm
those other blokes, I mean a lot of them have moved away now, but when
I first met you, a lot of your friends were older than you and I- ‘oh
I used to go to school with him but he was in the year above, or the
year above that.’ EOS So that- I wonder if that’s why? But your
friends were in the year above, yeah, it’s a shame isn’t it EOS Oh
it’s **anon** yes, yeah. He’s quite a bit isn’t he, yeah. You did,
yeah. Oh gosh, yeah, mm EOS Mm, oh they were clever lads weren’t they?
I know, and also we- we’ve lost a lot of friends through divorce, cos
of- you know people like **anon** split up hasn’t he? Quite a lot of
them have er- well they’ve moved abroad, I mean **anon** and **anon**
who we’re really friendly with, and they went to live in Canada, I
remember feeling dead upset when they went away and it’s really hard
to keep in touch with people. When they move away as well, and then
obviously if they split up it sort of becomes awkward then EOS because
you don’t know EOS which one to choose. Yeah probably would’ve stayed
in touch with them better really. Yeah. You remember to go on it and-
Yeah that’s right. Yeah, I mean it’d be nice to go to Canada and see
**anon** and **anon** wouldn’t it? Although I don’t really fancy
Canada. I mean, I know we did Niagara falls last year, that was only
touching into it a bit, but, I don’t know it doesn’t really- there’s
nothing about Canada that really appeals to me to go to, like- I like
America where you’ve got- seem to have so much there to offer you. So-
it’s got everything hasn’t it? Well that’s it, it’s probably my
ignorance really. I know it’s supposed to be really clean. Cos I know
when **anon** and **anon** have been over- **anon** been over more so
than **anon** EOS but he always says when he- cos he’ll always- cos
his parents live on EOS so if he’s home he’ll always come and see us
EOS and erm- cos you remember he knocked at the door and **anon**
didn’t know who he was? So **anon** had this funny conversation with
him and he said, ‘oh come and wait for them, oh, wait in for them,’
cos we were out. It’s **anon** uncle. And erm **anon**- **anon**-
**anon** didn’t sort of- ‘well who are you, I don’t really want to let
you in my house,’ EOS he’s, ‘oh just wait for them,’ yeah. So- yeah
so- so but when erm, **anon** was last round here a few years back,
she- she said, ‘I can’t believe how dirty Manchester is.’ EOS They’d
been out in the city centre and she just said, ‘there’s just rubbish
everywhere, it’s just filthy.’ EOS An- and actually funnily enough,
last night when I went to take- yesterday when I went to take that dvd
back to blockbuster, it’s absolutely filthy round that area where
blockbuster is, the back of macdonalds, where people have just thrown
all the fast food sh- They’re just- there’s bins there and the people
just throw it, now you- I must admit even in A- where we’ve been in
America, you wouldn’t EOS It’s for being back- back- back in New York,
but- And they just chuck it everywhere. I know and they just- they
just chuck things out and but sort of o- like **anon** said in Canada,
there’s just people constantly clearing rubbish up all the time. and
there’ll be parts of Canada and America that are dirty but she did say
that when she- when they moved out there they couldn’t get over what-
how clean EOS everything looked. And spick and span, and- And- and-
and when she comes back she notices how dirty Manchester seems to be.
It’s more spread out as well. I think erm-. We’re more highly- densely
populated, mm. Yeah. So you obviously had a lot of friends didn’t you,
when you were EOS Yeah we had a lot because I’m one of four girls and
we used to share EOS cos we were all fairly close, you do that with
sisters. So- and it- it’s interesting cos even erm- when I went to me
elder sister’s fiftieth on Friday, I was telling them at work today,
they were saying, ‘how did you get on?’ and I was saying, ‘oh it was
really fun,’ you know, and some of them, the fifty- fifty somethings
that were there, you see I’ve known them for donkey’s years really,
like EOS Cos **anon** used to share a flat with **anon** and- and
erm-. I just remember erm- you know, I used to go out with her as
well, we- so we, you know, we’d share friends. And erm, and like
**anon** my best friend now, who’s really good friends with **anon**
isn’t she? She- you know we’ve always been like that. Cos we- we-
although my sisters are like me- me sisters are like my friends as
well. And erm so we sort of erm- we know about each other’s friends as
well. And erm, and ask about them. And er, yeah. ‘I’m telling you, you
ha- you have even if you haven’t.’ EOS Was that on a bare bottom as
well? Oh right, that’s alright then! Well we’re going back a number of
years, you know EOS Not granddad **anon**? his Dad was EOS But you’ve
never smoked, have you? No, thank goodness, yeah. Actually that- it’s
made me think of something, about **anon**. We used to get the ruler,
the girls got the ruler and the lads got the cane EOS from **anon**.
Who was the headt- well he was deputy head when I was there and then
when I left I believe he became the head for- for a long, long time.
And erm, my elder sister **anon** particularly didn’t get on with him,
he used to pick a lot on **anon** for some reason. And I remember at
one parent’s evening erm-. Me- me dad- well they’d gone to parent’s
evening, they’d been to som- some problem between this teacher- I
think actually- sorry at the time he was- I don’t think he was even
deputy head, this **anon** he might’ve just been- just a general
teacher. And there’d been some incident with me sister, I can’t even
remember what it was but I just- I just remember erm me mum telling me
that at parent’s evening me dad just threw a wobbler and got him up
against this- teacher up against the wall, and was like just about to
thump him one. And, ‘leave my daughter alone, you know I’m sick of you
picking EOS Cos I think he really did, he just- you know when some
teachers just don’t like certain people he just didn’t like our
**anon**. And erm and he- in fact he- he- I think he’s died recently
he’s been- in fact he has, because-. Yeah **anon** told me. Who’s a
builder, you know **anon** and erm, **anon** EOS **anon** was in our
**anon** class at- at junior school and- and EOS again rec- cos when
he was doing the building work on our house, we were having
conversations and I found out erm it was **anon**- he was in **anon**
class and I said, ‘ooh did you ever come across **anon**?’ and he
went, ‘**anon**! Oh God he was awful I hated him.’ Apparently he used
to have- this is awful what they used to do, teachers in them days.
Erm- he didn’t just cane **anon** cos I think **anon** was quite
naughty. Erm he used to make **anon** sit at his desk- at the
teacher’s desk and **anon** would have to do all his work there. And
if he dare lift his head up, he apparently had a erm- erm what do you
call it? Ping Pong bat with a face drawn on it- this is the teacher,
and he’d crack him over the head with it every time he lifted his head
up. That was **anon**. And then I remember erm bumping into **anon**
and he told me, ‘you’re never gonna believe it, that B-duh-duh-duh-
duh-duh’ EOS ‘has died now.’ EOS And it was in the paper, but he lived
‘til he was- I think in his EOS And he lived I think off **anon** in
Flixton and we used to see him going up and down the road and our
**anon** erm, went to **anon**. And she set off obviously me mum and
dad’s in **anon** and she had to- she’d have to pass him every day and
she used to think, ‘oh I hate you!’ you know, after she’d left, and-
Cos he used to pr- practically bully her really. And erm absolutely
hated him. I had no trouble with him he was alright with me and I
think the other two he was alright with, **anon** and **anon** don’t
think they had any trouble. Yeah, no, well I think after this incident
with me dad about to batt- He- he was- he- he wouldn’t have any- we
were fine after that. Mm, I was gonna talk about something else then
but er- I forgot- ooh so I’m just coming onto like corporal punishment
really because what we- what we did- we- you know you have a spelling
test oh well we still had spelling tests in them days. And then say it
was out of ten you know, depending on how many you got wrong, erm
you’d have to line up at **anon** desk. And you would get thrashed
basically, so if you got five out of ten, you got five lashes of the
cane, and five- that was the lads, and the girls would get the ruler
on the back of their hands five times, or dependent on how many
spellings you got EOS And that was a regular thing, wasn’t it? That’s
why I’ve got- really have good spelling actually, cos it was the
thought of getting the ruler. But I can only remember erm, a black
girl who was in my class called **anon** I’ll never forget her. And
erm her brother was in I think the year below or couple of years
below. And they- both her and her brother were adopted, and she had
white parents. And again, they lived actually on **anon**. And she was
absolutely terrified of **anon** and I always remember one day she
just- you know I think she just freaked out if she ever got the- the
ruler. And she cheated in this spelling test and she- she’d actually
written the spellings on her desk. Cos we had wooden desks in those
days EOS and you used a fountain pen. And er anyway she’d- she’d
obviously done surprisingly very well in EOS and he was obviously
suspicious, so we all went out to play and then obviously he was
snooping round and he saw these spellings written on her desk. Yeah.
Oh I’ll never forget it, it was awful, and he made her scrub it with
bleach and everything and-. Oh it was just awful. Yeah, you lived in
fear really you know. Mostly you did. But then I went to the grammar
school and I was quite- you know, I had quite a happ- happy time there
really. I mean I don’t think I particularly had an unhappy time- I
think I had a very happy time in the infants and I think going into
juniors was fine until we had this particular teacher. I think
generally it was him. Yeah, yeah. I think I-. I know I don’t know how
he ever got the deputy- well he was deputy head when I was there and
then he got the headship after I left. They were probably frightened
to not give it him. To be honest. Mm, still see him now, he was one of
those blokes, sort of balding with a bit of hair either side, like a
bit of a mad EOS Always had a tweed jacket on. Yeah with patches here.
Portly, absolutely short and portly. And he just looked like that from
the minute he started there from- from- and I presume from when he
left. He just never looked any different. One with nails sticking out
just so it had a bit of . Oh really, **anon**? Oh a junior, right. Was
that a private school? yeah, mm, I’m just looking here about having to
help out around the house, erm this is funny. In fact I was telling
them, they must think I’m a bit of a nutter at school- at work sorry,
cos I- I dunno how we got onto this conversation, this was last week
and we were talking about sisters and things and getting on with
families and stuff and I said ‘I can remember when erm, when the four
of us- me and my three sisters, were all living at home, in- on
**anon**. And erm I think the younger two are a bit too young at the
time t- to have to help with chores so it was me and **anon** and we
used to have to erm, wash- we didn’t have dishwashers so we used to
have to wash and dry and put away. Now the person who washed up,
washed up and that was it you could get out of the kitchen quick but
the poor person who had to dry also had to put away. And guess who
always ended up drying and putting away cos she was a bit younger than
the older bossy sister. yeah, it was me and I can just remember just
getting so fed up she’d rush into the kitchen start washing up and I’d
get in, I thought, ‘here I am again, I’m having to dry.’ And then
she’d you know, hurry up do it much- obviously quicker cos it takes
longer to- to dry and then put away. She’d rush out and carry on doing
what she was doing, watching telly or whatever. And I just remember
one day she was washing up and I’m drying the knives and I got a knife
to her EOS But you know in a sort of friendly kind of way. . And I was
just getting it and say- getting- cos we used to have steak knives as
well so actually it was quite sharp actually, it was a very sharp
steak knife. With er- a brown wooden handle, erm cos the reason why I
remember that is when you were washing up you weren’t allowed to put
the handles in the water. Because they were wooden. Yeah and you used
to have to hold them like that and- and clean the- the stainless steel
edging. So, I just remember getting it and saying, ‘I’m fed up of
having to dry and put away I’m fed up, you’ve got to let me wash them
all’ EOS ‘wash the pots for a change! Or I’m gonna tell mum and dad,’
like EOS I think it did work, I seem to think having the knife there
perhaps EOS did help a bit. Yeah you just keep loading the do-
dishwasher up Bruce **anon** you’re