one, two, three EOS erm, I already know the answer to this question,
but how many brothers and sisters have you got EOS four now, bloody
hell, that’s been a long time EOS since erm, when we was in Scouts
wasn’t it? God, I can’t even remember, was it longer than that? was
back in two thousand four? at the latest EOS yeah, yeah, well
hundredth Salford wasn’t it EOS was you? so what’ve you got, you’ve
got **anon** EOS how old’s- how old’s **anon** now? I remember him
when he was about, like EOS I remember him when he was God, how old
was he, about eleven or something like that EOS is he? Is he? what,
off power rangers EOS erm actually, I think I seen your Granddad
actually when I was doing erm, when I was on the cavity wall
insulation EOS yeah, I like I knocked on his hou- I knocked on- I
knocked his house and erm I sa- I saw him go in the house so I went,
‘oh, there’s Lewis’ **anon** Grandad’ EOS went to knock on the house
EOS no answer he just- yeah, just- just ignoring me EOS I’ve got one
brother, one sister EOS me sister’s erm, sister’s seventeen EOS
**anon** erm, **anon**- he’s nearly twenty one now EOS yeah, he’s
going aw- he’s going on holiday for his birthday and erm EOS he’s
going to erm, is it Cos EOS yeah, but he failed to invite me so EOS
that was a bit cheeky wasn’t it? yeah, just going with all his mates
cos he’s- he’s good mates with erm, you know everyone that we work
with at **anon** EOS erm, so he’s going with a lot of them, all of his
mates from- from erm from when he was a, you know, doing his
bricklaying EOS and stuff like that, so EOS no, he’s just doing- he’s
working at **anon** with us, isn’t he EOS erm, doing a bit of- he
works more in the kitchen and does a bit of driving work as well, you
know like a little bit of a EOS like assistant chef yeah EOS so he’s
not doing bad, but he said he wants to get back into the erm, to the
building but erm, the last- the last guy that he worked for was an
absolute arsehole EOS and erm, so he’s just put him off, you know,
like the guy lived in, up Bolton way EOS and he used to have to be at
this guys house for about erm, used to have to be there for half six
in the morning EOS and this was before- this was before he could drive
EOS so he had to like, get the bus at like half five in the morning,
and you know, if he was late, the guy wouldn’t wait for him so EOS I
think he just kind of thought ‘sack that, I’m not- I don’t wanna be
working in the bricklaying anymore’ sorta thing, but, but I’ve been
trying to tell him, you know, he needs to get back into it cos he
can’t EOS stay at **anon** ‘til forever and ever more, the longer
you’re out of EOS the harder it’ll be to get back into it EOS what
college was he at? what was he doing at- at **anon**? nah, yeah, it
was basically- all it was, was erm, online modules sorta- sorta thing
EOS so we just used to sit there in front of a computer for an hour
just reading through these, you know, all these modules EOS and then,
like, yeah, and then at the end of each module you have to have a test
and there was no sort of like teaching involved in it, there was like,
it was just, you know, you just sit there and read it, I think the
only thing we did erm, you know, practical stuff, cos it was all to do
with networking and computers and stuff like that, we learnt how to,
you know like y- when you get your Ethernet cables? we learnt how to
make them EOS and we learnt to strip a computer down, and then put it
back together, they were the only things we did for the whole two
years EOS so, there’s no wonder I did- I didn’t erm, I didn’t pass it,
cos when, you like, you’d complete all your modules and then at the
end of it you have to take a EOS you know, like a test covering all
the modules EOS so, and then if you fail that test you have to pay for
it to do it EOS so I failed it and I thought, ‘no’ EOS ‘I’m not- I’m
not even going back’ but you have- it’s like something like sixty
pound a go EOS and you know, back when I was working on four pound an
hour in- in EOS sixty pound was quite a bit of money EOS erm,
Electronics in the end, I come out with erm, a D EOS so, better than
nothing isn’t it EOS erm, Music Technology, I only- I scrapped that
after the first year EOS well no, basically I dropped it because it
was, just- I just didn’t like the tutors at all, like you know at-
when I was in school I was into all me drums and stuff EOS and I like
loved music, but then as soon as I got to college just, I don’t know
what- I don’t know what, but it’s just changed my, like erm, opinion
of erm, you know, trying to be a a musician sort of thing EOS I don’t
regret it really though I was just too lazy to EOS favourite high
school teacher? I don’t- I don’t- I don’t think I had- I don’t think
many people- probably **anon** to be honest you know with Music EOS I
don’t remember her EOS yeah, I know but cos- cos he was a drummer as
well, you know, he like really encouraged me and and erm, you know, he
used to help me out wherever he could EOS yeah I still see him about
cos he works for Salford Council now EOS you know for Ma- for Mapas,
Music and Performing Arts of Salford or something like that, erm, so
I- I see him about, you know when I’m dropping stuff off at different
places EOS so I still speak to him now and again he was erm, decent do
you- what was the worst thing you ever got into trouble for EOS it was
one of them subjects that you just don’t pay attention to EOS ahh, the
worst- I got in trouble for a couple of things, when we was in erm,
year seven erm, I thought I’d be a bit with erm, thought I’d be a
little bit of erm, mischievous erm and then me and **anon**, me and
**anon** and **anon** used to all mess about in erm, in Science class,
this was year ten, year ten or eleven EOS we always used to mess about
in Science and erm, basically you know along the Science benches EOS
used to get like the wooden bits along the front, and **anon** snapped
EOS so of course, you heard this like big cracking sound EOS teacher
looks across to us all and we’re all there, like rolling our EOS and
the next- so he turns back, carries on with what- what he’s doing and
the next thing you know, I’ve got this piece of wood in me hand and
**anon** just head-butts it EOS like, snaps it in half, and then the
teacher looks round again, and I’m sat there with like two pi- two
pieces of wood in my hand EOS and erm, we both got te- detention for
that and erm, you EOS we- yeah, we- we were in erm, doing detention
and he- and he comes in and he goes, ‘surprised to see you here lads,
wh- what you in here for?’ and, you know what **anon** like, he just
like burst out laughing, and I’m just sat there dead straight faced
and he just went, ‘smashed a piece of wood over his head’ EOS like
that it’s what it is- but that was one of worst things I ever got in
de- in trouble for I reckon so are your Mum and Dad from Salford? From
Manchester area? are they in **anon** still, in **anon** EOS right,
still Manchester area EOS a chip batch? ah, people from other places,
they call it weird things don’t they EOS it’s like, you know like I’ve
got family that live in, in erm, in EOS they- they erm, they’re
baffled by, literally, you know like Peter Kay says it on- on his
thingy, but they are baffled by like chips and EOS they just don’t
have it like, my- my Aunty who’s from up here, she has it all the time
but like, the kids they don’t eat it, I love chips and gravy EOS and
every time you go down and you’re like, you know, if you go to the
chippy, ‘can I have chips and gravy’ they’ll just give you like, a
portion of chips and a portion of gravy, they won’t give it you
together, if- if you want to eat it now EOS the salt and pepper chips
they’re nice EOS but the one on, you know on the **anon**, what’s it
called now, it’s a Chinese chippy on erm, you know on the **anon**?
yeah, the one right at the end EOS yeah, I can’t remember what it’s
called now, not been there for a while but that’s nice as well what
was your erm, what was your first job after leaving school? oh you
did, didn’t you? working with **anon** and that EOS you worked in
Trafford Centre didn’t you? God, I forgot about that EOS that in the
Trafford Centre, yeah? bloody hell, I remember my- my first job
working in- in Trafford, I went to you know when the job- when the job
centre used to behin- be behind the big screen EOS do you remember
when it used to be there? I went in there, you know, like looking for
jobs and- and the guy that- that was erm running it, sort of thing he
said, ‘yeah, they’ve got this one in BHS here’ erm, you know, ‘fill
out this application form’, so I filled it out EOS and he said that
there’s supposed to be a questionnaire to go with it EOS you know
that, you know, to see what your opinions are on stuff, he said,
‘we’ve not got an- any in at the moment but erm, when it comes in I’ll
fill it out for you and hand it in’ EOS and then, so I- I- I ended up
erm getting- going- going for the interview erm, getting the job EOS I
don’t- I don’t remem- I don’t remember if I’ve told you this but you
know when you go for your induction sort of thing EOS erm, there was-
there was about eight or ten of us sat round this big table, and it
was near- near the Christmas erm, period when I EOS so they had some
of the things that they used to sell on Christmas EOS and erm, no word
of a lie, they had a vibrator on the table EOS so we were all sat
there going ‘what kind of, erm, company have we come to work for
here?’ EOS yeah, the- I don’t- I can’t- I honestly can’t remember EOS
but- and when like, the Christmas shop came in they used to sell like,
you know, like adult stuff like that, like flavoured EOS condoms and
everything like that, which was kind of weird, when EOS sixteen and
you’re like EOS I don’t think I applied to work in Ann Summers EOS
apart from Music? God I loved History when I was at school EOS yeah,
he was- he was a good History tea- and we had erm, what was the other
one called as well? The one that really pale with black hair, what was
she called, **anon**, was that the one? And she got married EOS yeah,
yeah, she wasn’t bad either but yeah I used to love erm, History and
History and Music was about it really, everything else I just used to
loathe EOS what about you? yeah, Science was okay but EOS I didn’t
like Maths, we had erm, is it **anon** EOS but yeah, **anon** and erm,
cos me and **anon** used to sit next to each other EOS so and it was,
you know, right near the back of the class so we were always up to no
good EOS and yeah, just, so she just used to- she never used to like
us I don’t think so that didn’t make it any better but yeah, Science,
I reckon cos it was a pretty run down school by the- by the time we
was there EOS so they never used to have any Science equipment L; they
had Bunsen burners, that was it, Bunsen bur- Bunsen burners EOS and
the clay mats that were all like superglued back together EOS cause
people had been smashing them EOS so yeah what else, what else, what
else, what else, can you remember any good stories that your
grandparents or your parents used to tell you? I think a lot of Gran’s
are like that aren’t they EOS cause my- my Gran, cos she lives down in
Southend with my Aunty and erm, so she- all the time she’s on the
phone to me Mum and me Mum’s sat there like that you know, trying to
get off the phone cos she’s just going on, and on, and on EOS I know
you c- you can’t tell them- you can’t tell them to you know, you don’t
know what to EOS yeah, ‘I’ve got to go now’, ‘just a minute, just a
minute’ EOS ‘just let me tell you this’ EOS yeah she phoned up the
other night, you know when all these riots were on, on the precinct
EOS she phoned up to see if me Dad was working but erm, he wasn’t
thankfully, he answered the phone going, ‘hold on a minute, hold on a
minute, erm, I’m just beating these muggers off from the door’ EOS
she’s dead- she’s dead- yeah, fireman, yeah I always remember random
stories he used to tell me when- when I was a kid but the one that
sticks out most is just like when, he’s got a picture of it actually,
w- him and one of his, erm, the lads that he first started working
with, erm like, this building’s on fire and there’s just got a picture
of them ru- both running away from this bi- w- brick wall that’s
collapsing EOS that was pretty- pretty cool erm, picture and story to
go with it EOS y- yeah, erm, I’ve not seen her for a while actually,
erm, you know, cos with all the council cuts EOS well, everything’s
been scaled back, I mean, when I first started doing the driving erm,
you know, we used to be really busy everyday, you know, like with like
ten or twelve jobs to do everyday, but now, we’re down to about two or
three EOS you know, on a good day you’ll be like, you’ll have like one
big job for like eighty people and that’s considered a busy day now
EOS whereas like, back when we first started you know, used to do like
six jobs for twenty people, so so it has- it has erm, you know, been
scaled back a lot with all the cuts so it’s kind of erm, no, I don’t
see- I don’t see- I’ve not seen her for a while I don’t think- she’s
not been to- up to **anon** for a while I don’t- right what d- what-
yeah, what like, what years does she teach sort of thing EOS yeah, my
Mum teaches erm, like reception she just erm, their school’s just been
closed down and th- you know, they’ve got a EOS erm, what’s it called,
‘**anon**’ or something like that EOS no, not **anon** erm, it’s
called, erm, it’s down by the river believe it or not EOS erm, so
yeah, th- do you know the school where she worked EOS it’s like,
hundred and fifteen years old or something like that EOS and it is
like, falling apart EOS you know, you so it’s about time they got a
new one, I think they’re, you know, merging a couple of schools EOS
like they did- yeah, like they did with ours when EOS was it- was it
**anon** that closed wasn’t it, and they merged- merged some of ours
and some with- with **anon** bad times, when they- all the scrotes
come EOS ever get hurt? No, I- I’ve never broke a bone in my body EOS
yeah erm, the worst thing that’s ever happened, and it sounds really
naff, is erm, just pushing my, you know, like a push bike EOS along,
and erm, for some reason this- this lad that used to live round the
corner, erm, he come up and he was just- just messing about like, just
like kicked the back tyre, sort of thing, and you know the- the cogs
where your chain goes EOS like, dug right into my leg so, got a big-
big scar on my leg where that was from EOS I had to go hospital and
have stitches for that, that was about the worst thing that ever- ever
happened to me EOS no, I don’t think- I think I’ve had a couple of
burns and stuff when I was a kid but nothing nothing worth speaking
about really, just the EOS scar on my leg from an idiot down the
street EOS erm, whereabouts did you used to play when you- when you
were a EOS my brother’s done that Mum was like, ‘oh, gotta take you to
hospital for a tetanus’ and all this EOS get over it Mum, just wipe it
up with an alcohol free wipe EOS but we used to have erm, where I used
to live on erm, do you remember the **anon** Church on the- on the- on
the high- it was like a really old old church, like, pretty big church
EOS and we used to play on the grounds there but then they knocked it
all down and built houses over it erm, with like a- just a smaller
church to the side and we used to just like, used to have like, you
know like the massive fences along, erm EOS so- but we dug like a
little hole so we could s- like slide under the- under the fence EOS
and we built a little tree house in the- in the corner EOS and erm, we
used to get the vicar coming out, you know, like, shouting at us,
going, ‘get off’ and, you know, private land EOS and obviously,
playing in- never went down to Buille Hill Park really, but like, Oaks
Park EOS yeah, but erm, I remem- I remember learning to ride my bike
in- in Buille Hill park though EOS really? I remember when my Dad
who’s like, you know, like running along behind, holding the seat so I
wouldn’t wobble, and then EOS I just remember going, ‘w- why am I
wobbling so much g- get hold of the seat’, and tu- turned around an me
Dad was like EOS a- miles away, I’d been riding the bike and I didn’t-
you know, didn’t even know that’s the first time I remember EOS yeah
ahh, they talk about that word all the time don’t EOS it’s true though
like when- like on me bike when I’m going round corners, you know, or
j- or like you’re trying to do a u- turn, the faster y- you, obviously
not like twenty mile an hour but, the faster you’re going, then it-
the easier it is to manoeuvre it EOS did you ever do any extra extra
activities at erm, in school or college when we used to have to do
erm, what was it called now? circus skills with- what did I do? I
think I used to do something with music, you know erm, learning to
play another instrument, I started to learn how to play guitar but you
know, drums was the way forward for me, thought, ‘chords, what are
these?’ EOS didn’t have a clue EOS oh yeah, I remember **anon**- was
it **anon** EOS he u- he used to teach that didn’t he EOS I don’t
think I ever used to do anything in- in a High School EOS no, I used
to play a lit- little bit of rugby but I never stuck at it really EOS
you know, cos my Dad used to play, my Dad used to play for erm,
Salford Reds Juniors EOS and he erm, did like tours in France and
Germany and all that when they were- when he was like, when he was
like nineteen, twenty erm, he did like you know, like tours in France
and stuff, and I remember him always telling me about the coach got
erm, you know, got EOS and erm, him and one of his mates decided to
stay in France with him EOS you know, while he got better EOS so they
just had a hol- they just had like a EOS think it was like a three or
four week holiday just messing about, something like that EOS what, in
Salford? well, after erm, was it Tuesdays EOS erm, incidents, not a
lot really EOS it was just a small minority of it, spoiling it for
people wasn’t it? I live- I live fairly near to the Salford precinct
where it was- all taking place, you could see, there was a couple of
cars on f- that they’d burnt out, think it was like the Manchester
Radio car EOS erm, then they’d, you know like, tipped it over and
burnt it out, you could see the smoke for miles erm, and my
girlfriend, she’s EOS so we- so we had to go for a drive round didn’t
we EOS so we went for a li- for a little drive round and you know,
like all the roads to the precinct there’s just like, lines of li-
riot police EOS erm, and they all looked knackered EOS they’d been
stood there for ages EOS you know, without a break, felt sorry for
them, one of my Mum’s friends erm, he works erm, you know, training
and co-ordinating the riot police EOS so he was- he was like up for
like forty-eight hours straight or something daft like that EOS it was
erm- it was all madness wasn’t it though, but I think there’s erm,
like I say, just a lot of people spoiling it for the majority, a lot
of people in Salford are decent people EOS erm, just erm, what was it-
cos I was watching erm is it Question Time with young voters last
night and erm, it was saying that, you know, there’s a lot of erm EOS
you know, it’s not just people you know, being idiots, there is a lot
of underlying problems that they think is the cause EOS there are
broken families and all this erm, did you hear what H- Hazel Blears
said? In h- in erm, was it in the houses of parliament where she said
erm, you know, ‘why aren’t- why aren’t your kids in school’ and it’s
like, it’s the summer holidays EOS ahh, but erm, watching- watching
the news as well with- I’m sure the- the news people just go around
and find the most stupid people to talk EOS the stupidest people to
talk to and, you know, give interviews to and, you know, you can see
why half of them haven’t got jobs EOS the way- the way they talk and
act EOS they’re just- they’re just stupid aren’t they see that guy
that was in Manchester city centre with his erm, with his t-shirt
pulled up over his face and his- and his sunglasses on, and he was
like, ‘the police can’t touch us today can they it’s free reign’
thought, ‘oh’ I was just watching it and I was EOS what are they- what
do they think they’re gonna achieve, you know, if they wanted to vent
their anger I’m sure they would find better ways than erm, smashing up
their own communities did you hear erm, TJ Hughes on the precinct,
the- they’ve closed it down now EOS because erm, you know cos it got
that badly damaged in the riots EOS erm, they just decided that they
can’t afford to erm, you know, repair it all, so they’ve just closed
it down, so they’re just ruining prospects for people in their own
community really aren’t they? you know, that’s about, how many people
do you reckon are working there, fifteen, twenty people, that’ve just
lost their jobs EOS so they’re just adding to their own problems and-
they just don’t think about it do they EOS it’s erm, it’s all stupid I
d- I don’t see why they were rioting anyway, I think they were just
EOS copy- copy cat riots from, you know, cos I think in London it was
all to do with that guy getting shot wasn’t it EOS erm, but up here,
they j- they had no reason at all did they really, they were just
copying it, getting away with it cos th- you know, because they could
get away with it so but erm, watching a few erm, videos you know, that
have been posted on youtube of people getting arrested EOS and erm,
what do you reckon- what do you reckon about erm, you know, if people
do get convicted then they should loose their EOS at- see I- at first
I- I thought that, you know, yeah, cos they shouldn’t have been
involved in the riots and why should the tax payer have to, you know,
pay for the clean up EOS and pay for them who have caused the mess EOS
but then I was watching when I was watching the- that programme last
night and it was saying, you know, erm, is it not EOS gonna cos more
problems cos these people that are already on low incomes or no
incomes have got, you know, nowhere to go, so are they not just gonna
start causing more trouble than all this EOS so, there’s a bit of a
argument for both sides of it really isn’t EOS deport them, yeah L;
yeah, send them all somewhere else EOS just make them live on a small
island EOS or Australia, like back in the day EOS did you see that
about the- was it that e-petitions where they’re trying to get erm,
you know, the death sentence brought back sort of thing EOS aren’t
they all mad aren’t they? that’s very true very true erm I don’t think
it’ll deter anybody though cos, you can imagine, in America they still
have high crime rates, it doesn’t really deter anybody does it EOS
with- with criminals it’s erm, when they’re committing acts of, erm,
they don’t really think about the consequences do they, they don’t
think, ‘oh, I’m gonna get banged up for twenty years for smuggling ten
pound- ten million pounds worth of class A’ or whatever they just want
to do it because they’re greedy aren’t they, or- that’s another one of
the topics that was on that programme last night, he was saying that,
you know, how can you expect these, you know, these kids, to respect
the police when- they don’t even respect- they don’t even respect
their own Mums’ and EOS and you’re taking the powers away from the-
from the Mums’ and Dads’ to, you know, enforce that respect, because
you know, even smacking a child is frowned upon and EOS stuff isn’t
it, you were saying that- yeah, yeah, too erm, too P-C, politically
correct, isn’t it, you know it’s all- bollocks in my opinion EOS never
did me any harm EOS get- getting a smack round the back of the legs
EOS no, no, trust me, the back of the legs was worse you know,
especially coming from my Dad EOS he’s massive isn’t he? that was erm,
fun times when I was a kid, well I d- I don’t get people that, you
know, it’s never aff- it’s never affected me in- in any way, any-
anybody that I know that got you know, a clip round the ear once in a
while EOS you know, it’s not affected them in you know, like,
adversely sort of- sort of way has it, you know EOS yeah, there should
be- I think they need to look at it don’t they change the rules EOS so
have you- I don’t know what erm- what ways did you have to help
around- help around the house when you used to live at home with your
Mam? used to- used to be like a fight in our house every weekend, you
know, like me Mum dragging us out of bed at like ten o’clock on a
Saturday morning when you just wanna sleep EOS cos you’ve been up like
playing on your Xbox or whatever, ‘til like three in the morning EOS
she’s dragging us out of bed going, erm, trying to get us, you know,
to tidy up different things like, you can wash the pots from last
night and she used to make us like al- hoover all the- hoover all the-
all the stairs and landing and clean the bathroom and stuff like that
EOS she w- the funniest I look back on it now and I- I- I l- laugh on
it, but when- when we were kids, like cos me and my brother used to
have to share a room, erm, if that you know, became, messer, and me
Dad used to warn us, like two, or three times you know, saying, you
know, ‘tidy your room up’ EOS and then if we didn’t do it, you know,
just go, ‘oh you know, we’ll just leave it, do it another time’, erm,
we’d come home from school one day and he would like have ripped
everything out of the wardrobes, all the toy boxes would be emptied
EOS you know, just everything in a big pile in the middle of the floor
and he’d just go EOS ‘sort it out now’ y- you know, ‘you’re not going
out until you’ve tidied your room’ so we used to have to sit there for
like you know, three hours, just EOS tidying the room, and then it
used to be spotless for about two months, but then it used to get back
to the same thing EOS that’s why- but my room now you know, it’s
always spotless so I think that’s been drilled into me, you know EOS
every time **anon** comes ro- eve- every time **anon** comes round to
ours, you know, it just- it’ll be, you know, there’ll be a few clothes
you know, on the back of the chair or whatever, but she’ll just like,
throw her bag on the floor, her shoes and everything and EOS ah, it
annoys me you know, just spent half an hour cleaning up and then you
come round and erm, mess everything up EOS that’d be ace erm EOS yeah
at least you’ve got her your car, how’s your car EOS that’s weird
isn’t it? you’ve got to have a tracker on it? track it sort of thing
EOS that’s a- that’s a- that’s alright isn’t it? that’s decent my
bike’s got so many cracks down the side of it where the previous owner
dropped it on the floor EOS nope not dropped it at- I- I came off it
in EOS it’s on the- it’s on the other side I came off it in erm EOS in
Buille Hill park luckily, you know on the grass EOS so that was the
only time I’ve fell off it so far erm, and it was actually quite
funny, I got up laughing to myself just going, ‘oh my God’ EOS but
yeah, there’s like big cracks down the side of it and you can see
where, like it was been painted over sort of thing, but it’s like, cos
it’s like, it’s like shiny isn’t it EOS but, on the other- on the
other side, erm, it’s just like matte, matte blue paint EOS and it
just looks stupid erm, but I can’t complain for what I paid for it and
the mileage on it there’s still- it’s not even got a thousand miles on
the clock yet EOS ah, it’s great for, you know, just going back and
forward to work you know, takes me like, well, not half the time, but
you know, depends what time, if I’ve gotta go you know, down to
**anon** at you know like five o’clock and it’s really busy, just
zipping through EOS zipping through the traffic is pretty cool, but
did I tell you- did I tell you about that argument what I had with
that van driver? yeah, I was like just – EOS yeah, I was ju- I was
just like going past the line of traffic and I stopped to let him- to
let him come past on the other side of the road, and erm, he starts
shake- shaking his head at me going, you know, like mouthing off in
his van going, ‘ah, what you doing this for, what you doing this for?’
EOS so I was just like you know, g- give him the fingers EOS and he
pulled up at the side of me there, and he was like proper screaming in
my face going, ‘why don’t you get to the back of the queue, all these
other people have gotta wait’ and I was like, it’s part an- ‘part and
parcel of having a motorbike to be honest with you mate, you know, I’m
not gonna sit in a queue of traffic when I can just overtake everbody
am I’ EOS oh, gotta think- gotta think- gotta think sometimes erm,
have you not thought more about getting yours? are you gonna wait a
couple of years do you reckon? yeah cos I reckon- you probably need a
garage to store it in, to save it from getting nicked EOS no, well if
you- if you, you know, cos I know, the reason I got rid of my car was
cos the insurance was just was too high EOS you know, I think I was
paying two thousand pound, and it was only a little fiat punto EOS so
I thought, you know what, erm, this doesn’t justify it, you know, I
only travel, you know, n- not far to work do I, I walk to work most
days, so I just got rid of it and got that cos it’s cheap as chips to
run, three hundred and fifty pound a year on me insurance EOS how
much- how much is your tax for a year? bloody hell, do you know how
much it is on that EOS fif- fifteen pounds for the year EOS yeah, it
can be- it can be a bit of a- a pain in the arse, you know when it’s
raining or it’s a little bit EOS well I’ve been- I’ve been riding it
since the middle of- since the middle of January, so EOS you know,
I’ve been out- I’ve been out there in the cold and- and everything
like that, you know, with me long johns on EOS underneath me thermals
so, I erm, I can, I’ll be- plan to be riding it until it starts
snowing and getting icy, so, then it’ll go in the garage until I can
get it out again EOS oh, depends on the job front, I might get a car
but the EOS insure it- yeah, just insure it for a month EOS erm, I’m
al- I’m already on **anon** EOS but, you know, she uses it for work
going back and forward to Swinton every day told her to get a
motorbike but she won’t have any of it EOS I told her, you know, it
won’t cost you anything