One two three. Well do you r- . Can you switch off if you don’t think
it’s right? We were both born up in **anon** in Salford. Is that the-
Erm you lived across- we- And I- I lived with my grandma and mum and
dad. Erm and she had what called then a corner shop- which s- it sold
everything. Bread and milk and erm we lived with her she’d just lost
her husband and bought this shop and erm my dad was a and decorator
and had a lot of out of work. And he used to get three- he- He didn’t
then. And he used to get three pounds a week- to keep us all and he
used to give it my grandma. And in return he used to get a couple of
packets of cigarettes. So erm you lived across. Erm and during the
war, just after the war she used to put cigarettes counter for you
didn’t she? But erm I didn’t have any brothers and sisters. But there
were lots and lots of children. And erm we used to play outside on the
erm pavement. There were no It was just erm streets in **anon**. And
erm we used to chalk the flags play hop-scotch and erm play ball
against the wall. And erm hide and peoples’ doors and I have been
known to knock on doors and run away. And I got a good smack off my
mother for doing that because she And erm we used to erm- we never
went far away from where we lived everywhere was very safe. There was
no- no erm hint of any people- doing wrong things to children. There
was nothing like that. Where I lived anyway. Erm as I say my grandma
had a shop. Erm I can remember bread being four pence and milk being
four pence same time. And erm she used to have this machine where she
cut all up by hand with a machine that you turned a handle. And she
had loads sweets in one window and I was not allowed to touch them-
unless I asked her could I have some. Now I was allowed but if I was
taking any I got another smack off me mother across my legs. all the
way round. And stone the back steps- with a- a brown stone or a cream
stone. And while I was doing it I was told to do **anon** next door so
I had to do those as well. And erm what about you? What did you do?
When you were young. What did you play? Which was horrible surface. It
was like cinders. But what- also what did you used to do? You used to
go on the hills at **anon** which was near **anon** prison. And what
did you used to do there? You used to go swimming in the- horrible
dirty filthy water. Terrible when you think of it. I mean I wasn’t
allowed. I didn’t know this went on until we started to go out as erm
w- when I was about fifteen or sixteen. Keith **anon** used to mend my
bike and I used to go for chips for all the erm- boys and girls that
were all round on the corner there. But m- us best or funniest memory
was during the war and erm we used w- we had a back yard and it had a
little garden ine itwith a beautiful tree in it. The EOS So we did
have a bit of a- a little bit of garden but this brick- they came and
built these brick shelters. I can’t remember w- w- how- the shelter
being EOS But my dad made it very nice inside with beds and we had erm
some kind of a light in there and erm my grandma would never ever come
down when the air raids went. And it was very frightening- and it
must’ve been very frightening for them but I was only nine, And it- to
me it was a big adventure. And one night my dad was a- an ARP warden
like you see on erm Dad’s EOS And erm one night they dropped all these
incendiary bombs on this pitch at the back of our house. My dad
dragged the dustbin out which in those days they were metal EOS He
dragged it outside and he said ‘come on Brenda **anon** and help me
with water because w- we’re going to have to put all these fires out’.
And I was running backwards and forwards and passing him all this
water. And erm we put the light on. And I said to him ‘daddy this
water’s not going- there’s no water in unfortunately in the- so it- to
me it’s very funny this. We were dashing backwards and forwards with
this buckets of water and was a big hole in the dustbin. So as fast as
we were p- putting the water in EOS So that to me is a- a long- it’s-
I mean it’s a long time ago and I and it was very funny. And erm when
these bombs these incendiary bombs dropped they dropped outside a lamp
post. You used to have big lamp posts in those days. I what- what were
those lamp posts erm- And erm m- I’ve never seen my grandma come down
the stairs as quick. She’d never ever got up. She used to stay in bed.
But she was down EOS And one night me mother came out and she’d got
the budgie on her EOS So she had to t- and I said m- I used to call
her mammy ‘mammy’. The- forget what the bird was called. ‘So and so’s
on your head’. Sh- She turned quickly back and went you went back in
the house so that was another funny memory. And erm- about parents-
But as I say we were children. It was an adventure to us. But can you
imagine if it happened now. I’d be absolutely- frightened to death.
You would. It- it would be a very frightening experience cos my mother
was a very nervous lady. And she must’ve been absolutely frightened to
death. Well I never went in. My mother wouldn’t go in there so- Yeah
they built these brick- They were very strong brick. I meant there
were different types of EOS My auntie who lived in Urmston she had one
and it was called a Morrison and it was like a big cage. Just like a
big cage. A Morrison. And erm she used to have a lovely- a lovely
embroidered cloth on it- and flowers. And if the sirens went she used
to go under there with They had no children. Erm and then there were
the Anderson ones with in the garden. You used to go down into those.
But erm m- there was w- called a blitz. Erm it was a christmas blitz
EOS Nineteen forty- forty one. And my grandparents lived in **anon**
which in- still in Salford. And when I think of it now they wouldn’t
have child but I was ten and my mother put me on the bus where we
lived- to go and see- ‘go and see if your grandma’s alright.’ And I
went on my own you EOS it would be unheard of now wouldn’t it? And erm
when I got there the street had been bombed- and all the houses the
curtains the windows were all blown out. And I stood at the top of
this street and I cried. And this man came to me and he said ‘what’s
the matter?’ and I said to see my grandma and look at the house’. He
said ‘don’t worry I’ll They’ve taken them to th- what they called a
rest centre and it was in a church. And he took me there. Now in this
day and age I didn’t know the man. Well you know y- when you think.
Erm there was no- there was none of that fear. I do really think so.
Yes you did. Oh yes. I went to **anon** school. Was- yeah- I went to-
I went to **anon** School. Before that I went to **anon** School and
my mother used to take me and bring me home four times a EOS She used
to take me in the morning. Come home. Come for me at lunchtime. We
used to go through a- and a park called **anon** Park which is still
there. Take me back. Then come for me back again in the EOS And then I
went to **anon** School EOS and I used to walk there e- but if me
mother could afford it I used to go on the bus. And it was a g- a long
way from where I lived. So erm that school isn’t there anymore
**anon** School. It was called Bella Vista because it was the **anon**
consul at one time. And it was a beautiful house. It was really
lovely. So erm and what do you remember from your first day at school?
I cried and cried- and the Headmistress was called **anon** and she
said to my mother ‘leave her, she’ll be alright’ and I sat at **anon**
side on a chair for EOS And she said to me mother ‘she’ll get fed up
before I will’. So that was- I hated it and I was very upset and
eventually **anon**- I got very friendly with her and she eventually
erm persuaded me to go into the classroom . No I never got into
trouble at school. I was quite a good child I EOS That alright? Is
that ok? No thank you EOS They’ve got ten eight hundred and thirty
four pound vouchers to give out. So I don’t- oh, they’re always
sending me- You had a lot of brothers and sisters. I was an only
child. Well if you had a friend that was a car- that had a car it was
absolutely marvellous. K: Well he had a car and erm and erm he- he
said ‘save your- save your spends up and I’ll take you erm away for a
week’. And he did and we w- went to Wales and when I was sat at- I can
see myself now sat in that car. And I- I was hoping all my friends
could see me EOS Well I went to Blackpool once a year for a week. And
what you did it was a- I forget what they called it. It wasn’t self-
catering but you bought the food and the person that you were staying
with erm she cooked it for you. I don’t know what they called it but
th- they did a lot of that in those days and that street it’s **anon**
or **anon**. It’s still there in Blackpool and we went once a week-
erm once a year for a week. can I go- move onto that one? Yeah. Oh I
did get hurt while- when I was playing as a child. Like Keith **anon**
said erm I fell on this what we called a rec. We called it the rec
didn’t we? I- I- It was short for recreation ground EOS but we called
it the rec and I fell on there. Ooh and I had terrible knees. They
were awful- and we’d gone to- my mother had bound them up and we’d
gone to visit me grandma who was a- she was a lovely lady and they
lived in **anon**. And she said ‘what’s she done?’ and my mother told
her and she looked at it and she said ‘get those bandages off’ because
they’d all pussed EOS She said erm ‘let it- let- get the air to them’.
I can always remember it and within a- a day they’d- they’d all dried
up. So EOS I’ve always remembered that ever since . Your home town.
Shall we go onto home town? Do you want me to talk or- are you going
to say where were your parents from? from **anon**, from **anon**.
They made the big steam trains you know. My interests when I was a
child, I’ve just seen that there, erm was music. I learned to play the
piano. And erm I- I loved music in any- any form really. And I still
do. I still sing and erm we have a music group at church but of course
that’s- i- that’s lo- current at the moment but me parents, my father
was born in **anon** and my mother was born in erm- down erm in
Salford in **anon**. So erm I don’t know why me- me father came to
live in Salford but erm my mother’s never been anywhere- no she was
born here. And erm I’ve got a picture of her when she was a little
girl. So she’d- she was born in nineteen hundred and two so it’s quite
and old EOS And if you ever want any old pictures I’ve got them. Erm-
erm we didn’t move house at all. Erm we went to live in that shop as I
say with my grandma and the next move we made was when she died and
they sold the house, my mother and father, and we went to live in
**anon**. We were still in Salford and erm Keith **anon** was in the
army weren’t y- nati- doing his national sh- service. And erm we
married from the house in **anon** didn’t we. Yes he was in the army.
and I was twenty one. And y- Keith **anon** was twenty two when we got
married. Mm. And that’s when I came up to **anon** from **anon** with
a friend who was looking at some houses erm on the front there, near
**anon**. They were building those semis r- just round the corner when
you go towards the Trafford Centre. There’s some semis there- and erm
**anon** and she went to look at those and then we came to look at
these on **anon** and I liked these. No, no that was after. That was
after. No I brought erm I can’t remember her name now. No you weren’t
very friendly with her but then- I saw these and went back home and
told Keith **anon** and that’s- that’s when we came to live in
**anon**. In this house in **anon**. Yeah. No one thousand six hundred
and fifty pounds. Sixteen hundred and fifty. Eh. It’s amazing isn’t
it? But we brought a friend with us who was my son- my eldest son’s
godfather and they lived in **anon**. And he was a very astute man and
a very good man and a- we really were very fond of him. And he came
with us to look at them and my dad was very much against us buying it.
He said ‘you’ve got a milstone round your neck’. That’s what he said.
we were very, very happy. And erm my mother- and he- my mother thought
the world of Keith **anon** and he thought the world of her. Erm but
erm **anon** this friend of ours came to talk me dad round to say that
he had bought his house and it was three hundred and forty EOS And
that was a milstone round their neck but it wasn’t anymore. And he
said eventually it will be beneficial to them. So that’s- he talked my
dad round and- But we just liked these houses. We thought they were
absolutely lovely and erm m- m- what it- what was it we hadn’t got
money for? Erm- and my dad lent us the twenty five pounds. And by the
Keith **anon** wasn’t a mechanic. He was working for me father who was
a painter and decorator and you had to have e- eleven pounds a week
wages. They wouldn’t take the wife then. It was just the husband it-
you know if you were working that didn’t matter. And he was earning
ten and me- my dad said to Keith **anon** ‘well tell them you’re
earning eleven but I can’t afford to give you that’. But when you
think of those figures. But you see it just- it goes on and on. I
meant when- when you get older you’ll think well fancy those prices
that we paid then. So erm yeah. Erm in your opinion how has the
community changed in recent years? Well I think it changed tr-
tremendously. Tremendously. There’s a lot of terrible things happen
now that I don’t think did happen then. Children are- are not safe
anymore like they used to be. and everything is so expensive to take
them anywhere. I mean my son has just been away with four and he said
when you go in a- just for a coffee. It’s six coff- well five coffees
or five drinks. And it’s so expensive isn’t it. But erm everything
has- has really gone up in price. In the country. It was beautiful.
And we liked Urmston as it was. But I mean now I think they’ve just
made a mess of it. because it’s part finished and- and they’re not
saying- they’re saying until they- I think they- somebody said that
they’ve run out of money the developers. And erm- so it’s just a mess
I think. Yeah and they haven’t done. No. No. No they haven’t. And I
think they’re the ugliest looking things. We only said the other day
look at all that horrible wood. Where’s the design in that? And then
of course a build-up of erm- I’m not objecting to the Trafford Centre
but the Chill Factor and erm all these big things that keep going up.
It’s just lost it’s erm I don’t know, prettiness really. It used to be
a pretty village more or less Davyhulme. And I know things have got to
progress but I don’t- I hate all these great big things that are going
up. And erm I don’t know. Local people- We remember the- And it was
nice. It was a nice precinct that. But I do think there’s a lot of
community things happening now like erm the man that owns **anon**
that **anon**. Now f- I think it’s the third year now that he’s put
this community EOS sort of a carnival type thing hasn’t he. In the
grammar school gardens and I think- we went because my granddaughters
were dancing. They go to **anon**. And they were doing this dancing
group and we went to watch them and I just thought it was lovely. All
the people- local people all mingling with one another. And I really-
I r- it really uplifted me to see them all having a good time and
there was no trouble. Erm and I think the community spirit here is
better and hope it will EOS Erm the carnival on Saturday- there’s the
carnival on Saturday and for the first time there’s erm an ecumenical
church tent being EOS And they’re giving free teas and cakes. In fact
we’re involved with EOS And it’s the first time they’ve done that and
erm hope- hopefully well they will be telling people all about the
things that go on in all the churches. Hopefully we might get a few
more people to come. But it’s still a community thing and I think-
it’s a good thing for the community EOS Yeah and erm there’s not
really- when you look at the television and see all the horrible
things that happen in other towns. I don’t know I’ve never heard of
anything horrible - happening in Urmston at night. So I just hope that
erm- there’s- I think there’s quite a long of thing to ha- to do in
this community if you’re willing to erm- you know different erm- erm
what- what can I call them, different groups. So you needn’t be bored.
There’s lots to do really. If you go out and look for it. What’s your-
do you agree with me? You see- we’re very involved in church so I’ve
always got something to do. I mean I’m going out tonight. No I’m going
out tomorrow and erm going out next week all the meetings start so
I’ll be out about three nights a week which is erm- is very good. I
think it’s very sad that erm TJ Hughes has gone from Stretford. I
think it’ll be a- make a big difference to Stretford erm- erm town
centre. Erm cos I like- I like that erm shopping precinct. It’s
pleasant and it’s warm and- erm it’s somewhere for people to meet. I
don’t know what’s going to happen there. Did you get into trouble? I
didn’t- I was perfect EOS Yeah well I think there again- I think it’s
gone from the sublime to EOS Because I think it’s digusting now that
children have got no respect- for policemen and really a lot of them
have not got any respect for EOS And they try and blame everybody bar
the parents. Oh that was terrible. Well what’s uplifted me **anon**
was the m- the all those young people going in and cleaning up. I
thought that was wonderful EOS And some of them looked- I thought
golly you’d- You know so you can’t tell by how people look. But I do
think it’s erm you know that being allowed to throw stones at
policemen. I was frightened to death of policemen. I- that was silly
but I’d rather it be like that- than like it is now. I mean policemen
are there to erm to keep- to protect people- and the public. And they
get a terrible lot of bad pub- publicity. And I know maybe there are
some sadistic policemen but most of them are very good and decent men.
And erm I just think it’s awful that children should be taught to have
more respect. Erm and I still blame the parents for a lot of these
children. And I think a lot of these children as well are from broken
homes and they’re living in erm social erm- erm they’re- they’re under
the care of the erm- Trafford. And erm I’ve heard reports that they
just run wild and you’re not allowed to touch them. You’re not- if-
they know that if you touch them they can report you. And I mean I
used to get lots of smacks off my mother and it never did me any harm
at all. And erm I can always remember when I was- my mother had just
given me a good hiding and she’d gone into the kitchen and I walked
behind her and pulled my tongue out. And she turned round and I got
another one. And I said ‘what was that for?’ ‘because’ she said
‘you’ve just pulled your tongue out haven’t you?’. And years after I
said ‘how did you know?’. She said ‘I just knew you were going to do
that’. But we end- we were always the best of friends. Really good
pals.