Well I went to school in **anon** which is called **anon** school. You
know I’ve been there for a long time. A very long- I couldn’t remember
how many years but I lived there for a long time with me EOS Erm we
moved away from **anon**- and lived in **anon**. I used to live at the
**anon**. Been there a long EOS so I moved to up road now, which as
you know I live on my own, so it’s just that erm you know I get on
with- Yes I was. Yeah I was happy at school. Yeah, yeah. It’s just
that when I went there, **anon** in- in **anon** EOS I had to wear you
know like- go to a- like a clinic thing. I had to wear this cardboard
hat over me head cos the sun, for a reason, cos of me eyes, so EOS
That’s why I had me eyes tested. Some- I mean they sent you a reminder
that your eyes are due to be tested, you know. But they always seem to
be okay The- these are me reading glasses and the ones I’ve got at
home, they’re for the television. But as I say school sports, but I
never done that at all. Well I’ve done sports but not done- I don’t
think I’ve done music and drama cos I was fostered out when I was-
when I was a child. yeah, yeah when me and my sister were very- w- we
were forstered out cos me mother was tookayvery ill, very poorly- and,
I did enjoy sch- we did enjoy school EOS you know. But erm when we
came out of fostering I can’t remember what happened then. It’s- It
was a long- a very long time ago EOS and your favourite teacher, well
I just can’t remember about- favourite teacher at all about that. But
when I remember from your first day at school we just enjoy- you get
to know EOS young people you know in- in the school yard like. And I
do remember but erm that one in **anon** I don’t- I don’t know if it’s
still there or not cos I’ve not been down to **anon** for ages. I
think we did. I think- I think we did. I think we did. I think we did.
Now what- were- were your summers holidays like when you were young?
Well, when I was young I had no holidays been put back- erm I don’t
think I went to go away much. When I got a bit older. I have been to
Scotland. You know I’ve been to Scotland- Err I went out with somebody
like ages- I’m going back ages ago but EOS erm no as I said to you
before I’m on- I’m on me own now. So I just keep on going you know. I
like my walks and everything you EOS You know I like coming here for
my lunch EOS I mean the staff are very good to you. Yes I was very
happy at school. Yeah, yeah. Well you- you had to go- you had to go
didn’t you to learn. You know and erm I did have a brother. Erm mind
you he’s not long with me. He passed- He passed away. I’ve got another
brother- he lives in Oldham and he do- he do- he rings me once a
fortnight or I- I- or I ring him EOS and erm I had another brother but
we don’t get on at all. and erm what extra you are. Schoo- sports,
music- we’ve said that haven’t we. I like sports you know I like
sports. No problem at all with sports. You know you do the sack race
and egg-spoon race and all this kind of thing you know. No I didn’t.
No I didn’t. Well I left school- I think I left school when I was six-
I think I was sixteen when I left s- when I left school, I- Oh five
shillings oh. Well there’s one here one at the top. W- where are your
parents from? Now that’s an question because erm I got an old
photograph at EOS Very old photograph. Erm when me mother was alive-
she lived w- we moved away from **anon** up to- moved up to **anon**.
She was alive then- but I didn’t knew me father at all. No. So- so I
don’t know about that one but erm I mean me uncles and all that me
aunties are you know passed away. So it’s- So- so it just that, erm,
w- Erm sh- sh- she could- she could be. I mean you know. We don’t
really know. You know you’re so young you sometimes you EOS Yeah,
yeah, yeah EOS No, no erm EOS it’s just that I’m looking at this other
one here, the local evening news stories about thi- important people
know about your- your town. Well as I said before in **anon** I meant
to t- I meant to tell you this but I got two sisters which I never
seen. very long- for a very long time. I’ve got their address and I
gave it to me brother to- you know to get in touch you know with us
but I don’t know if he’s done it yet. I don’t know. Sometimes- I
usually go down to see him but he meets me so, cos it’s a long way. c-
cos he’s moved into a bungalow now you see. He’s not- he’s never been
married you know, he’s- No. I’m not that bothered about my age. I’ll
be- I was born in nineteen forty one so I’ll be- born in the war yeah.
So I’ve got an old big photograph you know erm at home somewhere but
EOS I remember I used to have this old three wheeled bike. Very old
three EOS A very old one you know. In **anon**, very old. And the
people w- w- when we put our house up for sale EOS and a nice couple
b- bought it. You know nice coloured people bought it you know EOS So
that’s when we moved for my mother’s health you know. So she couldn’t
travel. She couldn’t go out at all much. Yeah, yeah so- No. No we
haven’t. There’s- that big one in Sale- that’s just standing there. I
know- I used to go there one time. But it’s just standing there doing
nothing you know. Sh- sh- it’s a shame really you know. those- those
days, yeah EOS Yeah that’s right they’d shelters didn’t they. Yeah.
I’m not quite sure if I have heard of it. Mm it was yeah. I mean I was
only v- I must’ve been very young- to you know. It’s erm- Did you move
house at all when you were young? What memories do you have of this?
If I could remember it’s- No you ca- no you carry on you carry on!
Well when I left school- when I left school I would I did erm I work
in **anon**- in a factory but erm I was a- I was a cleaner there.
Cleaner. You know full time cleaner. I’ve not just do- I’ve always
done cleaning. Erm well it’s called **anon**- **anon**. It’s not-
they’re not there an- But the building’s still there. Erm the- it-
quite a few got made redundant. I couldn’t tell you how many years
that was. But I was made redundant. And then I worked in the erm- in
the canteen you know. I’ve done EOS I’ve done looking after children-
And erm as you know I look after dogs and all this kind of thing. You
know erm hal- in the fact the people I’ve just c- come back from EOS
Erm it was me last night last night cos they came- back yesterday
afternoon about half past two. Yeah. They were very pleased everything
was okay you know. Cos they know. I’ve been with them what it must be
about twenty one years I’ve been with them you know cos they know they
can trust me EOS you know. They know the two cats are being getting
looked after. Trust t- trust you know. No you carry on EOS He is isn’t
he carry on. I might’ve heard of it. Long time ago . Yeah they used to
do it- they used- Mm. Yeah. Yeah. Well I’m on this- what do local
people like? Well where I- where I live in **anon** I’ve got- I’ve got
good EOS You know. Erm I mean at the back there’s no houses it’s just
fields EOS I do have good erm some people- Yeah very ni- Oh **anon**
aye. Keep it. Yeah. Keep out, yeah EOS No, yeah, yeah. This is it- Mm.
It’s the same you know a car’s been stolen. They burn it don’t EOS
Many times in **anon**- they’re forced to put these new railings up at
that big school. Many time- I- and we used to go in there and we used
to look after the dogs. And they used to take the dogs in there. I
kept them on the lead cos they weren’t my dogs. And erm I used to take
you know a doggy bag with me. Anyway you always see- every now and
again you see cars been burned. And I f- I feel sorry for the person.
You know. Find out one morning the car’s not there. I- I can’t
understand why they can’t- why they do this kind of thing. My g- my-
Oh yeah I . Yeah. I’ve- I’ve done a lot of erm- I do a lot of charity
work for- for animals you know. And I- you know you had coppers I’d
save them in a carrier bag. Sainsbury’s carrier bag and I take them
down to erm Sale. the, you know, for sick animals. That’s what I did
because I love animals you know. I don’t like to see people to be
cruel you know. Well I seen a greyhound near- in Partington- I don’t
know who it belongs to but it had a- like a- one of these white
collars you know. I don’t know if it had escaped from a greyhound
thing or what. Or- it came up to me friendly. I was watching these-
these lads you know. They’re always drinking frigging beer. Wha- you
know. I didn- I saw this- this chap ‘go away, go a- away’. And I
thought leave him alone. Poor thing’s not doing any harm. And I took
some biscuits out with me last night. and he wasn’t there. No so I
don’t know who- who owns it. But it’s a- it’s a shame you EOS Well it
does with me because I mean I do believe. You know. I’m- I am a
Christian and I do believe. And I do a lot for **anon** church in
**anon**. And I help out with the Sunday School as well you see- with
the children. The lady what’s been doing it for a- a- well her EOS
She’d been doing it for a long time. She does all the work you know
EOS And I just go in with her to help her you know. that’s what I’m
going to do as well. I l- I like to listen to you you know. I like to
listen to you