One two three. Are we on then? is that what I was doing- right, then I
dunno Games you played when you were a kid. What, on top of each
other? I don’t particularly remember them doing that in my school.
From morning to night. Amd we used to play on the railway. On the
sidings. Pinching things from Kelloggs. Stoning trains, was always a
good one. Putting stones on the track. Setting fire to the grass, that
was always good fun. That’s what we used to do as kids. Kids are
mollycoddled now they couldn’t go anywhere near the railway. Never did
anything whatsoever. My mum used to do the lot. I wouldn’t be in the
house anyway cos I’d be out playing. Football. On the railway. On the
canal playing with my air rifle. Another thing kids couldn’t do these
days. Shooting things. Smashing bottles, killing birds. Sparrows,
Anything that moved, basically. Each other sometimes. Ah it’s my
education that kept me out. friend’s dog, little Jack Russell. If I
was allowed to go. Always cliques in gangs. Some people can do things,
some other people can’t. Bigger lads always used to go, sometimes we
could tag along. That was EOS Watching the dog get them. Flushing them
out with the ferrets. Yeah that’s what you do, put a ferret down the
hole, wait for it to flush the rabbit out, and then the dog would go
and get the EOS While you were playing school, we couldn’t wait to get
out of school. And you’re finishing school and going to play it. No
permanent damage done then. Didn’t hit your head did you? Ah well
maybe that explains a few things then. Used to help an elderly
neighbour for cash. I- I take it you used to help out then did you?
But- but what did you do then? Helping out. Yeah, you’re saying, ‘oh
well yeah I helped out a lot,’ but what did you do to help out? What’s
a Ewbank? A Ewbank, what’s a Ewbank? What sucking, making sucking
noises like a horsey game? You- you just- Did you make the noise of
the hoover when you were Ewbanking? Do you think Dyson could make a
Ewbank? I don’t remember one. How do you know? You wasn’t there! Well
I never u- well I never used it. That’s not helping me mum. That was
making food EOS for me to eat. Occasionally. That was-. Used to tease
me. Well the older one would. Yeah they all wanted some of the fairy
cakes. Wouldn’t say that now they see- now they see Gordon Ramsey they
wouldn’t be saying that, would they? If I’d have followed that path
maybe I wouldn’t be here now. Bigger and better things. I might’ve
been a better cook than you, I probably am a better cook than you, but
that’s-. That’s something else. So then this will be an easy one for
you. Because er- your grandparents- did your grandparents ever tell
you any stories? What, your granddad told you stories? Wasn’t during
the war, was it? In some countries they call it deserting, don’t they?
Were they captured by members of their own family? No not the Irish
side, not the first world war side. Probably so they didn’t have to
fight. Yeah they told me stories yeah. My father told me a story about
when he was shot in the neck. Well you would believe him, he’s got a
hole in his neck where he was EOS It was er tuberculosis. Given to him
by cow’s milk I believe. My mum wasn’t shooting. She was picking- she
was picking potatoes. Little girl picking- picking potatoes in a field
and er a hurricane pilot decided she was a legitimate target. And er
opened the machines gun- machine guns at her. And she ended up with
shrapnel in the top of her thigh. Something like yeah. Not like me you
see. Privileged life that we lead. Some of us more than others. none
of them. Youngest brother probably, eldest brother used to bully EOS
tease me, together with my dad. And me younger brother. All of them,
middle child, So can you describe what a Chinese burn actually is?
That- it’s no good for the tape is it? Showing. What in opposite
directions? Well my brother used to give me cow bites. I used to hate
him. Used to give me cow bites on the back of the arm, just pinch the
back of the arm. And he used to think it was funny. And I used to
scream. Think my dad used to join in. I think these days they’d call
it child abuse. Yeah I can remember- and punishment from me mum.
Always used to hand out the beatings. the flat back of a hairbrush.
Say, it’s not funny is it? What do you mean, kittens down the toilet?
She did yeah. She had a terrible accident one day with her favourite
little kitten. When she closed the door without looking and her
favourite little fluffy kitten got in the way. Not very nice. Oh we
had a budgie, happy bird it was absolutely fantastic, used to pick
your teeth. Sit on your shoulder, come to you whenever you called him.
Yep, he’d been rescued. Flown into my sister-in-law’s office. And she
brought him home and we kept him. And then me dad decided to give him
an airing, outside in his cage. And the cat got on top of the cage.
And we never seen happy bird ever again. I wasn’t bad. What colour was
he? So you called him Ginger and fleabag. How could he hate a guinea
pig? What was it like then, using your outside toilet? Did you used to
live in a mansion when you lived in **anon**? With- two up two down
with two toilets? So you used to have an ensuite? So whilst the only
person in the country with ensuite was the Queen, you also had one? So
an inside toilet was horrible? While I’m going outside EOS in the
depths of winter. No we didn’t have an inside toilet no. I can
remember it- that’s- that’s a- that’s an inside toilet that’s been
turned round from the outside. Originally that was an outside toilet.
With red walls that had been speckled with paint, like you’d do in
school. To splash on the paper. And that’s what we used to have. With
a nail. And newspaper. Newspaper. Cut up into sheets. That’s true.
Izal. Don’t sound proud of it! It’s nothing to be proud of, to have
Izal. That was luxu- that was luxury, we had- when we had the Izal in
that was like our luxury, rather than the newspaper. That was like a
good day. If you went in there and there was Izal in there that was
like, ‘yeah it must be pay day.’ EOS You’ll have come from **anon**,
you couldn’t have been- oh no you did have two toilets didn’t you? So
you were there in nineteen seventy two, eating cala- what, And you
were calling them calamari in nineteen seventy two? So you had a
toilet upstairs. And you used to go on foreign holidays. And eat
calamari. I bet you were drinking wine as well, wasn’t you? And
there’s me being dragged off to me bleeding grandmas in Windsor, into
a tower block. Yeah, really yeah. The old fifth floor of a tower block
or something. That was my summer holidays. Unless it was every year,
this. Wasn’t an holiday it was like punishment. That was when I was
older. I was just visiting family then, not holiday I was visiting
family. ‘Go- go to **anon**, go to **anon** and watch your granddad
die.’ Ah, so EOS That’s what we did. It was er near EOS **anon**,
**anon**. We had a good time it was nice meeting family. Couldn’t
under- watching me granddad die. Couldn’t understand a word EOS But
yeah, enjoyed it Not Windsor, I didn’t, that’s a bit EOS Well other
than going round the castle, the castle was alright. Just me and me
younger brother then so I wouldn’t be bullied all the M; Remember
having a bath once with my sister, well I wasn’t bathing with my
sister. That would be a bit weird, wouldn’t it? But she bathed me, I
don’t know, she would’ve been quite old as well, maybe twelve or
thirteen. Twelve probably I’d have been about eight. And for a laugh
she poured sco- scolding water on me head. I don’t know if it was cold
water first or hot water. But whatever it was, she told me to stop
complaining and put the other one on top of me head afterwards. It’s
no wonder I’m a twisted individual I suppose. See that’s my childhood,
see? Yeah so did your **anon**. So did your brother. Being bullied by
you, that’s how he- That’s how he feels. I’m sure that’s how he feels.
That’s why he’s gone to America. Because he had to leave because he
couldn’t stay in this country any EOS That sounds attractive that. No,
could never afford chocolates. Well he would be. Cos all he wanted to
do as a child was please his EOS All I wanted to do was please my mum,
make cakes with my mum, and I got teased and ridiculed. And all he
wanted to do was buy his mum a chocolate bar. And give it for mother’s
day, was it? And then somebody nasty and older went and spoilt it.
Spoilt his special day. His day with his mum. She probably was quite-
I dunno, a bit er- surprised that you’d been so nice for once. Cos
she’d probably see all the things that you did to your brother and-
but you continued to- well you always liked chocolate didn’t EOS Doing
things with chocolate EOS I know it’s not about childhood because you
know, when- when I had my EOS Remember I had my easter egg? When we
were married. And you got me an EOS On easter Sunday morning. And I’d
had it about two minutes EOS and you went all moody, and stamped on
it, stamped on it like a little child in front of me, Stamping your
feet over and over again until the easter egg was crushed. Didn’t you?
You can’t rememb- you can’t remember doing it, oh did you blank it EOS
you blank it out, that’s what I tried to do when-, I tried to blank it
out when nasty things happen to you, that’s what you try to do. mm, I
have my ideas why you did it but-. I don’t think that was the reason.
I think it’s just about your wiring, isn’t it? Well my dad’s not
**anon** is he? That’s if they are my parents. I always had the
feeling I was adopted because there was- I took so much abuse when I
was a child. I always felt there was something different about me. As
if I’d been abused, not abused but as if I’d been- I’d come from EOS I
know but it wasn’t like that when I was a kid. They used to- they used
to say I had a big head, yeah. What does ‘’ mean? What, me brother
told that mey head used to go ‘?’ EOS But if it was windy, what if it
wasn’t windy? He’s English, from Salford. From dirty Salford to the
suburbs of **anon**. Is that where he got the idea of a second
bathroom from? From living in **anon**? How did he move from **anon**
to **anon** then? To the slums of **anon**? It was a slum, that was
why you moved cos they pulled it down. Well they put Asians in them
didn’t they? That’s what they did, yeah. Immigrants. How do you play-
how do you play cricket without ca- being able to catch a ball? But
you couldn’t on holiday. Well you couldn’t! You couldn’t catch-. It
was fantastic. But that was the thing, catch the ball EOS Shall we
move on now, do you want to move on? Do you want to move on? School
days, go to school days! You had nice catholic schools, didn’t you?
That must’ve been nice. Bet the n- nuns were nice, weren’t they? I
wouldn’t mention any names Janice **anon**, but- I was only kidding
her. It wasn’t me first scho- they didn’t put me straight to grammar
EOS I had to- I had to do infants and juniors first. You got bullied
at school, didn’t you? Is that why you used to- is that why you used
to go home and bully EOS I didn’t bully anybody EOS I didn’t bully I
was just a bit rougher than the other kids. Didn’t bully them, no I
didn’t bully them. Just everybody- no people just used to have their
place. Mm, top bit of it, yeah. Top ten percent. That’s just the way
school was. Bit like that in EOS Do you remember your first day at
school? I bet you had shiny shoes on, didn’t you? New shiny shoes. I
wish I’d have had one like that. I had a briefcase, it didn’t sound as
nice as that one. What did you used to keep in there? I bet you used
to like dinner didn’t you? Dinnertimes. Did you used to like
dinnertimes? Yeah that’s because you liked dinnertimes, that’s
because- but you loved school dinners didn’t you? Cos you became a
school dinner lady. Yeah we’ll call it-. And you do some cooking as
well. Do you now- do you er- bring back your old favourites? You know,
the stuff that you used to like when you were a kid? Do you now cook
that same stuff for the children that you’re cooking for now? Do you
think the chemicals in the mint custard- Do you think they could
affect children? Where do they get the luminous green colour from?
That must be pretty powerful stuff. Do you think if you ate a spoonful
of that green colouring, do you think you’d turn green? What about
your skin tone though? Do you think that there’s Martians somewhere
that- I dunno, on some planet outer universe, that are green coloured,
but only light green, that they might take this green food colouring
to tan them up. Do you think there’d be same type of-? Tablets for
martians? So like you’d be like a light green martian but you’re
thinking, ‘I want to look like I’ve been on my holidays, so I’ll take
a little mouthful of Janice’s **anon** special green food colouring
and that’ll green me up.’ EOS What was your favourite school meal?
Yeah what did you used to look for? You’re in the queue-. Obviously
you’re probably bullying a little kid in front of you. Chinese burns,
cow bite. I can’t remember to be honest. It was all pretty bad EOS but
we always used to go back for seconds. You were always quite happy
when you was- you were last in the last year to go up. Cos you used to
get seconds, yeah. But I can’t particularly remember anything in
particular. They were big wasn’t they? Not as big as a wagon wheel.
Used to have them at break times. I never had one. I used to sp- No, I
used to spend my money on cigarettes. Well that’s what you did, start
smoking at eight. I don’t know what you’re laughing at. That’s when
kids started smoking then. Pinch them off your mum. Pinch money out of
your mum’s purse. Cos I didn’t do any jobs for her, she was never
gonna give me spends, So I used to pinch money out of my mum’s purse.
And we’d all go- we’d all go home after school and pinch money from
your mum, then club it all together and get five Kensington’s club. Oh
yeah. Or Park Drive or whatever you could get in fives. And then have
one each. More like a penny, probably. In old money. I wasn’t really-
it was normal we were just normal kids. Never got in trouble cos we
didn’t get caught. Er there’s a lot more er dogs knocking about. Er
British School of Motoring? The- the- the-. I don’t think that had
anything to do with it. I am sure yeah. No white dog poo went long
before then. I think they just put- stopped putting calcium in the dog
food. Don’t know what reason. Did you have a favourite teacher at
school? I know you got the nasty ones, the nuns. Little mob of your
nuns that used to terrorise you all, but did you have a nice teacher?
Was that your favourite sweet, because you look like a bit of a curly
wurly girl to me. I knew you did I could just tell by looking at you.
I remember sweets as a kid, I remember my friends giving me sweets, my
younger brother and two of his-. And two of his friends and two other
friends, best friends, they- the- **anon** and **anon** and- No they
just give me some sweets one day. And as I was half way through eating
them, they told me that they were- that they actually found them. Or
they’d got them from a girl called **anon** who was like the dirtiest,
horriblest girl in the whole wide world. And they said they’d got the
sweets from her. And I was halfway through eating them. And I had to
spit them out and be sick. She was that bad, we d- we perceived her to
be that bad. And my friends gave me sweets from her. And laughed as I
was eating EOS No I just thought they were being kind. But they
weren’t and it made me cry. Yep cos it was that bad. I dunno, ten or
summat like that. Eight. Used to have that effect that’s the effect
she used to have. Scruffy, Because she was scruffy and horrible EOS
Yeah smelly horrible dirty, yeah EOS Nobody would ever sit next to her
in class. Yeah cos she’s smelly and horrible and. **anon** I think. It
wasn’t you, was it? No she’s living in the next street. I didn’t like
sweets after that. Yeah put me off for life. It’s not that- it’s not
that nice really. Yeah it’s Leek. You don’t see many old people in- in
Stretford any more, or **anon**. Is it because they’ve all died? Are
we the old people now? Cos what what used to be the- the OAP home
became the young EOS And that was a bit shit. Then they knocked the
church down. And made that social housing. Filled it full of black
people. That was a bit shit. then they knocked down **anon**. and took
all the rubbish from there and moved that into my community. And
that’s a bit shit. Then the pub we go in. That used to be full of
people. And that’s a bit shit. Yeah black lads on mountain bikes
outside. That’s a bit rubbish yeah. Did she leave her purse out? How
did you manage to smuggle that out? Is that what you t- is that what
you told your mum? Then one day there was one missing. And I bet
**anon** was old and she didn’t know whether she’d give it you or not,
did she? You used to push her around you say? I do remember the nice
rose- they used to have- yeah tendered rose EOS Both there and in the
er- the council housing that was across the EOS Four storey high
council flats. All very pretty, all w- all well tended. Don’t have
flower beds anymore.