 There is a problem with the Left channel between 02.06 and 02.20
meaning Rhys is much more difficult to hear during this period EOS
just count to three EOS one, two, three, one EOS one, two, three, is
that working? yep, that’s fine, thank you EOS ah, that’s alright, ah,
that’s alright, here, you were talking about these cubes before, I’m
not going off that for the time being, I’m gonna just talk about these
cos **anon** has put the numbers on those there, so he’s done tho- you
see that one, this was a puzzle we got it EOS that’s not right that
EOS yeah, it is, that’s- that’s right on there EOS oh yeah, I suppose
it is EOS so that was that one, so I think he’s done that- it took him
three days to do that but he’s erm, he just persevered and persevered
and that was it, and he’s done them all, so that was erm, that’s
pretty good, and the other thing is, erm, what was I gonna say, I’ve
got your- those ‘Kiss’ magazines for you, about time too and all EOS I
was gonna say, mm, yeah EOS and there’s a DVD that I bought from- and
what was that like? oh it was- well, we watched it last night, I put
it on, erm, it was a concert that was recorded for- in the MGM grand
EOS that should’ve been on the internet, it should’ve been streamed on
EOS and the servers crashed apparently so they didn’t watch it, and
erm, but the concert went ahead, but there’s on- the must’ve only been
about four hundred people there EOS and it was- but it was just
invited guests, but anyway, it’s just a EOS is it any good? aye, it’s
alright but it’s- but again, it’s- it’s only like four songs, so I
mean it’s- that’s not a concert EOS I know, but it was only like erm,
a promotion thing for the- for- I dunno if it was opening a hotel or-
you’ve been ripped off Noel **anon** EOS it w- it was only two ninety-
nine the- the DVD, so we watched that anyway, so we did that, so I’ve
put that in the packet for you as EOS so I’ve got that, so I can trade
you for your Classic Rock magazine EOS so you’ll be alright with that
so have you been at Dad’s today? what’ve you been doing? did the
ceiling EOS ceiling is done and the s- that dado rail’s done EOS un-
undercoated, erm EOS then we moved the furniture so we can get in and
do some EOS stuff tomorrow and EOS I mean, it’ll be done in a room
and- has he repaired the ceiling? it’s been done, went to B and Q as
well, so EOS what did he- what did he need? Just to get some plaster
on it or has he sort of done it Problem with right channel EOS plaster
is fine he’s EOS **anon** done that flashing, then he’ll be- be
alright EOS oh has he been up on the- has- oh has he been on the roof
and done Right channel resumes EOS well, he was at some point yeah, so
if that’s been done then EOS he wants to come to our house and d- I
saw him in the pub you know EOS yeah, and he wants to come to my house
and all EOS he was in- in- in fact, he came to the **anon** last- last
Thursday EOS and I knocked his head in EOS yeah, and I said erm, ‘so
are you coming to our house’ is it- oh he said, ‘I’ve- I’ve- I been to
your Dad’s to do his- to do his roof’ and I says, ‘well, you want to
come to our house and do ours’ and he went ‘oh, I’ve been really busy’
I thought, ‘you lazy bastard, you’ve done EOS I thought, ‘he hasn’t
done it’ so erm, so that was erm- so that- so is Dad- did Dad say
anything about working with me tomorrow? yeah, I think- erm, no, he’s
not working with you tomorrow I don’t EOS I think **anon** gonna carry
on painting EOS oh right, I- do some stuff EOS then I think he’s with
you on Thursday or something EOS right, that’s tomorrow EOS oh is it,
Friday then EOS did he say Friday, he might come down on Friday EOS
Friday I think EOS but I mean like, once that ceiling’s done, I mean
there’s nothing to those walls in that room EOS to be honest EOS cause
he was saying about- when he was saying about getting a- a new bed he
was saying about moving his old bed into there and I said, ‘you don’t
want’- and getting himself a four foot bed or something, and I said,
‘you don’t want to do that, you just want- you just wanna, erm, use a
bed that you’ve, you know, use his old bed for him and buy a new bed
for that EOS for that room, so I’m sure he’ll do that eventually
anyway EOS no, I hope so EOS so he should be alright with that one so
have you been- are you working the rest of this week or are you off
for- for the- the- at all EOS I’m working tomorrow and then I’m
working Friday and Saturday, right, are you working d- days Saturday
or evenings? right cos I was gonna- I- I think at some point I’ll have
to try and get down t- town cos I wanna go to that **anon** and what’s
the EOS I could maybe do that during the day or something EOS yeah,
but but are you working during the day? I’m not working ‘til five I
think EOS I think I’m working at five EOS just depends what time I get
away cos I- I won’t finish ‘til half one EOS so I’ll have to erm,
we’ll have to have a- have to have a think- about- about going over
there cos with **anon** and **anon** away, we’ve got like a free
weekend, although, **anon** going to see erm, Les Miserables or
something is it, at erm, The Lowry EOS she’s going there with erm,
**anon** and **anon** they’re having like a girly night- a girly night
out so erm, hopefully might- might get away on Saturday so that looks
alright EOS so we’ll go at erm, we’ll just have a- a quick these. Can
you r- remember, yeah, where did you go to school? It says on here
come on with you, come on, I know exactly where you went EOS well,
secondary school Noel **anon** EOS yeah, secondary school EOS well,
**anon** oh dear EOS and where was and what sorry? no they weren’t-
weren’t the best days of your life at- no, it was alright, I think I’d
er- it says here, did you ever get into trouble EOS no, I was very
good EOS unlike you, Noel **anon** EOS I was ver- I was very good at
school, and I think there was a lot of pressure from Mum and Dad,
well, certainly from Mum to do well, erm EOS why? cos I think **anon**
had done well at secondary school, so because I think she was classed
as intelligent, I was expected to follow suit, erm and I didn’t think
I could erm, kind of do that well really, and it really used to bother
me, that I wasn’t intelligent enough and I was really quite scared
about not going to grammar school EOS and going to a secondary school
but, in the end of the day I’ve got the qualifications and I suppose
won’t, so I think there was some- not from outside or from the school,
I don’t think the sc- the school or friends or neighbours really cared
about anything but I think EOS I think it was Mum who- for Mum it was
important that you- or I think for me, my standard was- was to study
and do the right thing I think EOS yeah, I didn’t feel any pressure
at- no you didn’t, no EOS no I didn’t at all I just- I just didn’t
wanna go to **anon** EOS which was- which was erm, I didn’t wanna go
there so but I- I don’t recall e- e- when we went to **anon** EOS well
you never went EOS I did, I did go to school but I mean, I- I missed
the odd day and I think but, I- I just erm, I d- I didn’t feel- feel
pressure with **anon** I suppose because she went- she went to the
girls grammar and- and I think she’d- but I- I always felt as though I
was following in your footsteps at school because all the teachers
sorta knew you, so every time I mentioned my name, they goes, ‘oh you
the brother of- of- are you **anon** brother?’ and then y- you know,
but you were quite good at school, so I mean, it- I was good at- I was
good at most things and some stuff I wasn’t EOS yeah, whereas I
didn’t- I didn’t sort of like, I didn’t do any homework, as such, and
I didn’t erm EOS I didn’t sort of erm, I mean- I mean I went to
lessons but I mean I- I didn’t work- work as hard as probably I
could’ve, I didn’t sort of, use my full potential, so to speak EOS I
think if somebody had actually turned round and said, ‘it doesn’t
really matter sometimes’ EOS ‘and you can mess up and you don’t have
to get great grades and that’s still okay’ then I think that would’ve
been a good thing, but EOS it was kind of never really said so, I
think you’d- I just EOS I just wanted to do well and I- I mean I
didn’t mind staying in and studying, I think, you know, I was perhaps
a bit more introvert than EOS yeah, I don’t , but, yeah EOS in some
respects EOS see that’s it, I didn’t erm, I didn’t like the staying
in, studying bit, I’d rather be out playing foot- you know, playing
football or messing about with- with people so that’s erm- that was my
EOS well I think I preferred the books EOS rather than the football,
and the physical stuff, no EOS oh I couldn’t read, I could- well, I
could read but I didn’t bother EOS didn’t bother with that one, I
liked doing Maths but I mean that was EOS that was- that wasn’t too
bad, so erm, I was gonna ask you another question then I can’t
remember what it was, cos erm, what was it about, wasn’t about school,
it was about something else EOS I was gonna do- oh yeah, how was
Leeds, when you went to Leeds? cause you just- with **anon** EOS erm,
Leeds was good, about half an hour before I met **anon** she’d split
up with her boyfriend EOS sh- oh I see EOS so erm, that wasn’t a good
thing, erm, but yeah it was good fun, we went for dinner and- where do
you go- where do you go for your lunch? is that just a ch- is- was
that a chain a bars or is that a restaurant or something or EOS it’s
an Ir- Irish Wetherspoons EOS or is it like one of those EOS very ch-
very cheap EOS one of th- so we went there cos we had no money EOS oh
right, so is that one of those where you can get eight- you know, two
meals for two qu- eight quid or ten quid or something? one meal for
about three pound fifty or something EOS oh, bloody hell EOS so that
was- that was good and had a walk round Leeds EOS nice sunny, vibrant
city EOS did you get the train up there or coach? caught the train EOS
yeah, how much is that now? about fifteen pound EOS fifteen pound an-
an hour’s journey EOS that’s alright, it’s like a bus service that
isn’t it, didn’t- is- is it every hour or every half hour or
something? every twenty minutes EOS so that was good, I remember that
one EOS I enjoyed Leeds EOS so do you prefer- what’s erm- do you
prefer Manchester or Leeds as a city? cos it’s- as a city? erm, well I
don’t know Leeds- I don’t know Leeds well enough EOS well you’ve been
a few times now haven’t you? yeah, to know whether I’d- I’d prefer it
as a city EOS but I mean I think you could say that Manchester’s- most
people would say that Manchester outside of London, is erm, probably
the- the- the second capital of the UK EOS so many people want to
study here at University, so many people would come here for work I
think, erm, nightlife, social activity EOS for a big city, it’s very
vibrant EOS you got all your quarters, from the gay village to EOS the
Chinese quarter, to the Northern quarter, to expensive shops from
Harvey Nichols to, little cafes and restaurants and everything so it’s
a place I think young people would want to come EOS erm, and good
transport links as well EOS I quite like erm, getting the- go on EOS
but I think- I think Leeds is- is- is erm, kind of a clean and modern
city as well EOS I think yeah, I like going into- I mean I’ve never
been into Leeds but I mean I like getting the train, you know, when
we’ve got the train into Manchester from- from Urmston and you know,
just had a- like a Saturday night in there, I mean it’s not a late
night for- for us, cos I mean the last train back- train that’s back
is what, quarter past eleven or something so I mean, you’re not out
all night but, you know, like you say about going into the bars,
there’s a lot of bars up at Deansgate, and just have a- a few beers or
a little restaurants in there and, I mean it’s quite a good night out
and it’s, I mean like you say, I mean there’s so many people in there
compared to EOS you know, Urmston I suppose on a- on a Saturday and, I
was gonna say as well, that I don’t- I feel more threatened in Urmston
going for a drink then I do- then I do in the centre of Manchester EOS
I don’t think Manchester’s threatening at all EOS no I don’t, no, but
I’m just saying the amount of people that are in there, you know all
having a- having a few beers and, well it’s like at three in the
morning I don’t know, cos I never stay out that late EOS what, when
something’s kicking off? yeah yeah it used to, when I was- yeah,
that’s it, half two in the morning when- what was that- what was that-
I just can’t think of that bar EOS **anon**- there was **anon** I
don’t know if that’s still there, do you EOS that’s probably burnt
down Noel **anon** EOS I mean somebody’s- somebody’s torched it I
should think EOS **anon**- **anon**, remember **anon** remember when
we used to go in there so that was erm, so that was erm, that was
good, cos I was saying to you, it’s- do you think that Ma- Manchester
compared to **anon** where you used to live, now that’s two different
cities, cos **anon** more of a cultural city than Manchester isn’t it
EOS do I prefer it or EOS do you want me just to compare them? just
where- wit- whe- if- if you had the choice now of living in- living in
**anon** where you used to live or in Manchester, or- or EOS you know,
where you live now EOS I think that is a really difficult question,
because I have a very big history down in **anon**, and there are
things that I miss down there, erm, it’s a tourist city it’s- it’s got
money EOS erm, I- I- I EOS you haven’t got Lostock have you EOS well
no, it’s- no you’ve- you- y- you- your main- your main employment
there is the University, that- one of the top ten Universities, and
there’s the international students bringing in money EOS into a city,
it’s a heritage city with a Roman archit- ar- and there is a lotta
tourists in- in **anon** though, isn’t there EOS it- it- it- some
money is constantly be- being brought in EOS erm, developments are
kept to a minimum, you know, everything has to be rubber stamped with
the council of listed buildings and that, erm a v- a very bohemian
city, erm, very small and compact, I mean, you know, you haven’t got
the EOS infrastructure like Manchester or the- the vastness of choice,
erm, but I would say you also don’t get a lot of your social problems
that you possibly would in, you know, in- in a large- a large city EOS
and perhaps some run down areas, erm, around Manchester EOS which you
just wouldn’t get in a place like **anon** EOS yeah, I suppose the
thing with **anon** is, I mean, because, I suppose, like holidays up
there we used to go to **anon** and stay on a farm and- and, you know,
our childhood was, I suppose our summer holidays, our childhood was-
was up there and I have very good memories of- of being at **anon** as
opposed to, you know, going into **anon** I mean I- I enjoyed it as a-
as a city, but I think EOS well would you’ve ever lived in **anon**?
If- I suppose if- if- if I had the choice- if- if I’d have got
employment up there, it would’ve been a place that- that I would’ve
liked to have EOS but I always- I always actually g- going back, when
you lived there, I always thought that I knew **anon** better than I
knew Manchester, because I never re- I never really went into
Manchester in- I suppose in me early twenties I- I didn’t go- we
didn’t go night- clubbing or into the bars in Manchester, and I didn’t
work in Manchester so, I mean, it wasn’t a place that I actually went
a lot, whereas **anon**, because you know, we used to go down I
suppose with **anon** and **anon**, **anon**, and then you lived down
there and, we’d played, you know, like we played golf that time in
**anon** and we’d been to the theatre in **anon** and we- we been erm,
y- you know, t- to various places, I just thought that I knew **anon**
better than I knew Manchester, but I would- I would’ve lived there, I
don’t know what erm, whether I would’ve enjoyed it, I suppose it’s
difficult, I don’t know whether I’d’ve enjoyed it as much as I’ve- I
enjoyed the time I spent here, it’s diff- very difficult, to- to say,
but I mean I would’ve EOS I would’ve been happy staying there and I
did- I did enjoy the times that, that I went down when you were living
there, you know, I mean we EOS oh yeah, I- I enjoyed all those moments
as- as holidays down there EOS as a family, erm, with their being
countryside and a very different kinda- kind of vibe to it EOS yeah, I
was- I was saying the other day actually, do you remem- do you
remember cos you were saying about camping I was- I was saying about
erm, do you remember when- when we- when, erm, **anon** had that
caravan on the front lawn EOS and we s- and we stayed in it that
thunderstorm, and he let those fireworks off outside EOS do you
remember that, oh that was- I mean, I don’t know how old we must’ve
been then, must’ve been about bloody nine or ten or something I think,
and they had those- those bloody aeroplane fireworks, do you have a-
do y- do y- do you remember those firew- the- the aeroplane ones that-
that- that you turned- set them off and th- and they just used to go
‘whoosh’ into the air, and they’d go anywhere EOS yeah, I remember
those EOS he was setting them off outside our caravan and we were
crapping it do you not- cos- cos we didn’t know what it was cos we
were so young, I was a so I perhaps didn’t know what it was or
something, but, and erm, w- and what’s erm- what’s that ch- I think
they- what was- **anon** as well, wasn’t there, when we used to go out
with EOS oh, **anon** and **anon** EOS yeah, but they were good
people, you know, they weren’t erm, they were nice people to be around
EOS but I mean I can’t- you know, f- for me to have- I would- I would
live in **anon** again, no problem, erm, but the reason I can’t is
because I’m now priced out of a market, but, you know what, you have a
choice, you can either live live in perhaps a very nice EOS and not
get too much out of a job or something else and you have to weigh up
your job, and your friends, and where your family is, of a- of a
bigger picture of maybe what life is gonna EOS gonna give you or what
you’re gonna get out of it EOS erm, and there are things that I- I- I
miss a lot about **anon** but there are things that I’ve gained by
moving away from it EOS erm, and as a city, I probably would not EOS
wish to live in Birmingham, I w- wouldn’t really wish to live in EOS
erm, or possibly, you know, Edinburgh or whatever, erm, and I think
London is too big EOS I mean it’s too expensive, but it’s too big EOS
whereas a place like Manchester is EOS it’s got a lot of things going
on EOS it’s got a lot of things going for it EOS yeah, yeah, we had a
good time in- me and **anon** went erm, went to Leeds- well we went to
that **anon**, **anon** or whatever you call it EOS never heard of it
EOS it’s- it’s up near, I dunno, it’s just on the outskirts of Leeds,
but it’s- I think it’s erm, Leeds’ only five star hotel EOS and we
went and it was- cos it was our wedding anniversary, which you forgot
by the way, never mind EOS I did forget, yeah EOS yeah, never mind EOS
I never remember your annivers- next year, next year EOS there’s erm-
oh I’ll tell you another thing, I don’t know if you remembered, it was
**anon** birthday today EOS oh yeah, so it was- no it wasn’t, it’s
tomorrow EOS oh is it tomorrow? oh good, me card’ll get there on time,
cos I sent a card, did you send one, oh well I thought, no EOS don’t
think you did EOS erm, no, but I did speak to **anon** and she did say
it was Thursday EOS oh did she EOS I was trying to get her- to buy-
get a drum kit or something for **anon** or something EOS I’ll change
the calendar cos I had it for today, but that’s only cos Dad told me,
he says ‘I’ve sent a card’ s- he said- he said, ‘I’ve sent a card to
**anon**’ EOS well, good for him EOS no but he said that, no but he
said- he says, ‘I’ve sent a card to **anon** from everybody in
Manchester’ I thought, ‘thanks for telling me, A, you’ve sent a card,
and B you’ve-’ I mean EOS he was gonna do that for **anon** as well
EOS yeah but he could’ve said there was- that- that it was his
birthday EOS I said it was a very- I said I was a very good idea, and
carry on Dad EOS what, ‘from everybody in Manchester’ I thought he
should’ve just told me, I’d’ve sent me own card, I don’t wanna be part
of ‘everybody in Manchester’, anyway, I was saying about erm, the
hotel we stayed EOS this five star hotel, I mean we’d booked in, erm,
for like a massage and- and us- use of the pool and everything, and
erm, but I think it was about sixty quid for each, for the- for like-
what for the- for the night EOS for one night, but you got erm, like I
say, you got a spa treatment, you got a massage in there, we got
dinner, which was thirty quid a head anyway so EOS gosh, that’s not
bad EOS which was in there but erm, they t- they t- w- we had a look
on it, the cheapest bottle of wine on their menu, was thirty five quid
EOS that’s terrible Noel **anon** EOS and they had champ- they had
champagne on the menu, three grand EOS did you buy it? yeah we- well
EOS not the champagne but the EOS no, well we actually- well we wanted
a bottle of wine so we- so we thought well, the cheapest EOS money to
burn EOS is thirty five quid, erm, so- so we had to have something, so
I thought we’ll have that one, but erm, we actually took a bottle of
champagne with us, so we drunk that in the room before we- before we
erm, before we went, so, well, before we went down for dinner so that
was- that was quite good, so we had a good evening there, but erm, and
then on the way back, I don’t know if you, we went that’s- we went to
Todmorden market, Todmorden and erm, Howarth, Howarth is, erm, where
Emily EOS erm, oh and the Bronte sisters EOS what’s that like? it was
alright, it’s a bit tacky but, erm, there’s- there’s like a main, I
suppose, their main street which is just like up a hill, it’s- it’s a
bit erm, like a cobbled street, going up a EOS it’s diffi- it’s
difficult to describe what it’s like, like one of these Devon holiday
villages, you know, where the- the houses on both sides but like EOS
the Hovis advert EOS t- tacky shops I- I would call it selling-
selling EOS yeah, mugs, you know like w- How- Howarth mug and- and
then these- and erm, like, bric-a-brac and this, ooh, int- in fact
there was one good shop, I m- you’d’ve loved it, it was like, erm, s-
selling memorabilia and stuff like, you know EOS oh right, yeah EOS
but they had- they had erm, like some old, like old games, and they
had like, Thunderbirds annuals, and they had Doctor Who annuals and
there was, erm, they’ve got some, erm, like si- oh they had loads of
like vinyl, and I had to I was going through the y- you know, did you
buy anything? c- no but- you should’ve got that Thunderbirds book EOS
nah, well it’s- too tight you see stuff in there but I mean yeah but,
I had a look, but it was all books, and it- but it- I mean it was- it
was a n- that- that was about the only sorta shop I liked in- all the
other ones are, you know, lots- lotsa cafes trying to EOS sorta like
out do each other with- f- for what they’re selling for lunch and for
their dinners and teas and coffees and- and whatever else, but erm, I
could- it was- we didn’t stay too long there, coup- couple of hours is
long enough but we just had a- a wander up the high street and- and
there’s like erm, I suppose a not a woollen museum, but you know these
places that sell tweed jackets and local brew and things like that, so
we- we nipped in there and and just had a look around and got summet
from- went the tourist information centre, got a map, went round the
churchyard where the Bronte sisters were- were buried and EOS at least
you’ve done some cultural stuff EOS sort, cultural- yeah EOS yeah,
that’s- that’s about my limit, in fact we walked into the park and
the- and there’s a map of the park that goes, ‘you are here’, and we
looked at the map and we went, ‘I can’t be’ EOS no, can’t be arsed EOS
‘walking down here, shall we go’ EOS yeah, so we, so we sort of, we
sort of left there, and then we went to Todmorden but they had erm,
they had that like a some stalls on there selling EOS all lo- well not
local stuff, but like olives and- and sun dried tomatoes and bloody,
pickled garlic, and all that sort of salady stuff and then there was
a- another store selling, bloody home made pies and, a bit- bit better
than Urmston market, you know, if you’ve wanna buy a plug at Urmston
EOS that’s about- that’s about- yeah, or some- bout your limit really
isn’t it EOS yeah, yeah, buy- buy summet from Marks and Spencers, yeah
you’ll be alright, so erm- what was your friendship group like as a-
as a child then? my friends at school, at school, I suppose- I suppose
**anon** shouldn’t hear this but- well you were friends with **anon**
weren’t you? you- weren’t you friends with **anon**? yeah, I was gonna
say, I me- I- it- I suppose I suppose I’d’ve been seventeen, eighteen
may- maybe a bit younger than that- than that and there was **anon**
EOS and there was **anon** as- as it was and erm, I don’t know his-
whether he still lives up there, there’s **anon** do you remember
**anon** EOS I’ve not heard that name EOS you wouldn’t know- no,
**anon**, there was John Ward **anon** EOS yeah, I’ve heard that name
EOS right- it- I don’t- I’ll tell you- I’ll tell you a- it- I’ll tell
you a story about **anon**, he’s do you kn- do you remember somebody
called **anon** EOS cause he- apparently he’s not very- he’s in- he
was in hospital not long back with some alcoholic problems EOS which
is a bit of a shame cos he was nice **anon**, but, I think erm, I- I
don’t know he- I think he sort of ended up living on his own, whether
he’s in a flat or something I don’t know whether he ever got married
or was divorced or something but I- he’s- he ended up coming in
**anon** a lot EOS oh right, yeah EOS so erm, but anyway I heard from,
well, it was **anon** brother, **anon** that- that send us- send us a
text saying that **anon** was in hospital EOS it’s a shame really cos
I mean he can only be what- how old will he be, forty-nine, fifty EOS
you know, I mean it’s- it’s no age at all, although I know quite a
few- well I know three or four people that have died through EOS
problems, but yeah my childhood was, I mean I suppose that that was
EOS like you say, **anon** EOS and erm, with **anon** and, erm, there
was **anon**- **anon**- **anon**, **anon**, erm, who was the lad who
used to live opposite? I can’t remember- I can’t remember who he is
now, I’ll come to him in a minute EOS that was- that was one,
**anon**, and we just used to, I suppose there’s nothing really to do
EOS erm, we went to the, erm, **anon** youth club a few times erm, but
again you see, the trouble with that- that- that, again, there’s-
there’s- there’s quite a few rough EOS people for in- went in there
from like I suppose it not the coun- oh I mean, you know, if you say
‘council estate’ it sounds EOS but I mean it’s- it’s- it- it- you
know, there’s people like that, so I mean it wasn’t actually it was
alright but I mean if any of them went you sort of felt a bit
intimidated by it- by various things but, and then at- at school I
mean, I suppose, some of me friends- I didn’t really have that many- I
didn’t really have many- lots of friends, I mean there was **anon**,
but again he- he used to live near us, **anon**, who used to live near
us, you used to have more friends than me though EOS yeah, but I
suppose some of that was, erm- you were more outgoing I think EOS yeah
but I mean, I used to play football for- when I first started at- so
that’s a team of people isn’t it EOS so yeah, you got- you got eleven
to start with EOS and I- I- I suppose erm, I suppose maybe I did,
maybe I did go out a bit more in the evening, but I mean it wasn’t- I
suppose it was more hanging round the street, then- then- then doing
anything you know, it wasn’t, like o- you know, other than Saturdays
playing football ‘til I packed that in EOS cause I used to smoke in
the bike sheds and that was- that was the other social calendar,
wasn’t it, yeah EOS was yeah, well it was for you EOS who’d you meet
round- round the bushes, having a fag EOS or the top of the road Noel
**anon** EOS yeah so erm, so that was my social- social events EOS I
think most of mine was based around the band, you know, a school EOS I
mean I- I had two or three quite close friends I think, erm, **anon**
was quite a EOS close friend and probably erm, **anon** or something,
the artist, who I quite liked- **anon**, where did he live? Can you
remember where he lived? I can’t remember and I think some of the-
some of the people from primary school carried over into secondary
school so EOS there was a kind of known following, you know, when-
once you kind of got to EOS secondary school erm, and people either
got along or fell out but I suppose I just joined bands at that point,
school bands and local bands, and they became friends and they became
people that EOS socialised a bit more with as you got a little bit
older EOS cos you played a couple of- I mean didn’t you play the civic
centre with your band and hats? I think so, and I played somewhere in
Urmston, **anon** EOS where was that? Did you play there? I don’t
remember that, I remember the- go on why, why do you remember that?
why do I remember it? Erm, I think because you- you were shouting so
much that you couldn’t speak afterwards EOS and you’re just hoar-
you’re voice was so hoarse EOS what, cheering you on? yeah, and I
can’t think what garbage we played but we must’ve played a lot of EOS
yeah but I used to, you see, that- you see that- that- you see that
was it you see, I was- I was very proud, and I’ve said this to you
before, I was very proud of you being in a band, and- I know you was
EOS and the fact that y- y- you know, you play- but I was actually
very proud of you playing football, cos I could never do that EOS ah,
I mean that’s- that’s- I suppose that’s brothers for you isn’t it,
one’s good at one thing, one’s good at the other, but I mean I
suppose, deep down I- I don’t know, I just used to like going to watch
you play and I-, you know, telling people say, ‘oh, me, you know, you
know, me brother’s in a band, come and watch’ cos I mean, I remem-
remember seeing you, like I say, at the **anon**, and- and **anon**
and even when you were in your band in **anon** tha- that was erm I
have still got your CD up there, oh right, that’s good that EOS aye,
we’ll show **anon** the pictures after EOS so we’ll erm, so I remember
that, so who else- I- who was- was it **anon** that was in your band
EOS there was **anon** and, **anon** EOS don’t remember that one EOS
who was the guy who pl- who was the lead guitar at the front? can you
remember his name, that m- was that **anon**? I can’t remember EOS I
can only ever remember about two people anyway EOS bet they played
scout huts and stuff like that EOS whatever happened to your drums?
What happened to your- what happened to your dr- what happened to your
drum skin? oh that, the drum skin, the painted drum skin? it followed
me down to **anon** I took it to **anon** and I think I just had a big
clear out one day and it got in the skip EOS I really wish I hadn’t
skipped stuff like that EOS I bet, yeah, yeah EOS but it- you know, I
think things were alright, you know, I- I was just more of a- a bit
more of a recluse and a loner I think EOS I’d quite enjoyed staying in
and playing records and- and stuff and, just having two or three quite
close friends and the music EOS I don’t- I just don’t think I was
particularly outgoing to kind of go crazy, you know, and I, like I
say, I mean I didn’t have- I didn’t have loadsa friends but they were-
they were just sort of EOS I think- I think in later days I think
**anon** I mean I spent a lot of time with- with **anon** if you
remember, and then he moved up to bloody Hebden Br- not Heb- somewhere
up there, Hebden Bridge or something he met- he met **anon** who was
about twenty years older than EOS oh that’s it, yeah EOS with a- with
two kids, which erm, when you’re twenty I suppose that was appealing
for him EOS you know, which is- but erm, he erm, I dunno, we lost
touch then, and I’ve- I’ve not- I’ve seen his brother a few times, he
lives in- yeah, yeah, I’ve seen him, **anon** EOS no, his younger
brother, erm, **anon** EOS oh I think I missed **anon** I can remember
**anon** EOS well **anon** was your age EOS **anon** was the year
younger than me, and then there was **anon** who was a different- who
had a different Fa- in fact I think they were all different Father’s,
I don’t know, but, he had a- he had drugs prob- he’s another one that
had drugs problems so erm, that was- that was that I suppose, erm, did
you have a favourite teacher at school? Going on about school no EOS
I- well, y- well, I suppose- I suppose I did in a- in a- in a strange
w- I suppose I had a favourite teacher EOS and I had erm, a probably
not so favourite teacher, my favourite teacher- I did have a favourite
teacher, erm, because he was EOS who was that? I think it was **anon**
EOS oh, I don’t remember him EOS he was a Maths teacher but he just-
it sounds very silly- silly or stupid at that age, but he just came
across as very caring EOS he didn’t come across as erm, a kind of
teacher in a way EOS so it w- eh, go on EOS so I think- so I think I
kind of liked him for- for that reason EOS not particularly for the
subjects he taught but just because he seemed a caring bloke EOS I was
gonna say, cos quite a few of the teachers at school were quite, I
think, Victorian, cos they were older weren’t they, it was- oh they
were, I mean that Russian teacher was just, you know, a sadist wasn’t
he EOS banging on desks and throwing chalk at people and EOS yeah, and
he- pulling your hair and being really quite obnoxious and nasty EOS
yeah, and then- and then there was- it- it’s no wonder somebody took a
either a knife to him one of EOS a fist or something EOS someone
probably it- yeah EOS because- because they weren’t- they- they were
EOS he was quite- I mean this is it- cos I mean, when **anon** says
about her school and they used to call them by, you know like,
**anon** or **anon** or **anon** something, I mean ours was just,
surname- it was just your surname they used to EOS but they- they-
they- I don’t know, they- it was very, I think disciplined was- was
the word, I mean it was a boys’ grammar school, I suppose, it wasn’t
mixed or anything but it was- it was just very Victorian in its- in
its outlook at school and, you know- but it wasn’t over fun either was
it, no, it wasn’t, no EOS I mean it was I suppose you were there kind
of to study and you towed the line EOS and it was kind of Victorian
but, I suppose the teachers who were there perhaps had grown up in a
slightly different era even to what we- we had done EOS well that’s it
I mean- and I suppose it, you know, **anon** and **anon** now have a
very EOS oh yeah, I mean the- cause it’s a lot more open and- I think-
I think like you say, I think the schools tend to be a bit more- I
think they treat you more as people than they- than they ever did
when- when- when we were at grammar EOS you know, I mean, like you
say, you were saying about your favourite teacher, I think my
favourite teacher was a PE teacher, cos I didn’t, you know, it was
like PE EOS wa- wa- wasn’t sort of like ball and ch- it’s not- wasn’t
work, if you know what I mean, it was EOS was that the little short
arse guy EOS there was only- there was only- they had a he gave me EOS
I remember he gave me some lines once EOS he had glasses didn’t he EOS
I remember he give me some lines once, and I did them, I did them with
that self-carbonating paper, do you remember, Mum had some self-
carbonating paper that you just- what was that? well you just wrote on
it and it would carbonate on- onto the next EOS oh they must’ve known
Noel **anon** EOS oh he did yeah, cos he caught me and it wasn’t-
wasn’t- wasn’t hard t- to notice that one but erm, we did that and
then, erm, I can’t remember what I had to write now, but I remember- I
remember him but I just- I just quite enjoyed, like, PE, cos I suppose
that was the football bit, and I just couldn’t cover the- cover the
proper subjects couldn’t do- couldn’t do them at all so when are we-
just erm EOS I’ll have to come round to yours again with me- with me
guitar and me amp, like we said, we’ll try and do a bit a- are you
working- what you working next week, I know what you’re saying about
EOS I can’t remember what I’m working- I’m working next week EOS no,
I’ll just- it’s wri- it’s written at home but EOS give us erm- just
come over with your amp and erm, we’ll have a jam around or EOS if you
give us a shout about that we’ll- we’ll try and have a- we’ll try and
have a- have a look at that, have you been busy at work or not too bad
EOS not for the last two days I’ve not been there EOS oh, you’ve not
been in have you EOS erm, but yeah, it has been busy, we’re moving
buildings EOS right, when d- when d- they expect that to be- in four
weeks EOS is that when you’re moving? it’s seventeenth September EOS
oh right a- so that’s gonna be a bit of a nightmare EOS yeah, are they
closing the other one completely? well, it’s gonna be rented out to
somebody else, so we won’t have any kind of dealings to do there, so
it’s gonna be EOS very much a different job and EOS different vibe and
erm different building so it’s gonna be really weird I think EOS
you’re away soon aren’t you? yeah, we go away on the erm, oh, is it
ninth of September EOS we’re going to erm, Portugal and don’t ask me
the- the somebody asked me- somebody today asked me the- asked me the
name of the resort, and it’s summet like, ‘Cos’ or summet- summet like
that, I can’t remember EOS who’s going, is it just you and **anon**?
just me and **anon** yeah, cos **anon** and **anon** have- well,
**anon** been to Corfu with- with **anon** and EOS **anon** Dad, and
then **anon** been away with **anon** and then they’re b- going to V
EOS so, I mean there’s just no- I mean th- we- we couldn’t’ve had a
summer holiday this year with them anyway because of all the different
things that were going on, so we just didn’t have time to do it that
way so I mean, me and **anon** said ‘well, we’ll try and book a week
when- when they’re back at- at Uni or- or back at school’ EOS I’ve
never been there EOS well we haven’t, that’s one of the reasons why I
picked Portugal, or- because there’s that and- and Greece, I wouldn’t
of minded going to Greece cos I mean **anon** and **anon** have been
EOS and you’ve been and that was another one, we said that or Portugal
EOS so, it was just a- a matter of, ‘well, where do you wanna go’ so
we- we sort of just went on the internet, and erm, look- looked up
some apartments, found an apartment and then **anon**- we booked some
flights, it’s not too hard, it’s about- think it’s about six hundred-
it’s about six hundred quid EOS what for the- just for the two of you
for that EOS think so yeah but- that’s not- that’s not bad, three
hundred quid for EOS yeah, but I think it’s cos you go out of school
holidays EOS then it’s- you know, it- it- it works out that little bit
cheaper but we’re not gonna- w- we thought about hiring a car, for n-
you know, to drive up, but I- I don’t know, cos **anon** had a look
and even that’s summet like two and half hundred quid or three hundred
quid for the- for the week, and you think, ‘well’ EOS you know, if you
got a transfer for- for seventy quid that gives you two hundred and
fifty quid t- to maybe get some taxis or something and EOS and the
fact that we’re only going for a week, well I mean you’d- you’d spend
the first three or four days looking round the- you might spend half
your time just in the car EOS there’ll be trips won’t there, going
around? oh, the- we- well yeah because I mean they’re always have trip
to the EOS you know, erm, I d- I dunno, they either go to an aqua park
or they go to EOS yeah, other cities and stuff EOS you know, some- s-
some building or- or like you say, the next- the next town- town along
the- the beach EOS so there’s always that so we- we- we decided that
we’ll probably just get a transfer to the- to the resort and then just
see how it goes, but, **anon** and **anon**, you know **anon** and
**anon** who stayed in EOS they we- they- they’ve been to this resort,
well, about six years on the trot or something, so EOS oh well, it
seems pretty good if they’ve- so we’ve sort of like took a
recommendation EOS got a recomm- recommendation from it EOS yeah, so
we’re gonna do- we’re gonna do that but- that is so unfair EOS but
this is our- this’ll be our- our first holiday without either **anon**
or **anon** EOS just me and **anon**, so that should be- that should
be- that should be interesting shouldn’t it? we’ll get- we’ll get
bored after three days EOS just take plenty of books EOS be like that,
oh yeah, bought some books, we went to charity shop and bought some
books, when we were- when we were away at this- this weekend, oh I
tell you what else we- we- we bought, have you ever done that- that
race night? yeah, we did- we did one last Friday EOS those- you did-
you did- well it’s- it was funny because it was **anon** that, erm,
that mentioned it, and we went to this charity shop while we were out
and they’d got a brand new EOS box of- of this race night for two
pound ninety nine, so I thought, oh for that, I th- what is it? well
it’s- it’s where you’ve got erm, they have erm, like a DVD of EOS th-
they have like ten or twelve or, I dunno, how many horse races on EOS
and they give you a- all the- all the little slips, and y- you bet on
who you think’s gonna win EOS so they’ve- they’ve got like at the
first race might be, I dunno, the, you know, the Dean Morris handicap
or something and it’ll have all the horses on it, and it’ll say
favourites this two, or whatever, and then you just- you just bet on
it, and if yours wins or comes second or something, y- you win the
money EOS it’s like monopoly money as well with it EOS oh yeah, that,
yeah, yeah, they- they put like erm, I mean s- some places have used
it for- for like fundraising EOS haven’t they, you know, like, we’ve
been to one at the scouts EOS where they- where they do it and- and
you know, you bet real money on it, put a quid on- on a race, and they
use it for fundraising, there’s quite a few people do it for that, but
it’s just something interesting, I mean you can have a- a few people
over, few beers and some snacks, and, I mean that’s what- that’s what
you did wasn’t it? yeah, yeah, it was good EOS and erm, you know, have
a few snacks and just- just have a- have an evening of it, but erm,
who- who won the most money when you did it? we didn’t do it in the
end but I did alright, erm, one of mine was something like six to one,
eight to one, and I put three hundred on so I got like quite a bit
back so EOS three hundred, yeah, can you imagine that in your own
money EOS yeah, I know EOS but you’ve got a thousand p- I- I- we- we
opened the box and we got like a thousand pound note or something, but
erm, I- I just think it’d be quite erm, quite fun to do that EOS we
had erm, I remember years ago we had erm, I had a little games night
here for different- just for diff- I- I mean, this is for adults and
we had like erm, wiggly worms EOS have you seen- as- as one of the
games we did, and there was- there was a few like, really daft silly
games but I mean EOS we- we sorta split people into teams EOS or we
did girls and boys, I can’t remember now but, erm, and we had the- all
these like little daft- daft g- I mean it was actually quite good fun
because I mean, me Dad loves like playing daft games as well EOS same
as you like going to- have you even played that connect four? oh, I
love connect four EOS yeah, well I’m gonna- I used to love that, I
wanted a little travel version of it, they had it in Sainsbury’s EOS
yeah, you have to just- it’s better than a computer EOS got one in
there, that and tetris, I like tetris, cos that’s a similar sorta game
isn’t it EOS for- you have that on erm R game boy EOS game boy that
was it, yeah, I remember now that’s right, I’ve got one of them
upstairs, got **anon** gameboy colour or something EOS yeah, haven’t
got tetris on it, but erm, what was the other game you were saying
about erm- yeah, oh, but they’re all on like you’re arcade games
aren’t they, have you- have you bou- have you got your Xbox sorted out
yet? or did you buy a game for that? I have bought a game but which
one I bought EOS I bought an arcade classic game, which had a few
pacmans and space invader type things on there EOS do you play it? do
you play it? I’ve just made that clear Noel **anon** EOS erm, and then
I bought a zombie game, where you’re in this shopping mall and you can
just blast the hell out of a load of zombies EOS and then there was a
racing game which I thought **anon** would probably get off on called
‘split second’ but, I’m waiting for that to come down to twenty quid
rather than forty cos EOS I’m not paying that EOS is that a new one
then is it? but I’m not- I’m not paying forty pound for a game EOS no,
it’s ridiculous that isn’t it, have you been in Game in Manchester
then? Ask for a second hand one EOS I’ve been in- I’ve been in it- in
it but, erm, again their prices aren’t that low on some of the new
releases so EOS oh right, oh we’d- at some point EOS we got erm, you
got- you got erm, that erm, guitar for that erm, guitar hero from
there didn’t you, did you get- yeah, I think I did, yeah EOS yeah, a
few years back EOS and erm, and a game I think it was, a second hand
one EOS yeah, that was for **anon** wasn’t it EOS that’s- that’s right
yeah, yeah EOS that was it EOS yeah, s- saying about erm, I forgot
what I was gonna say then, I was gonna say something about erm, about
another game we played on our games night, and I can’t- I can’t
remember what it was, there was wiggly worms and there was another one
it’s- hungry hi- oh that’s- that’s a good game as well, hungry hippos,
but I’ve got- I’ve got ups- I’ve got erm, Kerplunk EOS mm, that’s good
EOS erm, you were saying about connect four, I haven’t got that
upstairs but erm, I can’t remember what we were playing the other day,
it wasn’t Ke- oh I tell you what, that’s one- another thing that
reminded me, Cluedo, it- there was a question in the quiz, in the pub,
he says, ‘where was- where was Cluedo set?’ have you any idea where
Cluedo was EOS and I t- I- was it- it was set in a house wasn’t it EOS
oh it’s- oh it’s set in, yeah, it’s set in this like stately home or
something, but I text **anon** EOS did he know or google it EOS ‘can
y- can y- can you tell me where, erm, where Cluedo was set’ cos it’s
under the- we’ve got it under the cabinet in the- in the hall and he-
and he looked through and he put EOS ‘it’s- it’s a, erm, Tudor manor’
or something, I went, ‘no, look, it’s like, set in a Tudor manor’ EOS
‘it’s not the name of it’ yeah, it doesn’t say- I don’t know how they-
how anybody knows it, cos it doesn’t say anywhere on the box EOS or in
the instructions, where it’s set, and it’s Arlington Hall EOS so just
remember that for your quiz, summet- well if you turn it on to google
what do you think it would say, do you think it would- do you think it
EOS do you think it would come up and say EOS well it might- ‘this is
where Cluedo is set’ EOS it might do yeah, Wikipedia EOS yeah, it’ll
be on Wikipedia EOS be on- be on there won’t it EOS someone could’ve
made that up though if it doesn’t say EOS I- but this- this is what I
thought, I thought I wonder if somebody has just made- just made that
up, because it doesn’t say on the box EOS or whether it says on the-
on the later ones I mean I- I don’t erm, I don’t- I don’t know so erm,
I was gonna say as well yeah, about erm, different games you can get a
‘Kiss’ monopoly, have you seen that? I know you can get one but I’ve
never seen it EOS yeah, I saw it- I saw it on erm EOS where was that?
might’ve been on kiss online or something EOS well, have you bought
it? no I just thought cos it was probably about two hundred dollars or
EOS have you got an account with Kiss online? no, have you? I bet you
have EOS I wish I had EOS I bet you have EOS I wish I had EOS I
haven’t got an account with anybody, Amazon, that’s the only account
I’ve got but EOS I- I- talking of old th- old things Noel **anon**
there was a DVD on Amazon called ‘Kate and Allie’ which you would not
remember, it was from nineteen eighty four, and it’s- it was set in
America, it’s about- and it had Susan Saint James in it, she was the
like, top actress in America and like, both of them were divorced, and
had two children each, and they were all- they had to sort of house
share, and it ran for about five years, and it was my favourite
programme throughout the eighties, erm, and they’ve got a box set in-
and what was it called? ‘Kate and Allie’ EOS oh, I don’t know EOS and
there’s a box set, erm, and it’s finally was released in Europe erm,
in February this year EOS and it’s fifty quid EOS for the whole of
this- this- this series, but you have to order it EOS and I’m so
tempted to EOS but I don’t know whether I find it funny, you know
after such a long time, but I kinda think I would, or I kinda think,
oh what the hell I’m just gonna blow fifty quid and s- see what
happens, you know what I mean EOS you can see if it’s on youtube first
EOS yeah I could maybe do that EOS mm, and see if you like it EOS and-
and- and see that I’ll type- I’ll type that in EOS do they have full-
do- do they have full episodes on youtube, or is it just mainly-
sometimes, sometimes it’s just snippets EOS I’ve never really been on
youtube that much EOS it’s f- it’s funny you saying about erm, not
being as funny as it used to, we’ve erm, we got ‘Life of Brian’ you
know Monty Python EOS I don’t know if you’ve ever seen it EOS yeah, I
have EOS but we- we- I think- I think I hype stuff up too much EOS
cause I’m going, ‘ah, it’s great, it’s great, gotta watch this,
**anon** it’s dead funny’ and but when you put it on, then **anon**
and **anon** are sat there like that EOS what was that play then like,
that Monty Python play that you went to EOS oh that Spamalot, yeah
that was EOS was that any good or was that just rubbish? well, that
was- that was a mixed bag of- of like erm, I don’t know if you’ve seen
any Monty Python, but Monty Python- just the life of Brian EOS there
was Monty Python and the Holy Grail, Life of Brian, and EOS Monty
Python live at Drury Lane, I think they’re- they’re- they’re like the
main ones, and they’re- and it was written by Eric Idle, I think Eric
Idle wrote Spamalot, he was one of Monty Python, so he’s put a lot
the, sort of ‘in-jokes’ in this EOS and it’s- and it’s- it’s run a bit
more like the Holy Grail EOS sort of storyline EOS of it but- but so I
th- you’ve- you’ve- you’ve got to know quite a few of the in j-
you’ve- you- you’ve- you’ve got to have watched the DV- the- the film
I think, to really enjoy it, although there’s- there’s certain things
in it that we thought **anon**, you know, he’d like that, and then
when **anon**- you know, would find that EOS and different things but
it was- it wasn’t rib tickling EOS it wasn’t like, belly laugh out
loud a minute, all the way through it, but there was some, there were
some bits in it that you thought, that’s, you know, that was quite
funny, and it was good entertainment, but we went- we went in erm, it
was good entertainment for- for an afternoon, and we went with
**anon** and **anon** so I mean that was, it’s just nice, and we had-
we went in erm, before- do you know where- do you know where- opposite
EOS oh yeah, that’s w- yeah, **anon** and- **anon** and, erm **anon**
have been there haven’t they? It’s Australian EOS have they, I’ve nev-
I’ve ne- I’ve never been, yeah, well that’s it you see EOS I’ve only
heard of that on rock radio EOS right, yeah, I’ve been in EOS cause
they go on about, sometimes, erm, they have like pre- pre concert
parties there and erm, so, we’ve never been in so- so **anon** says,
‘oh go on, have a go in Walkabout’ and we went in there, and I’ve
gotta admit, it’s a bit of a shit hole isn’t it EOS well yeah, it was
a bit EOS I mean, the seats are r- have you ever been in? only the one
in Leeds EOS oh, th- this, I mean it’s- is it- I don’t know exactly-
is it like just a cheap and cheerful place t- to drink EOS and are- is
it- do they have rooms there or something, is there places you can
stay? I don’t know, but the s- you know, we sat on these seats and you
thought, they’ve been ripped, and the, you know, I’m not saying the
floor was sticky but, it wasn’t quite as bad as that but EOS summet
kicking off in the corner EOS y- you thought, no, this is- this is
not- have you been in- did you say you’d been in it? I’ve been in it
just once yeah EOS that’s about enough EOS and it was- I mean I
suppose on a Saturday night it’s gonna be packed EOS yeah, but yeah, I
suppose it- I suppose that by- but it’s funny you said about
Australian because I remember, on rock radio, they were saying about
free, I dunno, free beers or something or, you know, come in fancy
dress and you- you can have a bar tab or something like that, I can’t-
I can’t actually remember, but it was actually erm, I- I don’t know, I
didn’t quite- I didn’t, it wasn’t busy but I just thought I wouldn’t,
it’s not the sorta place I’d erm, HELLO