One, two, three. Best or funniest memory from when I was young. w- h-
how young are we talking about here? Yeah, I think the best- probably
the best memory I have of- of being young is- is Christmas time when
all the family used to get together in those days we- we always had
all our aunts and uncles and cousins round on Christmas day and- and
erm- we- w- there wasn’t an awful lot of money but erm we used to have
quite a big s- slap up meal at lunchtimes and lots of games and lots
of fun. No television of course in those days so yeah that’s probably
the best memory I’ve got from being young. I would think that was from
being- from as early as I can remember being through- going through to
being about twelve. Something like EOS Yeah, yeah, yeah. But erm a-
as- as people grew older they didn’t want to- families got bigger as
well. They did- th- they didn’t get together the same. How many of
you? That’s right yeah. No I never went to the laundry no. We- we had
erm- when I was nine year old we- we moved into a shop. We used to
have a shop in **anon**. My mother’s ran the shop. It was erm- ladies
and children’s wear shop. We had a few different sidelines as well.
And my mother used to work six days a week in that. Me dad was an
engineer so he went out to work where he used to help on a Saturday.
And erm when we were there for six years altogether and erm one of the
things I think I’ve mentioned this to Barney **anon** before that
always sticks in my mind that was on- on a Saturday because my mother
was still working in the shop- I used to go to the local chip shop for
lunch and I used to get three lots of fish and chips for half a crown
in total. Now half a crown was twelve and a half pence. So that just
shows how prices have changed. But erm one of the best things about
living there was the fact that we had a double cellar and in the
cellar we used to have a- a shooting EOS With an air rifle. Erm and my
dad would set up so you could- you could- you could put targets- three
targets in at one end- and th- and then shoot down this little- walled
area and erm- we also used to do photography as well in the cellar. We
used to d- do our own developing and printing and erm cos we had
running water in this cellar. We had a sink in the corner so- so erm
yeah good times yeah. But it- We did that in erm- in- in the attic
didn’t we. Yeah. It was a big s- a big attic. That was a big attic
bedroom. And it wasn’t a small snooker table it was a three quarter
size snooker table. Are they yours? shall we move on to another- There
was when I- when I lived in **anon** before we moved to the shop. Erm
there were quite a few kids in the street and they- erm all similar
aged. Erm and because it was a cul-de-sac it had a sort of a- a- it
opened out and there was a- a- a good play area for kids but we had
all the fields at the back as well. And erm yeah there were quite of-
quite a number of erm both bl- boys and girls to play with. Erm I was
saying the age difference probably was three or four years older than
me to three or four years younger than me. So lots of kids. You got
some- can I have one of those mats? Maybe I think b- by the time we
went to grammar school they probably EOS but I don’t remember any of
the- any of the teachers at junior school EOS cars at all. But at
grammar school they used to park just behind- well- well I went to
**anon** school. There’s- I did three years at **anon** school erm
before I moved to **anon** where Barney **anon** was. Erm travelling
from the shop in **anon** was about four miles to **anon** school from
there and there were probably three or four teachers had cars in those
days. And one of the- one of the erm- the thing that everybody envied
was my cousin. He was in the sixth form when I started. And he had a
motorbike and he used to park this motorbike in the- in the little-
there was a little extension to the playground where the EOS parked
their cars. And he used to erm leave his bike there and I was the envy
of the other kids when I got a lift home with him. Cause there were no
crash helmets in those- you just got on the back and went didn’t you.
When we lived at the shop in **anon** there was just down the lane was
a park with swings and- and roundabouts and- sliding and erm we used
to spend all day there sometimes you know you- you didn’t w- h- worry
about your kids being out. Never heard of paedophiles and erm- Erm I
don’t think it had no and- Keep it anonymous. I never got that close
to him. I don’t re- I don’t remember what he looked like . I think he
was just a legend when I went to- when I got to **anon**. Tha- that’s
right and there was- and there was no traffic on the roads. There was-
there were very few cars so you- you- there was danger of crossing
main roads and- mm- It takes- it seems to take longer in a car than it
used to on the EOS I’m sure. Used to- we always used to reckon
Southport was thirty EOS I’m sure it’s- it- it’s the road system. Must
be the road system these days it’s- it’s nearer forty- I noticed one
of the questions here says did you ever get hurlt- hurt whilst playing
when you were a kid? I remember breaking my arm once. We used to have-
in our garden we used to have a- a six foot wall at the back. Drop
down. And we used to swing on a s- on a washing line- out and drop
into the garden. And my f- ankle got tangled up in the rope. So I
swung out and my ankle stayed where it was- and I went down and I
broke my arm. That’s erm- I’ve only had three breaks in my life and
that was the first one. My only- I’ve only had one break playing rugby
and that was this erm metatarsal but erm I broke my ankle playing
soccer- when I was about eighteen, seventeen perhaps. Mm. Still got a
scar? Oh aye you did yeah. How are we doing for time **anon**? Shall
we mo- shall we move on? It’s all about school and we’ve t- we’ve
touched on school. No where did you go to school it says. And I should
think the bridge was probably closed a lot more in those days as well
than it is- it is today- cause there was a lot of traffic up and down-
the ship canal- to the docks. There was a- always queues. I remember
queues when I first started driving every time I tried to cross
**anon** bridge. Mm. I started at **anon** school in erm **anon** or
**anon** on the border I think which was just a- a standard state
school. Quite big classes in those days about- I think I remember
there were forty eight kids in EOS Erm and there were- it was quite a
big school because there were four streams A, B, C, and D in the
secondary school and we erm- tended t- to have just one teacher for
all the lessons. Erm and I remember that starting in the second year
at junior school and the- the teacher came in- our form teacher and
started writing on the board in real writing. And none of us had
learnt real writing before that time- so he realised he had to stop
and teach us how to do real writing- before he could teach us anything
else. So that’s- that’s the- the time we learnt it. And then in the
fourth year we all took our eleven plus t- to g- see if we could go to
EOS And out of the school- out of the year there were twelve people
passed their eleven plus. And I was one of them and I went to **anon**
grammar school. And erm touching on one of these questions here. First
day at- at school at **anon** school. There was an initiation ceremony
and between two sets of steps and the school there was a like erm a-
a- the- the bank went down and then there was like a- a gully which
was about three foot wide and three foot deep. Erm and probably ten
yards wide at the very most and all the first year kids were thrown
into that- on the first day. So there were probably fifty or sixty
kids crammed into this thing. And if you ever- if you tried to get out
you got thrown back in- And that was called a monkey run. No no no no-
that was- it was mixed but it was segregated playgrounds of course.
Yeah it was mixed yeah. Yeah. That erm- so that was- the monkey run.
Everybody in brand new school uniforms- got thrown in the dirt you
know. The first day. Oh yeah yeah. We had to wear a school cap at all
times on the way to school- on the way home from school, lunchtimes if
you went out. Although you weren’t generally allowed out of school
unless you were going home for EOS Yeah yeah. Well I- I once got erm
into trouble for going out of school at lunchtime. We used- we used-
we used- But this was when I was at **anon**- We got- we got caned.
Two of us went out to buy a bottle of sauce to have with our school
dinner. And we were on second sitting and we got caught. Called before
the headmaster and we got caned for erm going out of school at
lunchtime. Or Daddies I’m not sure. One or the other. Yeah yeah . No
we- we- we weren’t obliged to wear short trousers. I wore long
trousers in the first year. But no we could wear long trousers. When I
joined **anon** school in the forth year there were still some of the
lads- wearing short trousers- in the forth year and that would’ve been
what age fifteen, sixteen? That’s right they- that was erm- that was
the same at **anon**. The girls had a uniform dress for the summer-
for the summer term. And the other two terms they had to wear gym
slips up to a certain age and then it was skirts and blouses wasn’t it
after a certain age and ties- Yeah. White blouses. Show that to
**anon** actually- It’s quite interesting- cause I- I think we both-
Yeah. I think we’re both on that one aren’t we? Is that the fifty nine
one- fifty eight one? Fifty eight yeah. Yeah. I was showing **anon**
the other night. Yeah came across it. Yeah. Mm. We used to erm- well
we both played for the same under fifteens- football team. **anon**
was captain who we still see occassionally. And erm Barney **anon**
was vice captain and I’d just joined the school in the fourth year.
And played in one or two games classes and they picked me to play on
the under fifteens team. So we’ve got a photograph of that somewhere.
We played in- and then we played e- for the school team didn’t we the
EOS And the erm- the full team. But we were both quite keen on erm
athletics and- and sports as well. I never played cricket very much
but erm- I used to join in all the erm different sports day
activities. That were before erm- oh yeah cos you were a year- no it’s
probably the year I joined. But you were in- you were a year younger
than me. So you were still in junior school weren’t you. Oh is- it was
when you were in second year was it. Did you yeah. Cause I came second
to **anon** in the erm middle school. Erm Rex Ludorum they used to
call it. King of the games. I came- I came second and **anon** came
third. Much to his annoyance. He’d been bragging the year before- that
he was gonna win it. Was it Victor a- at **anon**. It was Rex at
**anon**. Victor at **anon**. Victor Ludorum. I don’t know what the
girl got called. Don’t know. Didn’t- I didn’t know any girls called
Victor. Oh blimey. No no- that would- that would stay- that would stay
no Ludorum. Th- that would- that wouldn’t- that wouldn’t be sexed. No
it’s- that- that Ludorum means ‘of the games’ doesn’t it? So it
could’ve been erm- Vict- could’ve been Victris or some- Victrix.
Victrix or something like that I suppose. Well yeah we were in- the
school choir and then- No I wasn’t in the school orchestra. No. No I
never went in the sc- well what did you play in the school- Oh yeah
it’s right. That was after I’d left I think. It was when I was in the
sixth form. Played at school- school con- school dance yeah. As a
group. Yeah. Yeah we- No no no no. It was the school dance. Yeah- at
erm- we were the first group ever- to play at a school dance. That was
in nineteen fifty eight. Christmas dance. I can even remember what
songs we played . It was erm- I sang erm Tom Dooley and erm what was
the other one. Flip side of it. What was it called? Run a- rock my
soul. And you sang- Travelling Light. Mm. And we’re still practising.
Well I w- well I left. I left that Christmas. Yeah w- yeah I started
work. Yeah. Yeah. And then he went off to university so we split up
then. But we didn’t- no- not- no- As such- yeah. Of a sort. Mm. Oh it
w- it was a treat to have played at a venue where they had a
microphone wasn’t it- because quite a few of them didn’t. So there
were no mic- no amplification in some of them. The school had a- a
microphone didn’t they. And the erm- certainly Eccles town hall did.
Oh yeah yeah the echoes. I think I probably just went the odd time.
But I used to **anon** when I was younger and we used to go from
school. We were taught to swim from school went to **anon**. that was-
that was quite- and **anon**. I- I went to **anon** a few times. I lot
of my youth I spent in the scouts and the sea scouts based at **anon**
from being about thirteen year old- up to it was probably about twenty
six when I packed it in altogether EOS What we used to do spend a load
of time goin away camping and- Yeah. But erm- Well everybody went to
Sunday school in those days- but it was- it was only once for me.
There was no choir cos it was a little mission church down in
**anon**. No no no. Well the church was the other side wasn’t it?