one, two, three EOS oh super, we’re on, we’re off and running EOS so
we’ve got all these things just to discuss then? that should be good,
okay, let’s- let’s start with erm, with- gosh, that’s a hard one to
begin with EOS my best memory from when I was young EOS not funny, no
I’m r- I’m rubbish with a- my memory EOS you’re best or funny memory,
go on, oh, not good EOS I can remember a scary moment when I was
younger, with me Dad driving when we’re on our way to Wales, you can
imagine like, there was seven in a car EOS well, we had one of those
like vans, you know, that you used to sit EOS at the back of EOS it
was a little sort of t- with a, erm, like a transit van but with- with
seats in and well, up to the hilt with luggage EOS c- going- dest- to
the Wales for the caravan and it was in the days when obviously,
there’s no motorway, it was all back roads EOS and tiny little
villages you had to go through, so me Dad decides to sort of like,
‘oh, I think I might go back this way, might be a shortcut’ can
imagine, we’re going down a- and it was just the sheerest hill you
have ever seen, and it- oh God, I- it wasn’t- it was really scary
honestly, it was just- it was just me Mum’s like looking out, the side
of the front, it was just like a sheer drop, he’d gone down this
strange road, don’t know why he did, he thought it was a village EOS
set to the village, and it wasn’t, it one of these country little
lanes that just- but the road was just so, it was just steep like that
it- you could hear him on the brakes going, ah God, it was so- it’s
funny now EOS scary, it was scary at the time EOS yeah, oh it- it was
really funny though EOS you should’ve heard me mother EOS I do
remember that journey going to Wales EOS that day yeah, that was a bit
scary going down that EOS really, re- he managed to do it fortunately
but, didn’t go that way EOS I don’t know it- I EOS it was so- I was y-
I was so young, I really wouldn’t remember EOS but yeah, it was do you
know like all the old Flint, and you have to go through all the old
EOS villages like that EOS it was before one of those, I ah, I
couldn’t- I couldn’t believe how steep this little tiny road he
decided to take us down was EOS it was funny EOS but it was a big- I
mean, it was like a big tranny van thing you know, with all us kids in
the back with all the lugga- it was so fu- I don’t know how he managed
it to be honest- I don’t know why we just EOS and it was like turning
down, no, not very nice but that was- it was- it’s f- like as you say,
it- f- it’s funny isn’t it how you EOS how you think back, you think,
that was really scary at the time and EOS now you think, how funny,
what th- how EOS how funny that was EOS when you think about it now
EOS in the street, yeah, we used to play like hopscotch, which was
like the favourite one EOS wasn’t it and, ticky-hit and- or kingy as
we used to call it cos we used to play it with a ball EOS used to
chuck a ball at somebody EOS and if you got them then obviously then
they were it then yeah EOS and elastics, I used to love elastics EOS
just be skipping along yeah EOS yeah, I used to love elastics, yeah
EOS yeah, you didn’t really integrate really did you? was that
**anon** you used to go across to? right, I don’t know that one EOS
yeah cos you’re quite close there aren’t you, to that one EOS not
quite rounders then EOS oh yeah, you had to, yeah to, yeah EOS yeah,
oh aye EOS grease it up EOS oh yeah, and they dropped it and you had
to pick it up as you were on the way round, yeah EOS yeah, I remember
that now EOS yeah, thrupenny bit they was called EOS or- or the spider
even EOS try and get the lolly stick EOS that’s where your migraines
are coming from EOS it was the park yeah, you just used to EOS oh
yeah, but I had to be in at a certain time EOS otherwise I’d really
get told off EOS you know, it was like half past nine and EOS if
you’re not in you’re in trouble EOS do you not? Oh yeah, we- yeah, she
didn’t like us out being after dark EOS but yeah, summer time EOS oh
during the day yeah, just anytime yeah EOS just came back when- when
we were hungry like you do EOS yeah, ‘feed me, I’m hungry now’ yeah
EOS well I didn’t know one Granddad cos he died before me Mum got
married EOS her Dad died before she got married EOS I just know me
Granddad was dead grumpy on me Dad’s side EOS he used to call- yeah
EOS he- he- oh God, yeah, he used to just come, and he used to just
come in and he’d- he would say, ‘hello’ you know, like, you haven’t
got like- like the kids of today, they haven’t got the relationship
with EOS grandparents that we had, they were just these old people
that just turned up and you just thought, ‘oh, okay’ EOS and he’d sit
down, and then he’d- he’d just say, ‘well, does anybody want one of
these or what’ and it’s like, you know, y- your EOS and they’re
stinking of mothballs out of his pocket EOS he used to always insist
you have one of his mints EOS ah, no that was me Granddad on me Dad’s
side, can just- that’s all y- I remember about him, just being big
grumpy man with smelly EOS oh right, yeah EOS you have, yeah, cos my,
yeah the person- the Granddad I’m talking about, I had- was thirteen
when he died EOS it’s quite early really EOS yeah, it’s a longer time
EOS and I can remember my Mum’s Mum she was very much like Mum, she
was small lady, but she had one leg longer than the other and I can-
and I can- all I can picture of her now is, erm, going through our
living room into the kitchen, and there was like a doorway, and she
just used to stand there and she was just swinging her leg back and
forth EOS she had to exercise her leg EOS cause it used to get very
stiff and very you know, and- and- and ache really, more of an ache
EOS she used to have built up shoes, her shoe- her other shoe like-
was like the- the heel, bit like platforms I suppose nowadays EOS but
they- the- the- the sole and the heels were like massive EOS just one
leg, she had one leg about four inches shorter than the other EOS and
I can just remember she used to always come to EOS the house and she
use to always s- stand in the doorway and she was always in the
kitchen doorway and leg would be swinging back and forth, back and
forth, for- for ages she’d just be stood there EOS so that’s just the
memory of my Gran that I have, it’s weird isn’t it, how you just EOS
nothing really else, we didn’t do anything with her, she just came to
the house and perhaps we had tea and- but I just can see her, stood
EOS swinging her leg EOS yeah, it just seemed a long way EOS no, they
probably didn’t EOS it’s a long- long journey EOS major sort of EOS
day out really EOS I think you find that anyway don’t you, some, more
often EOS by the steps EOS you must’ve done EOS yeah, I did get hurt
beca- I remember- I remember playing erm, well, I- I think it was just
something I- I was doing meself, it wasn’t a game that any- I had erm,
a broom pole, you know the hand- the- the brush bit had come off the
broom EOS so I just had th- the pole bit, and I remember rolling it, I
don’t know why, I just remember rolling it in front of me and then
deciding to jump over it and of course, in my haste to try and jump
over it, I’d rolled it, and I didn’t clear it, and I put me foot on it
EOS and of course, rolled with it EOS and I just remember going right
back and banging EOS my head so hard on the concrete, I can remember
doing that, such a lump came up EOS but I remember that’s- that’s the
only time I’ve really hurt myself, I’ve never like broken any bones,
I’ve never- touch wood, I’ve never broken a leg, broken an arm EOS you
know, had anything in plaster, or you know, slashed meself or anything
EOS or cuts and bruises, I just remember, I don’t know how old- in
fact it was before we moved into Stretford so I must’ve only been
about six, five or six EOS I just remembered it, but isn’t it funny
cos I can remember that though cos it blooming EOS yeah, and really
banging me head, yeah and cos like, you know, me crying me eyes out,
coming running in, ‘what’ve you done, what’ve you done’ EOS so of
course, like, you know, lying there and then she thinks I’ve got
concussion then, ‘you mustn’t go to sleep’ you know, ‘you must stay
awake’ EOS mm, just forward EOS she would’ve done, yeah EOS where it’s
hit her EOS they were wood, yeah EOS yeah, they were quite heavy EOS
just caught her EOS I can imagine EOS get into trouble EOS no, I was-
I was good unfortunately EOS we did play truant once, it was our
**anon** doing EOS ‘let’s- let’s have the day off’ and we got caught
straight away we got back EOS it didn’t- it didn’t work somehow EOS
I’d- I think **anon** must’ve written a note that wasn’t very good I
don’t know EOS I don’t think she’s a very good forger of the erm, the
old signature EOS so erm, no, we’d gone into town, we’d spent the day
in town, I don’t know why, she just decided ‘let’s not go to school’,
so erm, so we didn’t, s- no, but I- yeah, we got called into erm, the
headmistresses office so it wasn’t good EOS I didn’t get totally told
off, I mean it was our erm, first offence EOS erm, it was a bit scary
so she made me go to the teacher EOS that I was in the class of next,
you know, when I was going, and then erm, she says, ‘you’re gonna have
to go and explain now, to the teacher now, why you weren’t in school
yesterday’ and it was dead embarrassing cos it was the- it had to be
the teacher that you fancied didn’t it EOS it was the Biology teacher
EOS and everybody fancied the Biology teacher EOS he was lovely and he
was my form teacher at the time and I had to go an explain to him why
I wasn’t in school EOS the previous day, I didn’t EOS I didn’t, I- I-
I cowered out of that I just said, ‘ooh, I’ve been to see the
headmistress, I’ve gotta come join the class now’ EOS but I wasn’t,
yeah- I wasn’t n- I wasn’t a troublemaker EOS what, the starring part
as well EOS the angels? Yeah, and they didn’t really do much, they
just stood there, looking pretty EOS yeah, strange thing on your head
EOS so did they think you were very ungrateful then and not- oh, good
Lord EOS so you’d just taken a shortcut EOS oh yeah, and those iron
legs EOS ah, guilty as charged EOS and you didn’t like to be thought
that you were gonna be like that EOS you just think, ‘oh, I’m scarred
now, they’re gonna just think I’m like that all the time’ EOS least
teachers, hmm EOS not in town wise, no, Manchester, yeah EOS yeah, me
Dad used to, yeah, he was from **anon** erm, and me Mum was from down
South, **anon** way EOS we- yeah, she didn’t live there very long EOS
come up North, then, yeah EOS so she met me Dad and then they just,
yeah, it was erm, **anon** they sort of settled in, so EOS well it
was, yeah it was a posh place to come to, yeah EOS mm oh yeah EOS it
was a more well to do place to move to EOS not really no, we had to
move from Old Trafford cos our house was EOS so we had no choice EOS
yeah, they pulled down our houses EOS they were terraced houses yeah,
yeah, big rooms, but erm, it’s- but it wasn’t really big enough for us
because like me Mum used to use the front parlour, as it were then, as
a- a bedroom EOS still three bedrooms, yeah, so it was- and with- with
being like, you know, two lads, two girls and it was a bit cramped EOS
that was before **anon** came along, **anon** came along after we
moved EOS it was a lot bigger, and of course, we had the garden which
was like, marvellous, you know, we only had a little yard before EOS
and the outside toilet so, to have a bathroom and a garden, it was
like a palace wasn’t it EOS it was lovely, although it was very
different, what y- how you remember the house, it was very different
when we first moved in EOS because there was- there was two rooms EOS
yeah, they’d knocked down quite a few walls, erm, when we first moved
in that house it was like one of these where you- you go through one
door and you’re in- in the front room, you go through another door and
you’re in the dining area, you go through another door and you’re in
the kitchen, and then you come back in this door, and you’re back in
EOS so as kids we used to drive my Mum mental, just running round,
chasing each other EOS round and round all these doors, it was great
EOS just- just- just chasing EOS just- just playing ticky-hit round
the doors EOS she’d go mad with us EOS but it was just so much space
you know, just EOS even though the rooms were, like- no, the room- the
rooms weren’t too bad EOS but, it was just the fact that we could- we
could just utilise each room, you know EOS before like, we were just
stuck in one room in the back EOS and when you say big rooms they
were- they were- I don’t think it was probably as big as your Mum’s
perhaps EOS it didn’t- it was- it would probably the same as this room
EOS you know, blocked off here but not per- quite as wide EOS they-
they looked bigger from the outside than they did EOS the front
bedroom was enormous, where **anon** and I had the front bedroom, and
that was a massive great big room EOS but then you’d got like erm,
smaller room at the back EOS but, it was- I mean, we were only young
then so I suppose they seemed EOS anyway to what I- I- they probably
were EOS no, but we loved erm, we loved it when we moved to Stretford,
it was the bees knees then EOS I remember getting lost though, I was
supposed to- cos we’d not moved schools at that point, and we were
still at **anon** EOS there at **anon** there and I was supposed to
wait for our **anon** to come and pick me up, I’ve probably told you
this story, I had to wait for our **anon** to bring me to the new
house EOS cause it was like from **anon** it’s a bus drive EOS when
you think of it now, it’s just like five EOS ten minutes down the road
but, to me it was like, you know, it was like EOS it was like an hours
journey EOS exactly, yeah so of course, I came out of school, and I’m
sat there on the wall thinking, ‘ooh, where is he’ course, when you’re
a kiddy, like, five minutes is an hour EOS so I’m thinking, ‘oh, he’s
not here, he’s not- he’s gone without me, where is he, where is he’ so
I’m wandering off to the shops, you know, on- on, erm EOS the main-
the main shops where I remembered I c- I can find me way to and I’m
thinking, right, I’ve got here, now what do I do’ I hadn’t a clue
where I was, I didn’t know where I’ve got to EOS I couldn’t- I didn’t
know how to get home, I knew where I lived, she’d given me the address
to write, put in me pocket EOS hadn’t a clue how to get there, so I go
in the shop, ‘I’m lost, I’m EOS ‘me brother’s not come for me’ EOS ‘I
don’t know where I am’, I’m crying me eyes out, this poor woman in
this shop being like ‘what’ EOS so of course, they phone up the
police, don’t they EOS so I get to go home in a police car EOS
shocking, shocking, no, it’s shocking no, I hadn’t a clue where I was
but I could tell him where I lived so, there we are EOS I’m in the
police car, taking me home get to the front door, and our **anon**
gets a right bollocking off me Mum EOS ‘why didn’t you wait for your
daughter st- your sister to come out of school?’, ‘I did, I did, I
did, she wasn’t there, I got there and she wasn’t there’, so funny EOS
so, no, we kinda both got told off EOS but he- it was c- shame, cos he
was only like, you know, he was only f- four years older than me EOS
cause that was it, I’d be only what, I’d be seven when I moved EOS so
really that’s a ch- it is still a child, isn’t it, seven, wandering
around the streets on your own EOS and he was, s- seven, eight, n- he
was only- he’d only be eleven, so he wasn’t much older EOS it’s a big
responsibility then for an eleven year old to try and get EOS it was
so funny, like, yeah, got, yeah, got sent home, so I- I always think
now that’s why I have a fear of getting lost EOS because I remember
being EOS in that place, not knowing where the heck I was, and it was-
is- it’s just a horrible feeling of just oh EOS where am I, you know,
I- I don’t know how to get from here to where I need to be, and I’m
still like that, if I’m in the car and I’m EOS driving and I take a
wrong turn I panic something terrible EOS I’ve cried before now when
I’ve come off the motorway at the wrong EOS where am I going, and I’m
crying me eyes out, cos I don’t know where EOS and I’ve to find meself
back on meself, scare meself to death EOS I’m useless, absolutely
useless EOS probably do yeah, well I- I do anyway, if I do go off the
beaten track, you do kind of- but I just EOS yeah, I just have this,
such a fear of having to go anywhere on my own and then not being able
to find meself where I need to go if I do EOS sort of take the wrong
turning, or EOS get on the wrong train, that f- that’s our **anon**
you see, when we went to Liverpool we got on the- we went- well, we
got to Liverpool, we were supposed to be going to Wales we got on the
EOS we were supposed to be going to Wales and we get on this train and
we end up in Liverpool so again, that was like, ‘oh God, where are we,
why are we here’ EOS **anon** at it, ‘don’t worry, don’t worry, we’ll
find our way, we’ll find our way’ EOS but it’s again, it’s like I’m in
the middle of this place thinking, ‘oh my God’ ‘well, what train do we
get now’ EOS you’re making up for it now you see there EOS yeah it was
really yeah, it- it was close EOS you didn’t even have to get a bus
really did you EOS again, that’s close isn’t it? where you lived, it
was always, yeah but then there wasn’t the the choice then was there,
you know what I mean EOS you didn’t have like, things like the
Trafford Centre or I mean, the- the- they hadn’t even got the Arndale,
they built that after we’d moved, it was still Kings Street with all
the little shops EOS so when they- yeah EOS must’ve been, yeah EOS oh
really, yeah, so EOS just, with your church EOS oh yeah, it was, in
them days, yeah, we used to go to- used to go to town, yeah, Christmas
EOS very miniature, for the ch- oh right, for the- oh, good grief EOS
and that was your grotto EOS erm, for about two weeks EOS I j- I just
thought it was really b- I think it must’ve been the brownies where we
were going to EOS it just wasn’t being run, I don’t think EOS as a
Brownie EOS yeah, it was terrible EOS I just thought, why am I coming
here, it’s- I’d go pff, I can’t remember now what- why, if you ask me
now EOS what- how it was boring, but I just remember going, and
thinking ‘right, that’s about it’ ‘I’ve given in two weeks’ EOS oh as
your group? what the hecks a ‘gillydoo’ EOS don’t know what that is
EOS oh dear, never mind EOS well you stuck it out anyway, longer than
me EOS he’s on- he’s always on the EOS on the look out, yeah, on the
catch EOS ooh, proper rolling one EOS yeah, I mean you’ve got the-
you’ve got the- you’ve got the canals I suppose and everything haven’t
we, but EOS the ship canal EOS yeah, it’s mainly the hi- and Trafford
Park’s got some history hasn’t EOS the de Trafford family, wasn’t it,
and Trafford Park EOS it was one of them, was it? oh, I didn’t know
that EOS the Beatles played EOS yeah, and they’re just going round the
towns and EOS doing little local gigs EOS ooh, I didn’t know that EOS
I think they’re not too bad on the whole I think in Urmston and
Stretford but I think EOS they’re down to earth but I think they- they
tend to keep themselves to themselves, it’s not like EOS in the old
days where you’d know everybody, and like on our street, they don’t
make an effort of coming over and just sort of ga- having a chat EOS
they might say, ‘oh, hiya’ and that’s about it EOS yeah, it’s harder
here isn’t it cos you’re on- on a corner and it’s- quite apart aren’t
you, quite wide apart EOS no we were all quite friendly, and like you
say, when- when the kids were littler and I was on the street more
tend to stop and have a chat, but now it’s just you get out of your
car and you go in your house, just, do you know what I mean, I suppose
it’s my fault anyway, not making an effort to go and speak to them as
well, but EOS yeah, a lot of them are the same people EOS oh, they’re
all grandparents now EOS yeah, the- yeah, most of them EOS not really,
no EOS yeah, you get an odd one, it- the- the one at the end’s been
three times now up for sale, and new people in it the very last one,
on the EOS that’s had quite a few people in it, erm, oh and next door
but three’s now gone, that one that’s been up for sale for ages,
that’s now sold and there’s new people in their now EOS so **anon**
moved out last weekend EOS and so there’s, new family in there now so,
I don’t know what they’re going to be like EOS they look like they’ve
got a young girl called **anon**, and they’ve got a dog EOS he looks
about our age I think EOS the guy, so EOS but there’s not many comings
and goings really EOS erm, so, yeah, we all kinda do know each other
but I think- I think next door because they’re Irish and because
they’re Irish and because they’re Irish, they seem to take- talk a lot
I think the Irish are very friendly people EOS they seem to do all the
ch- yeah, they just said- yeah- they chat- you see them outside
chatting EOS together more I think EOS but I can’t understand a word
they say EOS I just c- well I m- I mean I’ve lived next to **anon**
for like how many years, I mean for goodness sake, twent- twenty EOS
twenty odd years and still EOS if he talks to me I really have to
listen really carefully EOS I just cannot understand his l- now, his
wife **anon** plain as- plain EOS I can understand her, she’s, you
know, she just talks to me and- and there’s no problem but- but- but
**anon**, no chance EOS no, I really have to listen hard EOS and
carefully to when he’s talking to me EOS and they’re nice enough EOS
yeah, there’s not a l- a very good community sort of spirit, we’re
all- th- the neighbours are friendly enough, but no- nobody ever EOS
nobody ever does anything EOS yeah, yeah, everyb- yeah, and people-
that’s right, yeah, it gets a bit too much doesn’t it? yeah, just a
little bit more, just to get involved with something maybe in the li-
on the village EOS yeah, yeah, I don’t- yeah, I don’t get meself
involved with anything really EOS I suppose I should do really, that’s
me being extremely lazy EOS because you could still do that, you could
still- and go out and do something, yeah EOS but then it’s voluntary,
and you think I’m committed, and I have to keep doing it EOS whereas
when it was the kids, you just said, ‘oh, I’ll help out’ and y- it
was- it was EOS it was your perogative whether you said yes or no EOS
you could do it EOS that’s right, yeah EOS it wasn’t a twenty-four
seven day in, sort of, week in, week out EOS does he still do that? I
did, yeah, I th- I didn’t realise he was still doing that though EOS
oh, so is it one person he deals with at a time? so it’s for six weeks
EOS it’s a one-to-one for six sort of weeks EOS that’s right, yeah EOS
no, oh no