one, two, three, four, five EOS Right. That’s an interesting one. My
mum was born **anon**. My dad was born in **anon**, which is
Manchester. But his parents- er his father was from **anon**, and his
mother was from **anon**. Yeah, so my father was sent back to **anon**
when he was a boy. And he could speak **anon** fluently. Er, **anon**.
It was when he went back to **anon**. No to learn **anon**. So they
came back, I think me mum was nineteen. And it was before the days of
air travel. So they came on a boat. That’s where they would have
landed, no, but the family had moved to Manchester by then. It was me
Granddad who-. Yeah that was my Granddad, but then he came to
Manchester. Cos even in those days it was a little bit rough, I think,
in- in Liverpool . Yeah so he came to Manchester, and was first in
**anon**, before they moved to **anon**. And that sort of diagonal
side to Manchester really. Yeah, so what about your parents? Just- ju-
. It wasn’t a laundrette, a laundry EOS It was laundrettes what put
them out of business EOS Well she went to the same school as my elder
brothers and-. Well, me older brother and sisters. So they all knew
each other. Erm p- probably the first. There was another family
further into **anon**. but that was bit later. A little bit older than
**anon**. And I think your Auntie **anon** was a little bit younger
than **anon**. Well they all went to the same junior school. No right
channel EOS Yeah and **anon** did. Everything was okay then. No, this
is a good one for you. Did you move house at all when you were
younger? And what memories do you have of this? You moved a few times,
didn’t you? Yeah, you moved house three times didn’t you? Well I
thought there were somewhere before that. No but I thought- I though
there was somewhere before **anon**. Yeah it’s a history lesson as
well. So you won’t remember much. No, about the move I didn’t think
you’d-. That’s when you used to go caravanning, wasn’t it? They moved
when I was a baby and I don’t remember that. Well there was me and my-
my brother and sisters. Mum and dad, cos me dad’s-. Seven with mum and
dad. But because there’s a fourteen year gap between myself and my
brother, and then another two years between my sister **anon** and
another two years between my sister **anon** EOS they had sort of
grown up and moved out. While I was quite young. Er **anon** was at
university while I was about five or six. So they effectively had
moved out when I was quite young. So there was me and my younger
sister **anon**, mum and dad, my dad’s sister, Auntie **anon** and my
dad and my Auntie’s father, granddad, who lived there. And he was the
boss. Granddad was the boss. That’s right. And your Auntie **anon** I
think. Oh yeah, none the worse for it, oh definitely. yeah but we all
loved him to bits, and- But er- anything we wanted to do, or go
anywhere, we had to ask. You know I didn’t ask my dad, cos he’d say,
‘ask your granddad.’ EOS Yeah only- I only saw me dad coming in from
work in the morning, off his night shift, cos he worked permanent
nights for about twenty five EOS And he came home about eight o’clock
in the morning, had something to eat, went to bed, I’d go off to
school, come back, he’d be getting up and then off to work. only
really saw him at the weekends. I never saw my grandma. Yeah. That was
me dad’s mother. But I- I saw a lot of me mum’s EOS who lived a few
streets away. No, no, no she came home. No I don’t know how she
managed it, but she managed to get her over to England in the-
probably the nineteen sixties. And she was quite elderly when she came
over. So didn’t speak very much English. But still managed to get to
the shops when she could, while she was mobile enough and able to-.
While she was able to get to the shops and buy a few things. Fun,
round here? I know it’s no corner shop but- Yeah we’ve used all the
sports centres, the swimming baths. Maybe not- not public transport as
much as we should have done. Yeah they played for local football
teams, local swimming club. So there is plenty to do, if you want, if
you look for it EOS Yeah it’s- it’s very EOS It’s only a few minutes
from Manchester. Traffic’s never too bad. Apart from a few days near
Christmas. But generally, getting into Manchester’s quite easy, yeah
EOS If you can get in. Not generally, don’t think I’ve- So what about
school? about your memories of school? They were bullied by the
teachers or the pupils? It was like half a pint wasn’t it? Did you-
did you drink it? Oh I- I used to hate it. ahh, but it was warm and
horrible EOS I used to give mine away. It was alright in the winter,
but in the summer it was just-. Oh they’d never get away with that now
would they? Cos you knew which side your bread was buttered didn’t
you? Well my school was called **anon**. Which is the school your-
your mum went to, and your Auntie **anon**. Er, it was church of
England erm, juniors and infant school. But prior to me going, it was
also a secondary school. For- for kids up to the age of fourteen I
think, in those days. Er but that stopped when my secondary school,
which was **anon** opened EOS That’s when you were born. And I w- I
started there in nineteen sixty seven, I think. Yeah, and it’s now
being demolished. because it’s built on the edge of Barton Moss, which
is like boggy and peaty. And it was sinking EOS And it was built in
the early sixties and not very well built. And a lot of the erm the
walls had been kicked in at times EOS it was okay when I was there,
but apparently years later it was really tatty, so it’s being
demolished and it’s now **anon**. Very er- But the estate it’s on has
got a lot rougher since- since I was there. And it’s so bad buses
won’t go on the estate at night now. And at one time it was a really
nice-. Sort of showpiece council estate. yeah, but- yeah but I was
quite happy there but it wasn’t a very academic school, and in the old
system of CSEs, it’s before GCSEs. We all did the CSE course EOS and
if they thought you were good enough, you did a little bit of extra
work to get you through the O-level. But it was only really designed
to scrape through EOS Which I found out when I came to do A-levels and
it was, ‘whoah!’ EOS Yeah, massive leap cos I’d only really done CSE.
So yeah then A-levels were a big- big jump. Yeah, so that was the big
difference between- say the grammar schools now and -. yeah and with
the eleven plus they do round here, at least if you go to **anon**,
you’re still doing the same course. As the people at the grammar, so
if you apply yourself, and stay clear of the ones who don’t want to
work, there’s no reason why you shouldn’t do well. No, not at all
really. And the junior school I went to erm, didn’t do any practice
papers for the eleven plus, which I know they don’t do now, but erm-.
Parents are aware of practice papers and things. But in those days,
some schools did practice papers and- and half the class would pass.
And like, ‘what? What’s that?’ EOS Well one person passed. One person
passed in my class. No right channel EOS And she’s now a top barrister
in London. So that’s how clever you had to be. Right channel resumes)
EOS But their parents owned-. Yeah their parents owned **anon** at the
time. Cos they sold parker pens. Er they probably came on the bus.
There used to be the number twenty two. cos they lived near **anon**.
And the bus used to go from **anon**. Yeah they do now. But there w-
there was a lot- it was fifty-fifty, those who went to EOS it was
fifty-fifty, if you went to **anon** or **anon**. But it always
annoyed me because this **anon**, it was always me or her who were
top. Yeah. And then-. Yeah that was what I was saying, her mum and dad
had this posh paper shop and they- they probably knew about practice
papers and things. the good old days, yeah. yeah, because me, her and
three other girls skipped a class between the infants and the juniors,
we didn’t go in to what is now year EOS We went into year four. They
used to- used to- they used to do daft things like that, like, ‘oh
you’re clever enough to go into year four, you don’t need to- you EOS
Yeah, when you learn your tables and things like that. But that’s what
they used to do. And even though we weren’t at the bottom of that
class-. We were somewhere near the top, but not at the top. And it was
weird, you know, splitting us up from all our friends, and then you
make new friends and-. and, that’s how I got to EOS Who I used to go-
I used to go to the match with. Cos he was in that year above, yeah.
Yeah, and I think it’s because of that. Yeah well it probably started
off-. knowing **anon** and a few others. Then we went to the same
secondary school so I- I was back in my proper year. A lot of me
friends were in the year above, but I was still friends with- I was
still friends with kids in my year. So I was friends with both. And
then I go to know others. In the year above, like **anon**. People
like that. And then h- with the other people, I think you’re probably
thinking of **anon** and people like that. Who’s like three years
older than me. But all that came about through volleyball. Which we
used to play at our school, because- cos our maths teacher played for
England, at volleyball, so we were the only school who could play it
properly. Us and **anon** and **anon** and we used to play them. So
that’s how I got to know people like **anon**, **anon** who went to
**anon**. And **anon** who went to **anon**. And when we all- when we
all left school we all got a team together. So we were quite a
different you know erm, wide ranging age group. And pretty much kept
in touch up until the last few years, when we’ve got married and had
kids and-. Yeah if there’d been things like facebook you know like
fifteen years EOS It would’ve been a lot easier. Yeah and mobile
phones, and texting. Cos it used to be having to rely on letters
didn’t it, and- An expensive phone call, if they were abroad. Well I
think where they are in Vancouver, it’s on the edge of the EOS And
it’s supposed to be really, really nice. It’s- It’s **anon** uncle,
actually. Yeah now there’s a story. It’s all the macdonald’s, kfc
isn’t it? Pizza hut. But it’s lazy people who dri- go to the drive
through isn’t it, and they just eat their food. And they’re too lazy
to get out aren’t they? And I- and I can’t understand why whole
families eat in the car, when they can go inside. Well it’s- it’s like
that at Disneyland isn’t it? everywhere scooping litter up. Well I
think Canada’s got a smaller population than Britain. yeah, and it’s-
I think it’s the second largest country in the world, isn’t it? Yeah.
Well this question here’s just reminded me of something. Did you ever
get into trouble for something at school, were you ever blamed for
something that wasn’t your fault? Well I was blamed for EOS It was at
lunchtime, and then you c- you could go home for your lunch if you
wanted, or you could stay at school and I went through periods of
doing both. So it was o- on one of my supposed-to-be going home for
lunch EOS When we used to go to the chippy. We went to the chippy and
just for something to do we walked round the estate got onto the
school fields in the far corner. There was a gate there, it wasn’t a
problem, walked across the school fields, back to school and the
headmaster was wait- waiting for us. And it was, ‘you boys! You’ve all
been smoking!’ EOS ‘No we’re not!’, ‘Yep you’ve all been smoking,
there’s no other reason to be on the fields at lunchtime.’ EOS So we
all got the slipper. Cos he was a real bully. So when my dad found
out-. No you kept your trousers on! It’s not ‘Tom Brown’s schooldays’
or whatever EOS Yeah the nineteen sixties, not the eighteen sixties!
So er- my dad went bananas. Rang the school up and-. No I think my
granddad might have died by then. But my dad rang up and said, ‘if- if
the- if our Bruce **anon** wants to smoke, he can smoke, he’s got my
permission.’ EOS Yeah. Cos me dad was heavy smoker and it- it wasn’t
a. , ‘oh well, that’s alright, ah, thanks, I’ve got the option EOS No,
tried a few but didn’t like them. It was **anon** mentioned it. Yeah
you’d have thought he might have had something against you as well,
being **anon** sister. So hence, your spelling’s quite good! Etched
into the er- . Yeah that’s the trouble isn’t it at infants and
juniors, you’re just stuck with the same teacher for a year. And
they’re stuck with you if- if they feel the same, Oh yes they always
had a tweed jacket. A bit portly. He sounds just like **anon** who we
had at **anon**. Who your Auntie **anon** remembers, he was er- our
equivalent. He had a choice of slipper, it was pu- it was pumps,
slippers, there was a few EOS Yeah he used to run the tuckshop, and it
was behind him, in his little room behind him and he was- he was
supposed to be teaching and he was just tucking in to Jammy Dodgers
and things like that, yeah. Well he was- but then he left and went to-
after I left, he went to **anon** school in Swinton. No **anon**
Junior school. but I think he’s lived round here somewhere,
apparently. Yeah don’t know if he’s still alive, he must be well into
his eighties or nineties now. But yeah. Definitely old school.
Wouldn’t be you, would it? There is- there is no friendly kind of way.
Bit posh that! Because they were wood. Better be careful hadn’t I? Oh
so that’s why we got one is it?