 count to five EOS one, two, three, four, five EOS one, two, three,
four, five EOS okay, whenever you’re ready EOS cool, right, go on EOS
I don’t need a pen EOS what is your best or funniest memory from when
you were young? erm, don’t even know, I can’t even remember being
young EOS no, neither can I EOS erm young do you remember our Science
lessons, they were well good EOS yeah, I love Science, mm EOS fun,
fun, fun EOS ah glad we don’t go school anymore though EOS I know, I
was talking to **anon** the other day about erm, **anon** and how she
used to send everyone to the unit EOS doesn’t it feel weird saying
that? **anon** EOS isn’t it, I said **anon**- I saw **anon** and it
felt well weird saying **anon** the other day EOS no, it were- we
weren’t in Wetherspoons, was with **anon** and they were walking past
the pub that I was in, can’t remember which pub it EOS oh right, I
think he works at Wetherspoons, cos I went in there and he ID’d me,
and I was like, ‘I was in your year at school’ EOS I was just like,
‘hiya **anon**’ EOS yeah, it’s well weird seeing some- and **anon** mm
EOS yeah, I saw him yesterday I was like, ‘hi’, and like, ‘you work
here?’ and then **anon** told me like, **anon** EOS good who was your
favourite teacher at school? don’t think I had one EOS yeah, that
makes sense EOS **anon** was pretty good though, he was funny **anon**
EOS oh, do you remember woodwork do you remember doing woodwork EOS
problem rubbish at woodwork EOS mine were always shocking EOS I
remember I made one for my Dad, you know that frame, with a flower EOS
I didn’t do that EOS for valentine’s day EOS we didn’t do that EOS I
don’t know why I made it my Dad EOS it’s a bit weird that, now that I
think about it, it’s a bit weird yeah, and now I don’t know where it
is but, I made EOS I’ve still got some of my stuff EOS I made a plane
EOS I’ve got my plane, painted it pink EOS but I don’t know where it’s
gone EOS mines at m- my house EOS I think it’s like, left it in the
old house EOS oh, I’ll have to show you actually when you come round
to my house EOS what, your plane? I still got it, and there’s a little
box thing that I made, it was EOS money box? Yeah EOS no it was just a
normal box and with a lid EOS oh, we made a money box EOS and like,
it’s not like even sort of thing, it’s a bit wonky EOS and painted
that was painted mostly pink as well, don’t know EOS I remember making
the bird feeders and th- you never put the thing on it EOS and we
never got it back, so, I was a bit gutted at the time EOS I’m sure I
did, cos I’m sure I put nuts in it EOS you probably did, I- I was
gutted that I didn’t get it back EOS yeah, he’s alright EOS he’s
growing up, really, really quick EOS I can’t believe he’s one one EOS
is that your brother? he’s so cute EOS aww, he’s gorgeous EOS we’re
walking round Trafford Centre, erm, and my sister was trying to get
some trainers or something, so me and **anon** are walking round
Trafford Centre and some of the looks we were getting, like we were
EOS which reminds me right, on Saturday, I was at **anon** Granddad’s
club and I was with this little kid, babysitting sort of thing while
person was working behind the bar, so I sat there with it, and some of
the looks I was getting as well then EOS like it was my kid, **anon**
sat next to me, well funny EOS aww, I used to like that EOS in a weird
way EOS go like, ‘oh yeah, this is mine’ EOS yeah, when the babies are
right there it sort of does make you want a kid but then EOS but then
after that, there was this little kid- you like giving them back
though EOS there was this little kid, and bloody screaming I thought,
‘yep, that makes you not want a kid’ EOS they are cute though EOS
makes me laugh ahh, we went to Gap, we went erm, on Saturday, went and
took **anon** round, aww I took my boyfriend round to see my family
and then, you know them lanterns we like, tried to light one of them
lanterns EOS oh, it was the most embarrassing thing EOS and it just-
you know the bit, the square bit what you light, it just fell off, I
was like, ‘this is not good’ EOS like, patting it out on the grass, I
was like, oops EOS and then we lit- finally lit one, and it like flew
off, and then it was like stuck in a tree EOS we was like, ‘oh my God,
it’s gonna set the tree on fire’ EOS ‘it’s gonna set the tree on fire’
but then, it like flew off and we was like- my Granddad was stood
there going, ‘I’m not happy about this, I’m not happy about this, it’s
gonna set next door on fire’ EOS I was like, ‘Granddad, chill out,
it’ll blow away soon’ EOS it was so funny oh it was funny EOS did they
like your boyfriend? they was, ahh they didn’t really see him cos I
was like, ‘no, we’ll go and sit in this room’ EOS ‘I don’t really
wanna sit with all them’, cos they wouldn’t stop EOS you know what
they’re like EOS was **anon** there? no, she said she was gonna be cos
she didn’t- w- she said I think she was alright going round to
**anon** or something EOS then she was like, ‘I don’t really fancy
going out’ I was like, ‘ooh, go round to Gran’s, I’ll be there at
about eight’ she’s like, ‘right, okay, I’ll see you there then’, and
she just didn’t turn up, I was EOS so I was sat there with **anon**
with all the kids EOS was- it was great EOS proper getting terrored
though ooh, they just bully me all the EOS yeah, they’re just like,
‘oh, he seems lovely’, I was like, ‘he is’ EOS they always say that
don’t they EOS everyone loves my boyfriend EOS more than me probably
EOS been nearly three years EOS that’s a long time that isn’t it? gone
quick though EOS look at them dogs EOS ahh, that’s just mean EOS
imagine walking that down the road? would be embarrassing you’d be
like, ‘it’s not mine’ EOS ‘I’m just walking it’ EOS can imagine the
owner having that colour hair as well couldn’t you? dressed to match
EOS oh it’s hard talking when you don’t really kn- like EOS it is
under pressure EOS I can’t think of anything to say EOS try one of
them I always think I don’t like they’re- they’re alright EOS did you
ever do anything after school? apart from that not really EOS no,
neither did I, I don’t think EOS I think- no, I thi- actually I think
I joined the rounders team, I was pretty good at rounders, was quite-
the only thing I was good at EOS yeah, I didn’t like PE, I only liked
it when we started going to the EOS I know, and you didn’t really do
anything, you just stood in the gym going, ‘hm, champ’ EOS me and you
are just stood there like this EOS on the- on the running machine, and
you’re just having a stroll EOS we were just there talking weren’t we
EOS it was good EOS go to the gym now though actually take it serious
EOS I don’t, I just don’t- I just don’t do exercise, it’s not really
for me I don’t think EOS did you ever do drama? I’d hate it EOS
neither did I, right but everyone’s got like a lesson now, full of
drama, like just for drama EOS what, in like year seven and
everything? cos **anon** was like, ‘oh yeah, we was in drama the other
day’ I was like, ‘you had drama?’ cos we didn’t have it EOS I think
it’s cos it’s an arts and thingy college EOS at erm, school, isn’t it
EOS I was like, ‘oh, I would’ve liked drama’ EOS what you liked it or
didn’t? no, I would of, yeah EOS quite good at acting I think EOS hate
these adverts EOS you know, right, on the first day, I remember Mum
walks me and **anon** to the bus stop, then stood there until the bus
came, it was so EOS and then she like asked one of the year elevens,
she was like, ‘oh, will you take care of these and make sure they get
to school alright’ I was like, fucks sake, ‘Mum, this is so
embarassing’ EOS that’s just reminded me of something that, on my
first day, I got my sister to do my tie, cos y- y- you didn’t have it
the right way, did EOS no, you had it the wrong way EOS you had that
little, small bit there EOS so now I did that, got to form, had
**anon**, do you remember **anon**? she bloody made us blooming undo
it EOS I didn’t know how to do a bloody tie neither EOS so I was
there, undone this tie, and I’m thinking, ‘how do you do EOS just tie
it in a knot EOS too- t- t- took me ages to figure out- get used to
doing it EOS we used to, right, you know when, like, year seven you
had them little tiny ones then year eleven you got them big huge ones
EOS yeah, but it was dead small like EOS oh God don’t know what we was
thinking EOS I know, just as we come they got the blazers as well EOS
we had blazers EOS no, that’s what I mean, just as we got there,
that’s when they got EOS cos my sister didn’t have to have one until
we started coming, our year, they just brought them in EOS I quite
like my blazer, I’m not gonna lie EOS it had places to put things EOS
I looked pretty good in it EOS it was horrible in summer though when
they made you wear your jumper EOS and your blazer EOS and you had to
ask to take it off EOS it was horrible you couldn’t just take it off,
no EOS you’re really hot though EOS I know, it was horrible, like on
the- we were allowed to on the yard EOS it was stupid yeah, but like,
in classrooms though it’s always warmer isn’t it EOS but they’re not
exactly gonna say no are they well, they can’t EOS so I don’t know why
you had to ask EOS I know ‘no, you can’t’ EOS ‘keep it on’ EOS you’re
still gonna take it off EOS I’m going to anyway, so EOS remember
getting the cream eggs actually at Easter EOS I remember when **anon**
made me cry EOS ah, that was horrible, cos like, I’d had a really bad
morning, you know like with my Mum and stuff EOS and then I went in,
and I was wearing a leather jacket, and I was thinking, ‘ahh’, and I
saw her walking down the corridor towards me, I was like, ‘oh my God,
she’s gonna say something’ EOS it’s cos you had to wear a black coat
EOS and I was stood there, and I was like, and she was like, going at
me in my face, and I was like, ‘uhh, shut up’, and then I just cried,
I was like, ‘ahh’ EOS how embarra- I hate that EOS it was horrible she
went, ‘right, take- ta- take your jacket off’, I went, ‘it’s raining
outside’, she went, ‘I don’t care, take your jacket off’, I was like
EOS and them white socks EOS you know when you’re wearing pants white
socks EOS cause like but, why would you wear white socks? they look
ridiculous EOS but everyone used to just wear black socks anyway, and
in EOS year eleven we were allowed to weren’t we? but why would you
have to wear white socks? I don’t know, she went EOS it’s alright with
a skirt, because EOS it looks alright, but EOS it looks alright, but,
ahh, it’s like EOS pants, black, white, black EOS Michael Jackson
style EOS yeah used to get told off for it all the time black socks
looked nice though EOS was really strict actually if you think about
it EOS do you remember? cos they used to pick at anything didn’t they
EOS ‘don’t do this, don’t do that’ EOS **anon** do you remember, cos
you used to roll your skirt up didn’t EOS si- so it’s not like, down
below your knee EOS and she stopped me and **anon** in the hall, and
she was like, ‘right, girls, have you got your skirts rolled up?’ I
was like, ‘no, it just won’t go past my hip’ like, she was like,
‘that’s clearly a lie’, I was like, ‘okay’ EOS and she was like,
‘right, lift your s- lift your shirts up, I wanna see your skirts’ EOS
I was like EOS and then we’d walk past and she’d make us do our ties,
have our skirts long, ah, it was so embarrassing, and you’d walk down
the corridor and you’d be like, roll it back up EOS remember when they
used to make you tuck your shirts in as EOS mm oh God, wouldn’t mind
it with pants though, just looked silly with a skirt EOS normally had
a jumper on over it so you couldn’t tell anyway EOS so they didn’t
normally notice, unless it was like, hanging out EOS tuck it under
your jumper EOS see they’re the things I don’t miss about school EOS
I’m not gonna lie, I quite liked school uniform, cos it was green EOS
but that’s only cos it’s like my favourite colour EOS I like wanted a
green car but EOS the only one I could get was blue EOS you can paint
it, paint it EOS my Dad, the other day came round and he’s got a green
car, I was EOS ‘oh right, you couldn’t find me a green car, but you
could get yourself a green car’ EOS yeah, I went, ‘can we swap’, he
went, ‘Claudia **anon**, the insurance on this is gonna be sky high’,
I was like, I know I need a car EOS sky high already EOS I need a job
first actually EOS passed in December and no car still EOS I don’t
know what I’d do now if I didn’t have a car EOS that’s the thing EOS
they’re horrible, cos I don’t walk anywhere, ever EOS it’s like that
with **anon** though, because I always get lifts everywhere so th-
that time when his car weren’t working, it was EOS just like not
having your car for a week EOS I don’t know what I’d do, I’d probably
just sit in the house all the EOS ah, I can’t believe I dreamt that
you said that you were getting the EOS yeah, I had to check my
messages EOS in my dream I read a text saying, ‘I’m just leaving a bit
earlier cos I’m getting the bus down’ so I was think- I remember
thinking, ‘oh, what’s wrong with her car then?’ EOS and I had to look
and I think it- it weren’t there EOS she got in the car and I went,
‘Erin **anon**, do you even know me?’, the last time I got the bus was
EOS well that’s what I thought was weird EOS funny I can’t decide
whether I like him or not EOS hmm not watched- I need to catch up on
corrie actually went to Ibiza EOS so I’ve missed everything EOS how
was it? It was good actually EOS did you go with friends? oh, very
nice EOS Claudia’s **anon** going away in October aren’t you? with my
Mum EOS and my Gran and my Granddad EOS I know, Mum was like- so
you’re not going clubbing? my Mum- Mum was like, ‘are you ready to hit
the town with me’ I was EOS then me Aunty yesterday she was like,
‘what if your Mum pulled’, I was like, ‘that’s what I want’ EOS so, I
went, ‘I’m not even going out with her’ EOS ‘what if she pulled?’ EOS
ah, that’s horrible that EOS couldn’t even imagine it EOS I don’t want
to EOS ahh she’s dead excited though don’t know why, she was like,
‘ahh, it’s gonna be a holiday with just us’, I was like, ‘yeah’ EOS it
will be nice EOS yeah, it should be alright, wouldn’t really do
anything EOS sit by the pool, relax EOS better than being over here
anyway EOS in the rain EOS God, it’s horrible EOS will be in October
anyway EOS Mum and Dad go away the same time as she goes away EOS ahh,
you’re gonna be lonely EOS I know ahh, well you’ll just have to drink
on your own again EOS can’t wait for Christmas, can’t wait for Chris-
it’s nearly Christmas EOS it’s like four months away EOS it is
actually, cos it is the eighth month isn’t it, I didn’t know it was
that close actually EOS my cousin told me, he went, what did he say?
He said there’s something like hundred and thirty three days or
something, I was like EOS it’s a bit- bit precise there EOS not been
counting down or anything EOS I’m not really that excited for
Christmas anymore EOS I don’t know EOS I’m still like a little kid at
Christmas, wake up dead early EOS like, last year was a bit of a let
down EOS I don’t even know what I got, what did you get? I don’t know
why I even know what I get anymore EOS oh, I don’t know either EOS
ooh, I wanna know what I got now, I can’t think EOS what did you get
for Christmas EOS erm, a Nintendo DS actually EOS I know, I’ve- and
I’ve used it like twice EOS I hate that, I was like, ‘**anon**, do you
wanna buy this off me’ EOS he was like, ‘no, I’ve only g- I’ve got my
own’, I was like, ‘oh’ EOS alright, ebay it is EOS turn the light on,
it’s getting dark EOS I was talking to **anon** last night, I was
like, ‘got any gossip about **anon** from school?’ it- she was like,
‘not really’, I was like, ‘how can you not have gossip about someone’
EOS I wonder what **anon** actually like in school EOS I remember you
telling me that he got kicked out of that other school EOS got kicked
out of **anon** didn’t he EOS erm, long story, basically he set a bin
on fire and then EOS and then apparently he tried to put it out with
deodorant, I was EOS ‘what an idiot’ EOS you’re not- right- he’s not
stupid is he? clearly know that it’s gonna make the fire worse EOS
what was it one of the inside ones? I think so, and that’s even worse,
cos like could’ve set the whole classroom on fire EOS I was like,
‘what- what are you even thinking when you do this stuff?’ he was
like, ‘I don’t know, I just do it’, I was like, he’s meant to be the
brainy one as well EOS yeah he- but he keeps saying, ‘other people
were with me’, and I was like, ‘well, why didn’t you say that?’ he
went, ‘cos I didn’t wanna tell- tell off anyone’, I was like,
‘probably wouldn’t have got kicked out then if it was other people’
EOS a group effort, yeah EOS mm but I don’t- I don’t think he’s
bothered really cos he’s got like loads of friends now, cos they are,
cos obviously, the people from **anon** live in **anon** EOS so, now
he goes to the one **anon** he’s got all his mates in EOS so, it’s
pretty good and he’s always out now, so like EOS got the house to
myself in the day, when he’s off, and it’s like- I love having the
house to myself EOS I know boring though EOS I’m glad my sister’s
moved out actually EOS she moved out at Christmas EOS Mum keeps
telling me to move out, she’s like, ‘so when are you gonna get a full
time job’ EOS ‘when are you moving out?’, ‘Mum, I don’t know’, ‘you
need to think about it don’t you’, I was like EOS ‘stop pushing me’
EOS oh God do you remember him, on that magic show? What was it
called? yeah tricky TV- tricky TV, yeah, it’s sad that I know that EOS
it is a little bit sad, a little bit sad EOS do you remember Art
Attack? That was good EOS oh, yeah which one was that one that died?
Was he out of Art Attack? Or Smart? Was it Smart? Oh EOS I used to
love watching all them programmes EOS what did you do in your summer
holidays like, in school? erm, like now? no, in school EOS oh, in
school EOS I dunno, bit far away to remember EOS you know where
**anon** is, you know she’s got that big field outside EOS we used to
sit on there in the summer, like, just sit there EOS I can’t even
remember what we used to do, we used to just sit there, and you know
when you used to play music on your phone EOS used to go out with
**anon** was **anon** and **anon** and all that go out with us EOS who
else, someone else did as well can’t remember EOS ah, I remember the
first Friday that I got drunk on the park EOS it wasn’t very nice
actually, it was quite scary EOS cause like everyone else was out
wasn’t they, and it’s like, mm, okay, so we just went and sat on my
friends grass outside her EOS and then my friend, you know **anon**
EOS I think that’s what he’s called EOS yeah he like jumped on the
cars and like ran across them EOS we was like, ‘oh my God you can’t do
that’ EOS oh my God, I was like, I didn’t know what to do, I was like,
‘**anon** probably should get down’ but yeah, and then I think it- I
think it was **anon** who got beat up that night EOS I think I
remember him coming into school actually EOS saying that he was beat
up EOS or summet on them lines EOS and him and **anon** and **anon**
mm, they got together, but like, didn’t really get together EOS I know
it was weird EOS they like kissed and everything and then, just
nothing, I was EOS God, I remember that EOS it was alright, cos they
both liked each other, you could proper tell but then nothing EOS
remember when **anon** and **anon** were together actually EOS and
they went into a bush t- just to kiss EOS bloody hell you look back
now and you’re like, what the hell EOS I know, mm, in a bush EOS I
thought you was gonna say summet else then EOS at least United won
yesterday anyway I weren’t paying much attention to the match EOS I
don’t know EOS I was just drinking EOS did you go to the pub to watch
it? yeah, drinking from twelve ‘til like nine EOS oh no, headache
today EOS I got very drunk, no, I don’t get hangovers to be honest but
EOS she’s lucky all the time EOS I’ve not stopped drinking f- since
I’ve back- been back off holiday, I come back on f- was it EOS Friday
morning so, went for ten days and I’ve not stopped EOS this is me
first day that I’m not having a drink EOS it’s cos you’ve got none
left EOS b- I have, I have, I’ve not drank any at- th- that was all
spent at EOS ah, I’ve still got that vodka at home, got a litre bottle
of vodka, ten ninety five euro EOS it’s good that isn’t it EOS I think
it’s like eighteen in Tesco EOS was that duty free? so I- I thought,
‘right, I’ll get that’ EOS went round on Friday, I thought, ‘I’ll have
a bit, ‘go on, I’ll share’ EOS did, didn’t we went- went to Trafford
Centre, then went to Asda, had to carry all the bags, through- back to
the Trafford Centre EOS she went, ‘it’s alright, we’ll walk to Asda
from Selfridges’, right, and then when we - and then we got there, it
was like, ‘we’re gonna have to carry all these bags through the
Trafford Centre back to the car’ EOS I forgot that we weren’t at-
parked at Asda as well until like we just got hold of the bags, I
thought, ‘oh, we’ve gotta walk through EOS cause I was like walking to
the car, and she went, ‘Claudia **anon** where you going? We’re going
Selfridges’, I was like, ‘what do you mean, I’m gonna get my car, to
drive to Asda’, she went, ‘no, we’ll walk, we’ll walk’ EOS we both
didn’t know where we were going, I was gonna walk out a blooming
different exit, weren’t I EOS to try and get to Asda EOS and it’s
through Selfridges EOS yeah, it’s further than you think as well,
isn’t it EOS yeah and then I think- and we had to find which way it
was, cos it- we were parked, was it at John Lewis? I know we always
get mixed up between EOS like Debenhams and John Lewis EOS you can see
us walking all the way to Debenhams and thinking EOS it’s at the other
end EOS it’s the other end EOS Peter Andre makes me laugh EOS ah, I
wish he was my Dad EOS I want Celebrity Juice to come back on actually
EOS is that not back on next month, I’m sure it’s September it comes
back EOS I don’t know EOS makes me laugh though Inbetweeners is out on
the seventeenth, I’m so excited EOS I can’t wait to watch that EOS the
trailers look good don’t they EOS yeah, have you seen the bit where
Neil’s dancing in that club? doing the robot? oh my God, it’s so funny
EOS well the only bloody trailer I’ve seen, which was a while ago now,
cos I remember looking on youtube was where they’re just bloody
walking through a town, weren’t the greatest trailer EOS oh yeah, I’ve
seen that EOS just watching them walk, I was thinking, ‘this is a
great time to advertise a film’ you know, if someone’s not seen it EOS
ah, I’ve seen loads of different ones, like- oh, I’m gonna have to
search it now EOS where he squirts aftershave down his pants and then
screams, yeah EOS I can imagine that’d hurt EOS yeah, we went to
Thorpe Park on Friday and it just reminded me of EOS where he’s got-
he’s carrying the door around with him EOS ah, you should paint your
door a different colour EOS yeah, you should EOS cause there’s just
one door isn’t there that’s different EOS ahh, I don’t understand why
he carries it round with him EOS why doesn’t he just like, leave it on
the car, it’s not gonna make a difference whether he’s still got it or
not EOS and no-one’s really gonna steal a door EOS you never know EOS
someone’d steal the car, cos it’s not got a door EOS can’t believe
I’ve come back to Manchester and it’s horrible, was nice while I was
away EOS well, come back and it’s horrible again EOS I even got a
suntan, I was like, ahh, come on suntan EOS just, and then I thought,
I’m gonna have to top it up with fake tan EOS oh, do you remember them
EOS when you used to go to like Wacky Warehouse or something, and big
ball pools and stuff EOS ball pits, ahh EOS you went down the slide
and went straight into EOS I’d always be scared of going in there you
know, cos kids are in there, and they EOS like could poo and EOS I
never thought about that EOS I thought you were gonna say kids hiding
EOS no, I’m not even bothered about, ooh, imagine like eurgh, an EOS
in the ball pit EOS Claudia **anon** y- no, have you seen, ah, do you
watch the Big Bang Theory? Oh, it’s so funny that, have you seen the
one where Sheldon goes in the ball pit, oh it’s so funny, and he’s
like going down, and then Leonard’s trying to catch him and he pops up
and he goes, ‘the zinger’ EOS so funny, oh, I love Sheldon makes me
laugh EOS don’t even know what they’re doing in there EOS having fun
in a ball pit EOS proper fancy McDonalds EOS you had it the other day
didn’t you actually? Oh no, you didn’t EOS no, I had Chin- you had
that Chinese didn’t you, I forgot EOS oh my God, went Trafford Centre,
had a Chinese, and it was so spicy EOS my mouth was on fire EOS oh it
re- I was sat there with every mouthful just going EOS was really nice
though EOS you still ate it EOS I actually ate all of it you know EOS
got to really EOS is it expensive? it was five ninety-nine EOS six
pound and- it weren’t too bad EOS did you eat all them peanuts you
got? no, I took them back right, I don’t know why, I was craving
peanuts EOS it’s a weird thing, and I ate about four, and then I
thought, I don’t even want them anymore EOS so then I took them round
to my Gran’s seventieth, and I was like, ‘I’ve got some peanuts here’,
she was like, ‘ooh, put some in bowls’, I was like, ‘alright’ EOS ah
knew I should’ve got the small bag EOS it was a huge bag, it was like
this big EOS you’re like, there’s not- there’s- there’s not enough in
this one EOS it was huge though that bag EOS you know they don’t do
chocolate erm, peanuts in Asda EOS they do or don’t EOS I know, I w-
that’s what I was looking for, I was like, cos I wanted some chocolate
ones, you know, cos they’re nice EOS and didn’t have any EOS there was
none EOS I was like, ‘oh’, gutted EOS little bit erm EOS I was talking
to **anon** about the toilets in school EOS do you remember when
everyone used to go in and smoke in them EOS yep, th- the ones were
worse near- round that other side EOS where they always played
football, can’t think of where it was EOS it’s like, do you remember
**anon** used to bring- used to bring a toilet roll into school? I
don’t remember this EOS cos he used to always have a poo EOS in
school, I was like, ‘ooh, that’s nasty’ EOS was it **anon** had that
rumour EOS don’t know if it is true EOS some lad poo- did he poo
himself? used his boxers as well to wipe EOS ah, that’s disgusting EOS
apparently it was all over the toilet seat and everything EOS ah that-
ah that’d be so embarrassing EOS ew do you remember **anon** EOS ah,
the Art teacher? took everyone’s chocolate and food and EOS and then
didn’t give it them back EOS cause he was- was he diabetic or
something? and he used to say that he needed like, chocolate so EOS
someone came in with a bar of chocolate, he’d be like, ‘you’re not
allowed to eat that in here’ so he’d take it off them EOS and eat it
himself EOS and then eat it himself, and it’s like, ‘didn’t pay for
that or EOS didn’t give him money, didn’t give him money or anything,
just took it off him EOS I know God I seen him the other day actually
EOS yeah where did I see him? think it was Trafford Centre didn’t know
who he was EOS I used to love tomato ketchup actually EOS did you ?
don’t worry, it was the advert EOS anyone listening to this is gonna
think I’m really random EOS don’t like it no more though EOS I dunno,
I think it- I might- must’ve had it too much when I was EOS and gone
off it EOS I am really fussy EOS what do you not like? in high school
she used to have jam butties every single day EOS I just don’t like
anything on my sandwich, do I? and now I just have bread and butter
cos there’s too much sugar in EOS well that’s when I go to- when I
went college and stuff EOS ahh, them paninis in college, they were
nice should’ve tried one, they were nice EOS don’t think I would’ve
liked them EOS ham and cheese panini EOS mm, could- oh, I could eat
one of them now EOS ahh, why don’t you go college and get one EOS not
that it’s gonna be open but still EOS get one when we go and get r-
our results next Thursday EOS oh God, yeah EOS it’s so close EOS how
do you feel? I haven’t got a clue EOS I don’t think I’ve failed any
EOS but I don’t think I dunno don’t think I’ve done really badly just
not great EOS it’s hard though, isn’t it EOS are you nervous? yeah I
don’t wanna go in EOS and see all my teachers though EOS cause they’ll
be like, ‘oh what did you get, what did you get’ and I’m like, ‘an E’
EOS they’ll just be like, ‘oh’ EOS it’s annoy- it’s annoying though
when people get good grades and they’re like, ‘this is really
shocking’ EOS you know when like, say they get a B or an A or like, C
or summet, and they’re like, ‘oh, this is rubbish this’, and it’s
like, it’s not EOS it’s be- no, it’s not EOS mm it’s better than E,
let’s put it that way EOS but if you wanna go Uni and stuff it is
important, isn’t it? aye, I need two B’s and a C to get in Uni EOS
hopefully I will EOS well, I can’t wait for everyone’s fresher’s week
EOS just gonna, go around EOS I know I can’t, but I don’t if it’s
before the like, actually Uni starts, I want my money EOS but they’re
not gonna give me my money, are they? don’t know actually EOS what’s
that for, your loan? it comes in just before freshers EOS yeah, cos
they count freshers as the start of term EOS so you’ll have it, so EOS
cause I need it EOS otherwise I won’t be going out much in the
beginning EOS no, you’ll have fun, freshers is good EOS mm I think I’m
coming down to Leeds EOS mm, I know, I went out with him, I think it
was not last Friday, the Friday before, and I lost my phone EOS I know
the only time I go out with my cousins, and I loose my EOS have you
got it back? no I know, in **anon** as well EOS and I bet someone who
took it, cos I think someone took it, cause like, I rang it and it was
off, and I was like, ‘someone’s took it’ ah, was so upset EOS is it
your Blackberry? I was so upset EOS now she’s got a Samsung, her old
phone EOS where did you go with them? erm, just round **anon**, like
EOS yeah and then I think, it was a- cos we went to a pizza place, you
know, like you do EOS after you’ve been out you get a bit peckish EOS
you do anyway EOS so- so I must’ve like put my phone down EOS and got
really excited about this pizza EOS and then just forgot that my phone
was there, but I went back the day after and they was like, ‘oh no,
we’ve not seen it, we’ve not seen it’, I was like, ‘probably took it
haven’t you’ EOS yeah, they probably did EOS so, and I went into all
the pubs and everything, but, no EOS mm so now I’ve gotta save up for
another one EOS yay, fun times EOS and I’m skint EOS why are they all
pound signs on this map? cause you can win it EOS I don’t know EOS
wish I could win EOS when I win the lottery, just don’t put it on
though EOS I know, you should really put it on if you wanna win it EOS
it sort of helps EOS yeah, yeah, little bit EOS I hope to win it, just
don’t put it on EOS Mum puts it on every week and I’d- I’d like to
think that if she won, she’d give me a little bit EOS I’m sure she
would EOS yeah, my M- my Mum and Dad put it on every week EOS I don’t
know where they get that spare pound from EOS I never have a spare
pound, it’s always in my car ah EOS you hardly ready- for anything
though on it, do they? no, she wins like a fiver or something EOS
every now and again they’ll win a tenner or something EOS makes me
laugh EOS made me laugh on holiday, you know like the fruit machines
and stuff that you get over here EOS **anon** decided to go on a
foreign one, didn’t understand it EOS but yeah, he decided to keep
putting more and more money in it EOS someone who was in my Psychology
last year, he’s got like a gambling EOS he’s like, how old is he? I
think he’s like twenty, and he’s got a gambling problem, I was like
how can you even get one at twenty EOS cos he went, ‘I just go to the
casinos every weekend’, and I’m like, ‘why? W-Where do you even get
money from to do that?’ EOS **anon** goes quite a lot to the casino
EOS wish I had money to go to a casino but no EOS yeah wish I had a
job EOS having a car rinses your money EOS like anything I have like
one night out a month EOS I know, it’s horrible but it’s so expensive
insurance, it’s EOS always is these days EOS **anon** got quoted nine
thousand pound EOS to go on my car, and I was like, it’s not exactly a
big car EOS nine thousand, I was like EOS who would pay that? I don’t
know EOS why so much? I don’t know, I think it’s cos he’s a boy, but
it’s meant to have gone the same isn’t it EOS so, it should really be
the same, cos we’re both the same age EOS I don’t know, it’s the same
car EOS how much is yours? erm, just under three EOS you wouldn’t pay
nine grand though EOS it’s not exactly EOS no, I know, I was like ‘are
you sure you did it right?’, and he was like, ‘yeah’ ‘hm, alright’
nine grand ah talking to **anon** about my scars, cos I’ve got loads
all over my EOS cos I was just clumsy EOS I’m just clumsy all the
time, never broke anything EOS but I’ve got cuts and, ah, I’ve got
about four bruises now, and I’ve no idea where they’ve come from EOS
oh I always get bruises EOS it’s like, all over me I m- I must like
fall over a lot EOS but I just don’t remember EOS are they from nights
out? I’ve still got that bite on my leg it’s still like, you run over
my leg and it’s like a proper bad bump, it’s horri- what, from
insects? horrible, hate them EOS told I told **anon** about **anon**,
you know **anon**, well, everyone knows **anon**, and he was like,
‘really’, I was like, ‘yeah, really’ EOS have you seen her? Recently
EOS yeah, she’s got a- she came to my Gran’s thing on Saturday and she
had purple hair EOS purple tights, and I was like EOS ‘do you think
she’s like purple at the moment?’ EOS but then she had pink crocs on,
I was like, what are you doing with your life? and then you know, we
all had like, stickers on, name tags EOS just in case people didn’t
know who we are EOS Claudia’s **anon** is in the car EOS as it’s asked
the whole family EOS ‘**anon**, **anon** granddaughter’ EOS it was
like, ‘this is ridiculous’, and erm, **anon** came EOS ‘**anon**,
**anon** partner’, I was like, ‘ooh, cringe’ EOS she looks like a man
doesn’t she EOS ahh, disgusting, right she had all her hair, cos she’s
grown her hair, she had it all scraped back in a pony EOS oh, has she
grown it? and she had a suit on, not a sui- not a suit, like a shirt
and jeans, and I was like she’s proper- if you didn’t know that she
was a girl, she’s- she’s a man EOS she looks like a man EOS it’s like,
‘oh my God’, it’s embarrassing EOS well, she’s starting to grow her
hair EOS ah, it’s embarrassing EOS I was telling him, and he was like,
‘oh right’ he went, ‘my cousins- my sisters a lesbian’ I was like,
‘oh, right’ ‘thanks’ EOS go round to his house, and they like they
they’ll sit and talk about her, she’s not- she doesn’t live there EOS
and they’ll sit and talk about her and it- they’ll be dead horrible
about her, and it’s like ‘that’s a bit harsh’ EOS so, I don’t know
what to say but they swear, all the time his family EOS and I’m sat
there, cos, we don’t swear, well, do sometimes but like, not in front
of like your Mum EOS and I was like, sat there and they just, ah,
every other word, and I was like, ‘oh my God, I don’t know what to do’
EOS I’m just sat there like EOS ‘alright’ cos it’s dead weird they’re
dead nice though EOS at least you get on with them EOS do you get on
with your boyfriend’s parents? yeah aye, I get on with all his family
EOS oh, that’s good EOS ah, so tired EOS want my bed EOS my mouth’s
dead dry now from talking EOS have you got water? yeah, I’ve still got
some EOS my mouth was worse cos I was drinking yesterday EOS I think
the weather is making- it’s making my lips dead dry EOS and then
they’re dead sore EOS my throat was dead sore cos it was dry the other
day EOS what are local people like? not very friendly, not really EOS
ah, that reminds me, in the pub yesterday I was just sat at this
table, **anon** and his Dad were stood at the bar there- this was just
at **anon** EOS this was like at twelve o’clock and EOS this lad
called **anon** EOS and this old man there, so I was- I was just sat
there, this per- lad comes in all cuts down his arm, self harmer EOS
blood shot eyes, looked like he was on God knows what, come in, came
up to me and went, ‘have you got any- any money? Spare pound or
something for a drink? I’m shaking, I been out all night, soaking wet
through, I need a drink’, I was like, ‘no’ EOS I went, ‘no’, and th-
then they went over to **anon** and his Dad an- and asked them, they
were like, ‘no’, then he went, ‘right, just gonna go toilet to get a
drink of water’ and EOS ew, from the toilet, you can get free water
from the bar EOS **anon** went into the toilet, and all the basins
were dry, so I bet he was trying to like get money out of the machine
thing, you know, like cos they have them machines in the toilets,
trying to see if there was money in them EOS oh, **anon** there’s
always this- I think- I think he’s like homeless and he wears like,
joggers and then a coat, and that’s it, and it’s like ‘mmm’, it’s a
bit digusting EOS and he’ll sit with a pint, the whole night, the same
pint the whole EOS it’s like, I don’t even know how it lasts that long
EOS it wouldn’t with me anyway EOS I drink like a fish