one, two, three EOS I wouldn’t- I- I wouldn’t exactly call it the best
or funniest but it w- an incident that’s always stuck into my mind, I
wasn’t a- I wasn’t a lover of dolls, but me Mother’d dressed this doll
up for Christmas, and it was all in green georgette, I’ve never
forgotten that EOS and I’d gone out shopping with me Mother, we lived
up near Hope hospital then and I’d gone out with her, to Eccles, and
when I came back, the doll was on the settee, leant up against a- a
cushion, and me two older brothers were there, I hadn’t got the
younger one then, and erm, they’d scooted out of the house you see
when we came home and when I picked the doll up, and, they’d gagged it
EOS and I took the gag off and when I took the gag off the face was
split EOS oh, well, as I say, I didn’t care for dolls at all when I
was young EOS I still don’t, they’ve got to be very pretty dolls for
me to EOS so of course I was- I was a mardy so I started EOS crying
then, you know EOS so they were in trouble when me Dad came home from
work cos that was something- I treasured it because they didn’t have a
lot of money, you know, when we were children EOS that’s my thought
about my two brothers EOS you alright love? **anon** gone out EOS and
to go on holiday EOS we used to go to Fleetwood EOS me Mother always
said, ‘when I get some money, and I retire, I will come and live at
Fleetwood’ EOS which she never did EOS she never- she never had enough
money to buy a house there EOS yes, my Dad was EOS it is yes, really
EOS see, we can talk EOS yes I did, cause I lived in Salford then, you
know, in a terraced house, so there was plenty of children around EOS
oh wasn’t there, no? no, no, not until- I was way, oh, I musta been in
my twenties before I started doing any EOS I was in the Brownies EOS
and then in me teens I was in the girls training corps EOS and I
played a trumpet EOS I couldn’t sing so I played the trumpet EOS erm,
rally vino, erm, oh, I had a bike but it was EOS oh well, that wasn’t
very clever EOS I had three brothers erm, one four year older than me,
one two year older, and one eight year younger than me EOS who was
always called, ‘our youngster’ EOS well me Grandma remem- I remember
her telling me that me Grandfather who I didn’t know, erm, was
carrying erm, a bo- a coffin downstairs, and suddenly a noise came
from the coffin EOS and they were frightened to death but it- it’s
obviously th- the body wind comes out when it’s- and me Grandma used
to laugh her head off about it, she said, ‘you’re Granddad was worried
to death about it’ EOS did you ever get hurt- oh yeah- yes I do mm EOS
th- st- away EOS oh I know that- that happened in Salford with
somebody but EOS they- they were found on the ground you know, yeah,
that was near the town hall in Salford EOS oh yes, many a time EOS I-
I was climbing EOS on the back- in the yard at home EOS up the back
door, to the- that goes out into the entry, and it had slats across
like that, thick ones you know, I’d climbed up and then I slipped
down, I cut me knee open, so of course, I had to go up to EOS and erm,
I was going backwards and forwards for six months with that EOS yes,
it was stitched, but the stitches broke EOS and of course, you know,
those days it was EOS and erm, so I- that was one of my accidents EOS
I was very good at falling, even then Kristina **anon** EOS oh- oh I
didn’t, I just- I had measles EOS I had German measles when I was-
when I had **anon** EOS what kind of games did you play- Do you want
outdoor games there? oh well s- we have said some, haven’t we, oh yes
that was another EOS I do remember, I took me brother’s marble bag out
ooh, and I couldn’t play marbles EOS so of course, I- I lost them EOS
oh, my word EOS he was me favourite brother, and erm, he wasn’t me
favourite after that day, not for a few days, no EOS I wasn’t his
favourite girl, no EOS to the other EOS and I went to one called
**anon** in **anon**, Salford, then we moved up to near **anon**, and
it was **anon** EOS it was down a dirt path, and erm, from there, we
went back to **anon** and I went to **anon**, then I passed the
scholarship, clever so-and-so EOS erm, and went to **anon**, and that
had to close down because of the EOS so erm, and then they opened a
brand, new school, **anon** it was EOS and I finished up me schooling
there EOS oh I enjoyed school EOS but me Dad always used to say,
‘you’ll be sorry when you leave you EOS and I was never sorry when I
left EOS ooh, what do you remember from your f- so you were schooling
all your life really EOS what do you remember from your first day at
school? well I was only three when I went EOS and the story goes that,
I was missing one day and me- me Mother was- went looking for me and
erm, I was found in the school playground where me brother was going
to, and I did it a couple of times and so in the end he said, ‘oh, you
can leave her’ EOS so that’s how I started my school, at three EOS
well we used to go to Fleetwood, and we always stayed in a boarding
house where you- you did your own catering EOS it’s cheaper that way
you see and the- did she, yes EOS yeah, oh yes, you took provisions
EOS and then you went out and shopped for your bacon and stuff like
that, oh gosh, yeah EOS well I’ve d- when we went back to, erm,
**anon** after the blitz, we did a lotta sport, we used to go into
**anon** EOS and erm, or **anon**, which was next door and we used to
play Netball and Basketball and all sorts, you know EOS I was good at
that, the lads always chose me to be on their team EOS well we just
lived across the river from there EOS oh so- so he was a catholic then
EOS so he- it depends which side of Salford he lived in EOS if he went
to **anon** because EOS erm cos it’s the nearest- oh that was Weast
EOS describe your favourite teacher, well I think my favourite EOS was
me French teacher EOS she was a, quite a bonny lady, you know, but I
liked her EOS very much and me favourite teacher, well, erm, me least
favourite teacher, I remember her quite well EOS she w- I’ve- I’ve-
I’ve not got to mention the name have I EOS no, she wouldn’t be well,
her name was **anon** actually EOS but she was, no she wasn’t my
favourite teacher at all EOS how about you? did you ever get into
trouble for something at school? Yes EOS talking too much in class EOS
and were you ever blamed for something that wasn’t your fault? Yes I
EOS yes, well, me Dad had bought me a- a fountain pen and I- it went
missing, you know, and we were- the teacher had gone out of the class
and we were doing out work and then suddenly, this girl near me took
out my fountain pen EOS and just as the teacher walked back in, mouthy
**anon** shouted, ‘that’s my pen’ EOS so of course sh- she called me
out, and it w- the teacher that- that lesson used to teach me Dad and
erm, his sisters when they were young, ‘**anon**’ of course, that was
me maiden name, erm, ‘what’s the problem’ and, she said, ‘you’re
starting again’, I said, ‘no, th- that was my- that’s my pen that me
Dad bought me’ so you see, and she was blaming me for the- causing the
trouble EOS anyway, she apologised afterwards and I was allowed to go
and clean the cupboard out and I didn’t know whether that was an
honour or not, or a punishment, you know, cos I wasn’t- I didn’t do
cleaning EOS I do now but I didn’t then EOS but erm, but you see i-
if- if any- if I did something wrong EOS she used to say ‘hm, just
like your Father’ EOS and when I went to infant school there was a
teacher there that knew me Dad, phew, ‘typical of **anon** daughter’
used to say, you know EOS y- yeah he must’ve been, he must’ve been EOS
my parents were, Mother was well I don’t really know where she was
born to be honest because her par- her Mother died when she was three
erm, so I don’t really know a lot, but she went to live in erm,
Manchester, with erm, some Uncles and Aunts so, but the rest of her
life she lived in Salford EOS until she died mm EOS new garden city
EOS and two separate rooms EOS ten shilling one EOS of work, that’s
right EOS well I the last house me Mum and Dad were in erm, that was
rented of course, I got married from there, and then I got a house
exactly the same in the next street EOS two years after I got married,
yes EOS oh gosh, that’s- it has, and Salford has EOS I mean erm, now
then we had- somebody was correcting me the other day, I said about
Salford docks, al- well it was always known as Manchester docks, I
said it was still in EOS it was on our side of the river EOS and the
canal EOS that- if you were a drinker, yeah, yeah EOS that was on EOS
erm, Trafford Road EOS I didn’t drink so EOS I didn’t- I didn’t try
any of them EOS yes, you couldn’t pass a corner without a pub EOS yes,
oh yes, I always say when I go to The Lowry in Salford EOS me Dad was
erm, he had to go on work of national importance in the war because he
was too old for the forces and he was meant to- was sent as a docker
EOS and the difference in his- his dress when he- he was a docker and
when he was a- in his- his own job, you know EOS it’s unbelievable,
and like, we always say, ‘ooh, he’d turn over in his grave if he could
see these docks now’ you know EOS it is- I mean that is a- something-
a bonus to Salford that EOS and The Lowry EOS The Lowry, yeah EOS no,
I don’t, I mean they are saying that since the IRA bomb EOS it’s
improved it, but I don’t think it has EOS oh, that used to be
gorgeous, yes EOS no but erm- well I mean I don’t think EOS I don’t
think they should forget the war EOS erm, I think the youngsters want-
when I say something to my children now they say, ‘you should write a
book Mum’ you know EOS because of these incidents during the war, you
know EOS came from Salf- yes, they did EOS oh yes, yes, and- me Mother
was, erm, if there was anything happening in Salford, like I always
remember when the Bish- the- one of the Bishop’s died EOS the Catholic
Bishop’s died, and erm, of course we had to go to St- erm, Salford
Cathedral EOS we only stood outside the church, and there was meself
and me brother that’s two year older than me, and he was a very good-
looking child, you know and erm, somebody turned round and said to me
Mother, ‘ooh, hasn’t he got a saintly face’ EOS he wasn’t a saintly
child mind you EOS of course, when me Mother got home she said to me
Father, ‘somebody say hasn’t, erm, **anon** got a saintly face’ so for
ever- ever after that, me Dad always just say, ‘where’s the saintly
one’ EOS he was known as the saintly one EOS yes, ‘til me Dad died,
yes, and erm- oh I did, I’ve just told you all about that haven’t I,
sorry about that love EOS didn’t know about that EOS well I- I do go
to erm, **anon** sports centre on a Wednesday to play table tennis,
I’ve done that for years, not that- I play at playing it, that’s the
truth but EOS that one about- did you move house, what memories do you
have? We- well, when we went to live, erm, near Hope Hospital we were-
it was new property, and me Grandma had won the Irish sweepstake, so
she bought two houses EOS we moved into one of them EOS and, at the
end of the road where we lived there was the stream EOS and I used to
like fishing there for tadpoles, and one day it was absolutely
chucking it down, me Mother said, ‘has she gone fishing again’, so she
came and sorted me out you see, and there’s me sat with me jam jar,
and me little fishing net, and she said, ‘come on in, it’s too wet to
be sat here’ but I was enjoying meself, you know EOS so I had to go
in, I think she was frightened of me getting pneumonia EOS yeah and
then we go to the **anon** Theatre in- erm, just on the square EOS for
the evening bit EOS we used to go on a Thursday, yes we did EOS so
it’s a shame, really, oh did you, ooh you were posh then weren’t you
EOS ooh, I tell you, you see, it’s coming out she say- she’s quite
posh really, on the quiet you see- oh, I’ve heard of it EOS it’s, yes,
it was EOS on the television EOS I was working when that EOS the- and
why we didn’t close I don’t know EOS cause now they close things like
that don’t they EOS and that’s what happened to me, we moved to
**anon** so it’s just round the corner from Katrina **anon** EOS and
then erm, we- I moved here the month after Katrina **anon** EOS yes
they are EOS mm especially around, you know, in this square EOS but
when I- I walk a lot to Urmston EOS going up Moorside road, there’s
all sorts of people say, ‘morning’, they do, they’re very friendly EOS
yes, I think we’ve answered all those haven’t we