One, two, three, four, five. go on, it’s gonna be horrible this EOS Er
were there lots of kids with you when you were playing up? Playing up,
growing up EOS Oh that’s- that’s nice EOS what was the best or
funniest memory from when you were young? I don’t think erm- I don’t
remem- remember having much memories of when I was a kid actually. I
genuinely don’t, I think I took too many knocks on my head when I EOS
just going, peddling and peddling and peddling. I used to think I was
EOS So fast going everywhere, used to run everywhere. How many sis-
how many brothers and sisters do you have, do you get- Do you get
along? It’s not too bad though is it? You just argue a hell of a lot
EOS and you’re all stubborn, it’s well annoying EOS What- what did you
say? There’s not a lot to do but now like we’ve all got a bit older
and we can all start driving and stuff, we can obviously go further
away and there’s obviously quite a lot of things to do. Bit of golf
when it gets a bit boring. But no-one- no-one ever goes down with me
EOS There’s football and stuff but whatever floats your boat really.
I’m easily entertained I think. Erm are you going on holiday this
year? You said Cat- you said Catalonia. It’s Catalonia, just- carry
on! Hopefully it’ll be good weather for us. Ooh- ooh, can’t wait! Er
what extra activities did you get involved in at school? were you a
boring kid when you were growing up? No you say something you got to
elaborate on it. Erm, depends at primary school there wasn’t much to
do so I just did erm, played a bit of- dabbled in a bit of rounders
and EOS and then realised it’s for girls and then started playing
football more. And then mum used to drive me to swimming every week
and like that EOS That was later on, when she thought I was putting on
a bit EOS Bit of a slave-driver EOS Erm it depends where we went
really, like at school there was always bulldog and stuff,. and
football and catch EOS pretty boring things tig what about you? Hide
and seek? in a square playground EOS Ooh, oh right. . Ah that’s good
then EOS What do you remember from your first day at secondary school?
Or grammar whichever one. oh, it wasn’t that bad though, was it? How
would you describe erm the local people? Yeah, you know, like EOS The
dark side of the road. Come to the dark side! Oh right, okay, did- did
you ever go caravanning when you were a kid or camping? Yeah we were
hardcore caravanners EOS We were! I remember the first one we went to,
we went to Dorset and erm, in the middle of the night, this dog
started barking on the campsite EOS and we looked out the window and
there was erm- the ca- caravan opposite was on fire cos so- No someone
had a chip pan and they had a fire and they put the wrong blanket over
and it just went, ‘.’ EOS Up in smoke and the a- the awning was going
crazy and the guy was out EOS Yeah they did, obviously cos it was a
fire EOS No it was really good one, it was a good holiday that
actually, we went erm on fossil beach. Not fossil beach it’s like a
beach with all like erm clay, and erm it had like, what are they
called? The little snail things that they had. Dinosaurs, the little-
what are they called? No they’re n- they’re animals I’m trying to
think what they’re actually called. Oh it doesn’t matter. Erm I did
move house when I was younger cos I was born in Salford and- but I- I
think I moved when I was about two so I don’t really remember much of
it. But we had some- I remember showing you some videos of when I was
younger as a kid at **anon**. And mum used to have this- it used to
have towers of pots that stacked up on top of each other. And we used
to have a chair in the- like in the corner of the room and Dad used to
push the- this old pot thing and it used to roll round the chair. And
I used to be amazed by it and he must’ve been doing it for about half
an hour, I was like, just watching it go round and round, I was
amazed. Couldn’t get my hands on it I was just like, ‘no!’ Have you
ever moved house at all? I didn’t say anything EOS nice, erm what th-
what things- no, what local events do you think it’s important people
know about in your town? you know, the us- usual stuff that goes on,
you know like markets and EOS Oh like down **anon** and stuff? I’m
sure my cousin’s . Erm there’s none really round here, is there? Th-
the- did the- oh, there’s the s- skiing thing EOS that’s happening at
the chill factor and it’s quite a erm big place. Oh and yeah obviously
we have Chassen Park round the corner. And erm I think it’s every
Sunday they have erm the little toy trains that go out. The steam
trains and people jump on them and they go round. And I always think
with United being so close, I think it’s good when events go on there.
Because it’s big and it gets a lot of people EOS Do you have to help
out around the house a lot, or not? You’re made to do it though aren’t
you? My mum loves me! Feral child. I used to get spends but she
stopped that when I moved out, like, ‘no you’re not having that any
more.’ EOS No not really, I think I’m quite lucky in that respect I
just sit around doing nothing EOS and Mum runs round after everybody
EOS She always complains about it though no-one ever makes her do it.
She always does it herself. It’s every Sunday, like when you’re
finally- you know when you’re coming back from half-term and you’re
going back to school on the Sunday she’s stressing out she’s like,
‘oh- oh have you got your dinner have you got your dinner, have you
got your money, have you cleaned- have you packed your bag, have you
packed your bag?’ EOS And she gets herself in like a little panic and
starts like getting mad at everybody. It’s like, ‘chill out for a
minute!’ EOS That’s a good question EOS I don’t know, I think they
both went to erm- both from **anon** I think. Yeah Dad used to live
down near **anon**, down that way. And I don’t know where my mum used
to live. Actually my mum might’ve used to live down near the cemetery
in **anon**. And she went to school with erm **anon** dad, as well EOS
she was in couple of years below. And I think they know each other
actually. Yeah where are your mum and dad from? good on her, good on
her, all my family are from round here though actually. Like my
nanna’s from **anon** I think. I think that’s about it, that’s how
foreign I am EOS Aren’t you like half **anon** or something? does he
just- does he just walk around wearing a kilt all the time EOS That’s
a lie EOS Do you have any pets at the moment or-? That just gets like
left out in the cold EOS for no love. No I don’t, I don’t have any
middle names or anything, my parents ju- . No, no, no- no, cos like
you’ve got- you got- you’ve got pets and stuff and I just get nothing.
And like I remember when I was growing up I always wanted to have a
middle name like. I don’t know why I just thought it’d be cool to have
a different middle name EOS Cos I don’t have- I’m not allowed any pets
and I wasn’t allowed a EOS That’s how it goes. You’ve got some strange
middle names haven’t you? Isn’t **anon** isn’t she? I saw it on her
passport the other day I was like, ‘hang on a sec **anon**?’ EOS
What’s that after? See mine’d be Rory **anon** EOS Yeah thanks for
that I don’t even know what my dad’s name was actually, so- no- No my
dad’s, dad’s name, Yeah I don’t know what- I never met them, you see
EOS You- you got the chance to meet them. Which one? Which one? Er it
was okay, it was just- it was a bit of a dump to be honest. It was
like on the corner of a road and EOS you get all the little scally
mums coming with their kids with big Mac meals in the morning, in
MacDonald’s bags, it was horrible. But it wasn’t too bad, I was glad
to get away. All the kids were idiots as EOS No you hear stories like
all of them, like there’s one that lives behind me and he’s er he’s
nearly been kicked out of his house a few times. He’s been in trouble
with police and stuff. And just random stuff like that. I was lucky to
get away from it EOS I think, what was yours like? Yeah I just hated
our school cos th- you realise as you get older, kids just take the
mick out of anything. Like everything it’s unreal. I remember one day,
I w- went into school with a cold sore on my lip. And I was like- yeah
they’re horrible I know, but. And this guy’s going, ‘why’ve you got
spaghetti Bolognese on you?’ EOS I’m like, ‘it’s- it’s in the morning,
why would I be having spaghetti Bolognese in the morning? And it just
doesn’t dry on my lip like EOS I used to hate it EOS But it was nice
when everyone was obviously friendly and stuff but you don’t realise
it when you’re a kid cos you’re so naïve at how stupid people were EOS
And how easy it is to get dragged into random social circles and EOS
Like I think I was lucky going to **anon** instead of **anon**. Cos
you see all the different- all the lads that went there it’s- I know
they’re not- most of them are really nice but they’re just more prone
to danger not- or not danger but trouble. How was **anon**? How was
it? I think we were lucky with bullying at **anon**. It was always EOS
dead friendly and stuff and EOS You always thought the ha- they’re
rough people when they didn’t hand their homework in EOS Not hitting
teachers and stuff. ‘oh, you got a detention’ . Erm I’m sure you’ve
asked me this one before, but-. I’ll answer it again. My best memory.
Erm I don’t know, not fr- I can’t remember much of my life, up until
like, after year five EOS I can’t remember anything before that
really. But erm- I- I know this is gonna make me sound sad but I
remember when I was in year five and I got picked to play for the year
six football team, and I was well EOS First person to do it through
our school, and I was chuffed with that. I just EOS used to love
football so, what was yours? Just throwing each other overboard. But
with bad water EOS trying to drown each other. Did you ever get hurt
when you were fighting in the water? Rescue mission hopefully . We
never used to do anything like that. I think I remember for year seven
birthday, went erm rock- abseiling with my uncle. We went EOS that was
the only thing scary. Yeah it was pretty scary. Although my brother-
when we- when we went, **anon** came along with us and he was- dunno
how old he was, he must’ve been about eight or something, he had his-
you know those trainers you used to get with lights on, and we- he
kept hitting the bottom of his shoes so they lit up EOS for that split
second. So we’d know we were okay. But other than that it was good.
Yeah a few times, remember once when my dad’s- some guy my dad used to
work with, his kid came round for the day and we used to have one of
those plastic slides in the back. And it used to feel so big when you
were up there, but he’s a little kid who’s younger than me, and he
pushed me over the edge EOS of the top of the slide and I broke my
collar bone. Yeah, and I was in hospital obviously, I was a crip EOS
for a few weeks EOS It’s just a sling, you don’t- you’re not even in a
cast, I think it’s just a arm sling. I can’t remember though and I
remember when I was learning to ride the bike, I- I- and I can picture
exactly where it is on the street as well, riding my bike I was going
along and all of a sudden I just went- like fell on my side, and I
don’t know why and I hit- hit my head on the tree and it killed EOS
And I remember playing in the back and I tripped over and I hit my
side of me head on the little fence panel thing, the concrete fence
panel on the side of that. And my friend got sent home. it’s like, ‘I
think you’d best go home now, he’s hurt.’ He was like, ‘okay.’ I
blamed it on him, so- . Did you ever used to have kids round your
house when you were younger? At like primary school, for tea? I
remember my birthdays as a kid. Think- think the one I remember the
most we had erm- erm what’s it called now? Bouncy castle in the back
EOS and it absolutely hammered it down that night. And the guy was sat
in his van for about three hours waiting for it to die down, he was
just like this, ‘ahh’ EOS Everyone had gone home already and he was
just there for about three EOS Waiting for the weather to go, it was
good. I used to love birth- kid’s birthday parties. You used to get so
many random toys and stuff EOS yeah, little bits of cake EOS Yeah and
sweets and stuff. I remember we used to go **anon** and for dessert we
always used to get erm vanilla and strawberry cake- no not cake erm,
ice cream EOS and with erm jelly as well, oh it was horrible but it
was so good as a kid, so much sugar at once EOS did you not have any
parties like that? I remem- remember once when JJB first opened and
you know they had a little play area there? And they had the- the one
half of a football pitch and someone had- er someone invited me to
their party there, said they were having it at JJB. So I was saying to
Mum, ‘oh, it’ll be a football party.’ So I had my- had my whole
football kit on, my shin pads and everything. I went there, we were in
the bloody play area, I looked like I’d been padded up for war rather
than for playing tig in the play area. I was running round with my
shin pads on and stuff EOS I was safety proofed. oh, in Sale EOS You
had to get in those sacks didn’t you? to go in it EOS I remember when-
I had a birthday party there and you used to- you always used to sit
on there. And we’ve got a video at home and I had a stiff neck. Oh my
EOS no, I couldn’t move, I was at the end of the table like, ‘urgh!’
EOS trying to blow my candles out like ‘’ not moving my neck at EOS
But when- when they did that they- they did erm- used to play party
games up there as well. And seeing myself dancing as a kid, oh my god
it must’ve been so embarrassing. Like, ‘that’s not my kid there!’ EOS
And they used to get the inflatable slide out for you as well, when
we’d all finished and stuff EOS bouncing down feeling sick going,
‘argh!’ EOS Food coming up. I used to- I don’t think I ever went down
that blue slide. Think I was too scared. I think I might’ve b- I think
I might’ve been once. It’s like a vertical drop! break my neck or
something EOS Yeah, and then get stood on. I used to love that I
absolutely used to love it. I- I miss being a- it’s closed down EOS
Yeah, I miss being a kid when you’re- you see some stuff and you’re
just like- and you see like your toys now and you’re like, ‘how did I
play with them for so long?’ EOS I remem- yeah- I- I was biker mice
from mars and power rangers, mine were EOS I used to have a little
power rangers doll that my cousin got from erm, I think it was Russia.
And I slept with it for ages EOS and I remember when I thought, ‘right
I’m going into secondary school EOS ‘I need to get rid of it.’ EOS And
I remember it used to take me about an hour to get to sleep EOS but it
was horrible, I know EOS it’s not as bad as my brother though, when he
was in like year six, he went to the- the bear factory and got a- a
stuffed cat. that’s sad, mine was a power ranger. His was a cat EOS
Least favourite teacher, oh **anon**. Oh my god he was so annoying he
was so patronising. Chemistry, it was- oh he used to froth at the side
of the mouth EOS he looks like a rat EOS Like he was really nice if
you wanted to do well but I remember in A- level chemistry, he just
annoyed me. And he was so patronising. Cos I couldn’t do it, I got
into A-level and I thought, ‘yeah I got an A at- in science in gcse.’
EOS then you go into chem.- chemistry doing A-level like going, ‘wait
a minute I don’t actually know anything about science.’ EOS I used to
absolutely hate him. What’s yours? Just like a turtle, not being able
to get up EOS it’s like, ‘’. Did you ever used to do show and tell at
EOS I think I w- in year six I remember bringing in my hamster EOS
but, no I used to- and it was so strange cos everyone picked like-
brought in these interesting animals, and I brought in a bloody EOS
The only interesting story was it tried to escape once EOS The most
boring pet life ever EOS I’ve had a couple of goldfish from school
fairs and stuff EOS I used to love our school fairs. They were really
good. You used to have your little, erm, your sponge to throw at your
teachers and stuff. Yeah did you not have that? Oh you were from
**anon**, they were probably throwing rocks at EOS Yeah but when you
were a kid, no-one could hit the teachers so it was a pretty safe bet
of doing it, wasn’t it? And sports day as well. and I remember the
sports day that we had in **anon**, we used to have osprey, eagle,
hawk and kestrel little team- teams that you were in. It was four
birds it’s not hard EOS Why do you want pigeon as a team it’s just EOS
‘I’ll go pigeon’ EOS Yeah it was it was really fun though. We were
never that equipped as a school EOS Our school was so bad it was
unreal. Not rea- no EOS Er I never really got into trouble in primary
school, I used to be like really good. And th- there’s a picture in
the reception, I’m not su- sure if it’s still there. And someone took
a picture of our class when we were in year one and everyone else was
like- like talking and laughing. And one of them- I remember one of
the guys, he was round the camera like doing tongue out like that at
the camera, and I was there in the- in the corner with my lip, my
finger against my lip and I was just EOS I used to sit like that. I
must’ve sat like that for about four years just like, ‘yes’ EOS I used
to be scared of getting in trouble I think. But I remember in year six
when we had erm, after the eleven plus and we got pay back time. And
we got to do like fun stuff outside. And didn’t do any lessons. I
remember we were- me and three other lads were talking, we had to go
and sit outside and do a bloody reading assessment. It was so annoying
and everyone else was sewing, as g- as sad as that sounds EOS did you
ever used to- we had to make these- our own little erm pencil EOS And
do the little sewing patterns on it, it was really good. Thanks, I
used to hate getting in trouble though. I remember when I got my first
detention at **anon**. I forged the signature- like the signature so
me mum wouldn’t find out. I used to hate it. Erm having a naked pen in
foundation studies. You know the one that you’d turn it round and the-
the bikini costume EOS It was **anon**- it was **anon** br- brother’s
and he’d robbed it and brought it in. And me, **anon** and **anon**
used to sit in a three. We were in year seven, so like twelve EOS
**anon** brought it in and me and **anon** were just like, ‘aargh!’
EOS staring at this pen. And the teacher came up and was like, ‘what’s
that?’ And we were like, ‘nothing nothing!’ EOS And we all had to
stay- we had a a half an hour detention at dinner EOS I felt like a
badass after that though EOS Going round like nothing could touch me,
it was just, ‘I’ve got a detention, so what?’. Did you get in trouble?
Even at secondary school? Bet everyone hated you EOS Got sacked yeah
lying EOS I remember our dinner ladies we used to- there always used
to be like the ty- the stereotypical nasty one that they were always
scared of EOS and then there was a nice one as well that didn’t care
EOS just like- oh and we used to have our wet day books. When it was
raining outside and we had to draw pictures inside it. They were like
the most boring EOS lunchtimes of my life, cos we used to have- We
used to have our- I think it was- we had an hour and I think it got
split into like when you were in year three and up, you could- as soon
as you’d finished you could go out. And have your dinner but when you
were in like reception to year two you had to wait ‘til half past EOS
before you could go out. And we used to have to just draw in these
books and it was so boring. It was unreal EOS There’s only so many
times I can draw stick men EOS or play noughts and crosses with myself
EOS Not so much no. I don’t- no, er my granddad died when I was
younger EOS so- I- like I said I can’t remember anything from when I
was younger EOS And my nanna- she doesn’t know what day it is, so EOS
so not really, no. There’s some interesting ones that you listen to
when you’re growing up but- nothing like major. Yeah, have you? Do
you- do you remember when your granddad made everyone believe that he
got shot in the war? You was gullible though EOS do you not think he
would have died? Did your dad know that it wasn’t real? My- my parents
never used to play tr- tricks on me. I just used to cry if they did .
I remember when we used to go to Macro and erm they used to have the
erm escalators that were flat. I remember- I never used to remember
going erm, to the airports when I was a kid and I u- I just used to
run up and down and up these escalators cos they were flat I was like,
‘yay!’ EOS But now you see them at asda and they’re just annoying EOS
Where else have you been on holiday then, is it just France and EOS
I’d love to go to America. Why cos there’s just loads of it? super
large portion. Oh it sounds it yeah EOS Was it like our KFC? They have
crab claws we’ve got Kentucky fried chicken EOS Erm when I was younger
I used to go to Majorca a couple of times but then we gave up on that
side of things EOS And got the caravan EOS And then we used to go to
Dorset and Cornwall and remember the trips to Cornwall, were over like
thirteen hours, just stuck in traffic EOS That’s when dad decided to
invest in some erm DVD players for the EOS so we wouldn’t get too
bored. Then he used to shout at us telling us to ‘turn it down, it’s
distracting him while his driving’ EOS And the classic, ‘if you don’t
shut up I’ll turn round!’ EOS and then- and then later on we’ve
ventured to France and that’s when I got too tall for the caravan and
got kicked outside into a tent. On my own. That was the last straw I
think I was like, ‘I’m not going back.’ And then later on we went to-
back to Spain I think, for the last- Oh we went to **anon** as well in
Lanzarote. Like a sports complex. No it wasn’t a summer holiday it was
in April though, was in like April, March for Easter holiday. No I
don’t think so. Probably went caravanning after it. No I used to be
sca- I used to hate like flying though. Cos like- like when you’re
going up and it like drops that bit, when it’s going up. Man it makes
me stomach turn upside down. Me mum’s always like ‘oh!’ EOS the only
one on the plane that’s screaming EOS I went round my auntie and uncle
when they took erm her daughter- their daughter and her husband and
they were filming her when my auntie, when she was taking off. Oh my
god she looked like she was having a panic attack, like, white knuckle
ride gripping onto the- onto the side EOS Just like head straight back
into the seat and it was like, ‘please don’t take off, please don’t
take off!’ it was so funny but it’s just weird it runs in the family
stuff like that. Like I won’t- I won’t go on rollercoasters. Unless-
unless there’s peer pressure on me EOS l- if- peer pressure’s the
worst thing, like when we went camping, I wouldn’t have gone into the
lake if no-one else did. Mm, it was freezing . I get- I- I always get
scared of like erm when I’m swimming in the sea, even when- no when
it’s quite deep, like- I dunno I just like picture getting dragged
down by something EOS Yeah. Even though I know it wouldn’t happen. But
I don’t know why, it’s scary, when I can’t see the bottom it’s- freaks
me out. Like I used to be scared when we used to go on the ferries to
France, like if it crashed, and I was always thinking, ‘well you’d die
wouldn’t you? You wouldn’t be able to get out.’ EOS I was scared. It’s
me mum that EOS I remember when we went to Bulgaria with the lads, the
sea there was horrible. Like it was really hot EOS but it was just
filled with jellyfish and rubbish and- you couldn’t really go in it.
And it was all dirty and it was horrible. So not a big fan of seas.
Well I am but-. If it- yeah. Yeah the amount of just rubbish that’s in
it, it’s horrible. Y- you see little scraggy kids just weeing in it
don’t you EOS That is their toilet in Blackpool it’s- it’s- ‘do you
need the toilet?’ EOS First I’ve heard of it EOS When you were- when
you were younger, I know. Just kidding, just EOS right, go on, what
were you gonna say? I was just gonna say- it doesn’t matter, I- I was
just gonna carry on the conversation but ask me a question, I’ll
answer it EOS Do you want me to ask- ask you a question? Erm .
There’s- I- I w- I’m just gonna carry on with my conversation EOS Like
I hate how my mum and dad used to- well my mum especially used to EOS
make me scared of like, loads of random things. Like rollercoasters
EOS sh- cos she was always like, ‘don’t go near the edge you might
die!’ EOS And when you’re a kid you’re like, ‘will I?’ EOS And it kind
of sticks with you, doesn’t it, and like EOS subconsciously you don’t
realise it and then- Oh I love animals, they just don’t seem to love
me. . like I remember when we went to ‘Go Ape’ in- first time we went
to France. I did the first one. But I remember getting stuck on like-
there’s like a skateboard EOS and you have to attach yourself to the
top of it. And you got to make sure your karabiners are the right way
round. And I attached one of them the wrong way. And I was sliding
down and li- I got like a quarter of the way across on this skateboard
EOS that was really loose, I was holding on for dear life. And I
realised I couldn’t go any further cos one of my karabiners was stuck
round the other pieces of EOS and I was like, ‘no!’ Like felt like I
was gonna die up there So I had to drag myself back and unhook myself.
And I think I was scared form then on. Yeah it was pretty scary EOS
I’m not gonna lie. I’m not a big fan- I’m not a big fan of heights EOS
Well I am it’s just like heights, I just dunno- I know nothing’s ever
gonna happen but I just feel like, what if a big gust of wind comes
and like just EOS I know I am, but, no like when you took me it was-
it’s one of those things where you don’t want to do it but then, when
you’ve done it you’re like ‘yeah, let’s do it again, let’s do it
again, let’s do it EOS But when you’re up there you’re like, ‘no no
please don’t!’ EOS it’s a horrible circle. I- in France we met this
erm- Mum and dad met this couple, and they had two kids of a similar
age to me and **anon** and erm we went with them to go ape. And it was
the one- the time when I got stuck on the skateboard. And this guy’s
dad had to get erm abseiled down by the people cos he was scared. He
couldn’t do it he was scared of heights. And his little ten year old
kid did it and he was- he was like hugging this tree, waiting for the
people to climb up and-. And he had to wait there for like half an
hour while they got all the equipment sorted up and stuff, and get
carried down. E- everyone watching you, ‘ha ha!’ EOS Hmm, I know. Cos
you’re impatient though, that’s the thing isn’t it? You g- just go to
think like- I don’t think- you just gotta- it’s weird, the connotation
of when you are- as a kid. How much it stays like that. And that’s
about it really, isn’t it?