well not a lot at the moment EOS er the crazy thing is, is if you
weren't here we'd be chatting away like anything it's yeah EOS well
where I live’s in the er- the regeneration area, because they’re
ripping Salford apart at the moment so erm by two-thousand eleven
where I live will be gone EOS er which is a- a multi-story block which
is er w- I should think will be all the better for it EOS you know it
will be completely gone EOS yeah it's to save money EOS yeah, well
it’s just counc- yeah council slums EOS revamped council slum EOS yeah
I did EOS very hard labour EOS that went ages ago that’s a block of
flats now yeah EOS yeah they did erm- when I was a kid there was a
group called the Spinners, and er there’s a song called Dirty Old Town
that’s about EOS and they actually sang it and got filmed on the
bridge that was over the road when we were at school EOS yeah, yeah
the school was on one side and the playground was on the other and
there was a bridge over the road EOS yeah and they- they actually
recorded it and did a video on the ‘Dirty Old Town’, you’ll want to
look that up if you’re thinking about Salford that song EOS it’s about
all the gas works and all that, that like it was when I was a kid EOS
yeah, yeah **anon** in the old **anon** yeah EOS put in a drawer and
shoved under the table EOS no it’s completely- I mean it- it’s
absolutely completely different now I mean, it- it’s like when you and
**anon** were little wasn't so very different but I think computers
have made a huge difference to the kids EOS I mean cos **anon** now at
thirteen I mean EOS yeah that’s really so- that’s all- everything else
is just boring isn't it you know EOS and er he is- he’s sheltered as
well because he’s- he’s the only child with his mum EOS mm and er EOS
and his nana when he comes staying up here, she only ever had two EOS
she’s scared of anything that a boy would do isn't she- she can EOS
‘oh you can't do that’ EOS ‘come and dress you doll in front of the
Xbox’ EOS yeah, yeah and then I go up with a gun EOS well I- I try- I
try to introduce him to things that EOS you do outside the house the
kind of things I did when I was a kid EOS you know like, catapults you
know EOS and then the air rifle and what have you, you know and- and
just try- just trying to get him outside the house is a struggle
because it’s- it’s like- it was like when we went to that scooter do
last week, wasn't it? we were there I mean the vintage scooters and-
and it was really good cos these are like me cousin runs this **anon**
scooter club EOS what thirteen year old lad isn't going to want to sit
on a motorbike you know but, no ‘I’m bored, can I go’ EOS yeah,
blinkered completely yeah EOS yeah only when I told him that the
boredom bit won’t work today that EOS it’s a nice day we’re having a-
a, you know just- just relax you know and having a drink and sitting
on the grass and you know enjoying the EOS so sit down and enjoy it
EOS well, you had a den EOS yeah, well we li- we lived- it was right
in **anon** wasn't it and EOS and all the grass verge over the side
where the bushes were and you and **anon** were only toddlers and you
had a den in there with the other kids and- yeah, it’s like that- that
motorbike I got for **anon** that time and EOS yeah well it wasn't it
was a- it was a- what’s it- wasn't it- it was a child's bike- a dirt
bike for when he was six years old EOS and er he kept jumping off in
it and letting it go on its own EOS ‘dad, I’m scared’ EOS and let the
bike go EOS remember them water pistols EOS yeah, and- Super Soakers
he had like yeah, two tanks on his back and he was that little the
weight of the water used to pull him over EOS I was on the doorstep
and the- the- the whatsit the er bus stop was on the other side and
all the people waiting at the bus stop EOS and we were able to fire it
and we were able to soak them from our doorstep and they did not know
where it was coming from, yeah, yeah EOS great example as a father EOS
yeah, yeah ‘g- just- just get the old lady there with the bag’ EOS you
were- you were bloody worse but EOS yeah he- he- he was on the roof
getting his toys back in EOS well, he’s a boy EOS that- that’s what
boys are like isn't it EOS yeah, right, like pushing him down the
stairs in EOS in- in his little- what was it called that little EOS
tyke- little car was it EOS he probably did but you still pushed him
gr- you know happily EOS yeah had the- the big s- sponge hand yeah EOS
and the big sponge hand wasn't it yeah EOS oh I don’t know EOS which
he still does not forgive you for and he’s twenty-one EOS yeah, yeah
he’s at- he’s at erm Center Parcs isn’t he, this weekend with his
mates yeah EOS well you- you don’t know do you EOS I mean I- you see a
car with him and you say ‘do you- do you- do you like that?’, ‘it’s
alright’ EOS you know, I- I don’t know whether it’s just that- that
thirteen year old grunting stage that he’s at you know that- yeah
Guitar Hero EOS yeah well I- I can't see the point of it EOS yeah,
well he has- he has a guitar at home and I don’t know, and apparently
I mean I’ve- I’ve heard him once but, he’s er, not too happy about
letting me know about it that he- he plays the keyboard as well but he
doesn’t read music, he just picks it up by ear EOS erm but I can’t see
the point of this- this Guitar Hero if you can’t actually make a tune
yourself EOS you might as well just spend that time learning to play
the guitar EOS you know instead of playing somebody else's tracks by
pushing buttons EOS you’re not- you-re not learning anything EOS yeah
you’re just learning a sequence EOS but the sequence does not relate
to a real guitar so it’s not EOS it’s pointless it’s- I bet it sounds
awful, I bet it’s worse than karaoke EOS yeah, at least karaoke’s
acceptable because you’re mainly drunk EOS you know so that’s EOS
that’s alright, you know but when you’re sober and you hear EOS
screeching at the top of their voice you know I- oh yeah, yeah EOS oh
I know, and that- that EOS oh, all I remember is that one that kept
getting all bloody Elvis songs and thought he was fantastic and he was
terrible EOS he didn’t even drink but he had a list of Elvis songs
that he wanted EOS ah never seen anything like that EOS I don’t know,
I can’t remember no EOS I’m getting old you know, I’m getting senile
and EOS I’m losing it, me memory goes EOS hey you made me get up and
you bloody filmed it EOS now there’s nothing- I don’t mind making a
fool of myself but what I hate about mobile- mobile phones is that now
you can make a fool of yourself and you have to watch it tomorrow EOS
you know I mean when- when I was younger you made a fool of yourself
when you got drunk, and you just walked sheepishly into the room the
next day and you know and- and hoped that nobody was going to say
anything now you walk in EOS ‘look at you, you prat’ EOS wasn’t it
that lad- didn’t that lad film it? no he- he actually he came in and
he sang that song didn't he, he came in and he sang that song and I- I
was at the bar and I was talking to him when he came over EOS and I
says ‘when I used to live out here’ EOS I said ‘they had a- they had a
term, for your kind of singing’ EOS I said ‘it’s not shite, it’s worse
than shite’ EOS and he’s looked at me and then he came over and bought
us a EOS yeah ‘Leaving on a Jet Plane’ EOS yeah but then by half past
ten all the pensioners have gone up haven't they went EOS one rum and
black and you know then mm EOS but no I- I that was good I enjoyed
that holiday EOS I remember the first holiday we took you on, God you
were a nightmare EOS no it was Menorca, and you were just- cos we went
on a- we went on a last minute deal because you would have been- I
took because I never used to take me holiday well in- when I used to
take me holidays from work I used to always drive your mum crazy
because I used to say er, ‘oh, we won’t go away this week cos we’re-
this year’ because we were doing the house up, and EOS and then I used
to be that fed up that when the holidays come like three days before
the holidays I’d go and book something EOS and you know what your
mum’s like, she likes to pack three months EOS so it, yeah it used- it
used to be a nightmare she used to have a list of the lists yeah EOS
and it used to be a nightmare because she’d be panicking like anything
because she had to try and get everything EOS and she was five months
pregnant at the time with **anon** when we took EOS and you were- what
were you- you were just under two, and for some reason everything was
a post office, and I had to- I mean your mum had a great holiday she
was laying around for two weeks getting the sun I was running around
after you for two weeks constantly EOS walking all around the walls,
all around the pools EOS and you were great and there was a little
slide into the kiddies' pool and I think it was all great EOS and you
were sliding down it and you were loving it until you went EOS until
your head got wet EOS that was it then you didn't want, ‘I want to go
home, you’ve gotta take me home’ EOS that was Majorca that. he
wouldn't go in the water would he? he was only about two wasn't he? he
EOS I remember when we took you- yeah, we went to that other one at
Majorca when you was in the kiddie EOS yeah, what was her name? Was it
**anon**? you've still got the certificate haven't you? yeah, from
when you was in the Wizzy Club and you was only what, and you had your
one favourite book with you. do you not remember it? yeah, you must
remember it, one book you wanted to take. no, no, no. the Pied Piper.
and you knew every single word of the book. this little lady bird book
and you knew every single word of the book and you used to have that-
that story time at the end of the night for the kids at about six
o'clock, and she came up to me this **anon** cos you'd taken your
book, and you was only about three and she came up to me and she says
‘can Natalie **anon** read?’, so I said ‘no, no, she EOS she says ‘
but she's sat there with the book. She’s turning the pages at exactly
the right time’ EOS I said ‘that's her absolute favourite book’ I said
‘that's the only book she wanted to bring with her’ EOS I said ‘she
knows every single line in that book. Every single word’ and I said
‘the bad part about that is, is when I have to read it to her every
night before she goes to sleep, I can't skip a page’ EOS ‘cos she’ll
say, ‘well you’ve missed a bit there, you know, that's not next that
dad’.’ you know EOS no he w- you weren't. No, what it was it w- it was
the last day, it- it was the last day we were there and we're all
packed ready to go EOS and then she says that she's having a fancy
dress for the kids. I thought ‘oh God, what- what are we going to do
on the last day?’ cos everything’s packed, and you know what your
mum’s like, she'd listed everything again so EOS you know and the list
was in the s- you can't take anything out, no, no if you get dirty
you've got to stay dirty because I’ve got me list in the case. you
know EOS so you were there, I mean, you were only what?, so high and
curly dark hair and really dark skin because of the- the- the Maltese
in you EOS and er, I thought ‘what are we going to do with her?’ I
thought ‘we'll make her into a hula girl’ EOS and that- so I went out
and I ripped all the- the- the palms off the trees strung them all
together and made you a little grass skirt. put a- a flower on each
side of your head, and that was it, just a skirt and a flower on each
side of your head and your knickers. and when you went- when you went
to it and she asked you what you were you said you was a tree. yeah
you did, you won it, yeah, but you said you was a tree. she says ‘what
have you come as Natalie **anon**?’, ‘a tree.’ EOS and that little
girl that you met. yeah, they were Geordies yeah and- and the accent
EOS her name was **anon** EOS and I said to you, ‘no, it’s **anon**’,
and you got really angry, ‘no, her name’s **anon**!’ you know, and-
she said, ‘her name’s **anon**’, I said, ‘Natalie **anon**, that’s
just the way they speak’, ‘no! **anon** her name’ EOS and you kept
calling her ‘**anon**’ EOS yeah, but you wrote to her for a while,
didn’t you? Th- that girl afterwards, didn’t you? but that- but you
wouldn’t go anywhere without that book EOS you really- and then EOS
no, **anon** wasn’t a reader EOS wrestling, he’s into- now he’s a- now
he’s a petrol head, isn’t he? he loves his car now, but he was- he
always loved Maths **anon**, didn’t he, ? has he asked you for this
one yet? I remember that time he had- was going to his parents evening
and they- was it the History teacher or something had- had pulled a
fist at him or something, he was messing about in class not remember
EOS and he said to me- i- it wasn’t long before he left, and- and he
said to me before we went, before me and your Mum went, and he said
erm, ‘will you have a word with the history teacher Dad’, so I said,
‘yeah, why? What’s wrong?’, ‘it’s only he pulled a fa- erm, he pulled
a fist at me in class’, I says, ‘why? What were you doing?’ he says,
‘oh, we was only messing about’ EOS so I said, ‘you’re lucky,’ I said,
‘cos when I was at school, they wouldn’t have pulled a fist at you,
they’d have used it’ EOS you know, you’d have got a board duster on
your head or a piece of chalk straight between the eyes EOS you know,
but- and- and when I went up to the school and saw the History
teacher, I said, ‘I believe you’ve had a bit of trouble with **anon**’
he says, ‘oh yeah,’ he said, ‘i- it was nothing really’ he said, ‘I
got a bit frustrated’, I says, ‘well listen,’ I says, ‘you’ve got my
backing,’ I said, ‘if he’s out of hand’, I said, ‘if it was up EOS
‘you could take him out and cane him, the way I had when I was at EOS
you know, cos it never did me any harm EOS and all of this molly-
coddling EOS but, I remember being at school, I was what, must’ve been
twelve years old, so it would’ve been the first year in **anon** EOS
and- and- like, you- you’re just kids messing around in the school EOS
and the headmaster, I mean I was only- only just average sized kid,
you know, just spun me round and slapped me full in the face, in front
EOS ‘stop messing around!’, and you’re just left there, ringing EOS
you know, and it’s just, ‘what’s happened?’, no, but you don’t go home
and tell your Mum or Dad that it’s happened because you’d get another
one, you know EOS ‘you should behave’ EOS well we had that- that one
teacher and erm, we used to have to give school fund every week, used
to have to g- I think it was five pence or something like that EOS and
it was supposed to- with it being a catholic school it was supposed to
be- oh God, they always did that, we always got them silly boxes we
used to have to make up and take EOS you know, and sisters- yeah EOS
yeah, sisters of the poor and sisters of the dead and EOS all of that
like sisters of everything EOS and any saints day, anything to get any
money off you EOS yeah, cash based religion EOS Catholicism, you know
EOS erm I can’t remember what I was saying now EOS oh that teacher,
yeah and he- and he was our- our sports teacher and this- this is how
things have changed, now this- this teacher would’ve got arrested
these days for what he used to do to us, I mean, you’re like twelve,
thirteen years old, and you’re going through that puberty stage, yeah,
and- and when you come out of gym nobody- nobody wants to- you’ve
gotta go for a shower, but nobody wants to strip off EOS you know, and
he used to make everybody strip off, nobody could go in in the shorts
or anything like that like everybody tried to do, but he’d- he’d come
in the shower himself, with a wet towel, and he’d be hitting you with
the towel and EOS honestly, he’d be hitting you with the towel, but
then, talk about a bit on the pervy side really, the- you know the
foot shower EOS he’d- each week he’d choose one kid to wash his feet
honestly EOS you know, and this- this was a Catholic school and this
was our gym EOS but the- the- the same guy was erm, our form teacher
for one year, and if you didn’t bring in school fund or if you got in
trouble in his EOS he had a dice and he’d roll the dice EOS and
whatever it landed on, that was how many canes you got EOS and if it
landed on six you got a chance to roll it again EOS yeah, you
definitely got some but it was- but if six came up again, you got a
six EOS shout at somebody EOS dead tight pants and a camel toe EOS
yeah, ‘when I was a lad’ EOS ‘when I was a lad’ so EOS oh, well the-
there was no P-C when I was at school w- when- w- started at school,
remember I told you that, when I slipped off that corrugated steel EOS
I’d ripped all the skin off me fingers, and I went into school the
next day, with plasters all over me hands EOS and the k- the teacher
caned me on the same hand EOS now that was- I was about- I was
probably about nine or ten when that EOS you know, and- and- and they
were wicked, and we used to have this- this one teacher, **anon** you
know the three foot ruler they used to use on the- on the board EOS
that was used for whacking you on the head with EOS and we had- we had
another one, **anon**, and he had a whip and he had- it had a wooden
handle, about so big, yeah, and then it was like- it was like a belt
about, such a length, there, and he used to hit you with that and it
used to wrap round your hand and come back EOS and flick you, it was-
he was a nasty piece of work him EOS and then this- this guy called
**anon** he- he was erm, he was really nice, this- I was probably
about eight years old, and he’d erm, he’d been caught in the erm, the
retreat from Dunkirk EOS erm, and he’d been on the beaches for like
three or four days waiting to get a boat back home in the Second World
War, and erm, he was shell EOS and- but he was a really- a really,
really nice teacher and dead tolerant and everything, but if you upset
him EOS ah, he used to, and he’d boil, and his face would be red-
yeah, and he’d go really, really crazy, like everything’d come out of
him, you know, but he was- there used to be like about thirty-six kids
in a class EOS yeah, every Friday night, before we went home, or every
Friday afternoon, he’d buy the whole class a bar of chocolate each EOS
he was- he was great, he was really nice, but he used to have this-
like this- this- this bit of erm schizophrenia sort of spate you know,
that he’d- he just- he’d just switch completely EOS and he could be a
l- yeah, could be a little bit scary EOS oh you- she loved you,
because you loved history EOS why cos- cos he pilots trolleys round
tescos does he now EOS oh sh- was she the one that was dead chuffed
cos you had a copy of ‘mein kampf’ yeah EOS and decided Hitler was a
nutter EOS and put it away EOS yeah, cos what- that lad used to say,
‘beam me up swotty’ didn’t he, did you ever keep any animals in the
class at school, did you ever? oh, we- we had- we had a hamster when I
was in primary school, we had budgies, and we had two rabbits, but we
used to- we used to use the rabbits as an excuse to get out of class
EOS and they used to stink in the back of the classroom, because they-
they were basically belonged to me and this other lad, they kept the
hutch at the side of where we were EOS and rabbits, ah EOS God, they
smell something awful EOS and these never used to get cleaned out, we
used to take them for a walk in the yard so we could get out of
lessons EOS we had a big yard, when we had this hamster, there was
this lad in our class called **anon**, we used to call him **anon**,
and he was EOS you know, these big and daft kids EOS he was a real one
of these big and daft kids, and the hamster got out EOS and I said,
‘hey **anon**, it’s there, behind you’, and he stands back, and he
crunches its head under its foot EOS and this hamsters like EOS yeah ,
yeah, its teeth had gone through its- you know they have them big
teeth EOS and its teeth had gone through the bottom jaw bit yeah, so
we- we took it out and a- asked the teacher if we could go and bury
it, so we took it out and buried it while it was still alive EOS it
wa- it just wasn’t quite dead, you know EOS yeah, well, I don’t know,
but it was starting to rain so we thought we’d better get on with it
EOS you’ve got to bury it EOS well, when we had- when we had the
budgie we used to- cos we used to get them to stay in at dinner time,
cos there was always a reason with us for having a pet in the class,
it was either EOS to get out of the class or to get in the class when
the teachers weren’t there, and the budgie, we used to be able to get
in straight after dinner because, ‘let the budgie out for a bit of
exercise while the other kids all-’ EOS no, they don’t, well we had-
we had budgies, we kept budgies when you was a kid M; you know, all
they did was eat the picture frames, weren’t they, budgies and
cockatiels, you know EOS but erm, the classrooms when I was a kid,
they were huge, the EOS with really high ceilings and you couldn’t
catch this bloody budgie, cos the- the teacher used to have to have
one of these- these poles for opening the top windows the- you know-
and erm, we couldn’t catch this budgie so we used to squirt it with
water pistols until it got soaked and it couldn’t fly EOS and then-
then throw and old curtain over it and wrap it up in a curtain and
stick it back in the cage EOS it was really well looked after, you
know EOS one of- one of the cleaners took it home in the end before it
just fell off the perch EOS **anon**, the white one, yeah EOS it was
looking for lice EOS was it rabbits you had? And you called yours the
traditional **anon** EOS and **anon** called his **anon** EOS
**anon**, and **anon** EOS trying to catch it, yeah EOS think the dogs
are getting a bit restless aren’t they, they’re at the EOS well I used
to- I used to collect like frogs and newts and what have you when I
was a k- cos it- that was the kind of things we did, we’d- go up to, I
mean they call it ‘Black Harry’ up here now, don’t they, but we used
to call it dead railway at the side of **anon** golf club EOS there’s-
there’s three lakes there EOS that, at the time, we called them the
three sisters, and there was a stream that was part of the old railway
that had been taken up years ago that- that used to run up the side of
it EOS we used to get all the frogs and newts there, well I had erm, a
demi jar, and it was about a- a gallon sized demi jar, you know, with
really thick glass EOS and we lived on the flats over here in Salford,
and then I had, all I was great at keeping pairs, believe me, we had-
had all of these frogs in it, or newts which it was, but, they were on
the veranda, in the sun, in this jar, and they had no air getting out
for water, and they boiled EOS because the water was come- because the
sun was coming through this jar, and there was only like that much
water in it, you know EOS and they boiled alive in it EOS and I’ll
come back and they’re all upside down, dead EOS oh yeah, she didn’t
like anything like that, no EOS we used to walk, yeah, or bikes, not
like you lot, you know EOS ‘where’s the car?’ you know EOS no, we used
to walk EOS we we- we didn’t have any bloody money, we were- you know,
we were EOS we didn’t have a- you wanted to go somewhere, you walked
EOS I mean we used to go on an expedition to **anon** EOS you know,
we- we’d go, we- we were all kids EOS yeah, yeah we were all kids and-
and we’d have these Second World War water canteens EOS and- and- and
we’d be going on our adventures, we- we were going to, you know, we
were off to fight the Second World War on the woods, you EOS cos
that’s what we got brought up on, it’s- I mean, we used- yeah EOS I
mean we were, I mean the kids now, the- they’re nothing to what we EOS
we were absolute little sods EOS I mean we used to have full scale
battles for bonfire wood EOS would, cos every- cos what- when we were
kids, where we lived, there was loads of crofts all over the place,
and that was cos we were so close to the docks during the war EOS
these are all bombsites, so you’d have a- a row of terraced houses,
and four or five houses in the middle’d be missing, and there’s just
be a croft EOS where a bomb had just hit that and the rest of the
street was okay EOS and these were all over the place, and wherever
there was one of these, the kids in that area, that was their bonfire
spot EOS so we used to have raids and raid the others EOS and nick
there wood but when I- I say raids, it wasn’t just all like, charging
and shouting and what have you, we’re lobbing bricks at one another,
throwing bricks, and we used to have bin lids as shields EOS honestly,
cos I had my head split open three times EOS and- and in them days, I
mean i- if a kid gets his head split open now, it’s off to the
hospital and EOS have a cat scan and, whatever else, you know EOS no,
know what I mean? your Nanna’d just look at it, you know, bathe it,
‘oh, you’re alright, go on’ EOS yeah, yeah, so I probably had me
brains mashed at some time or other and it was just EOS just part of
growing up EOS no, that we’d- we’d- we’d played on the demolition as
kids EOS when they were pulling all the old terraced houses down, now
if they’re bringing any- if they’re pulling anything down, there’s a
bloody big secure fence around it and the kids can’t go in EOS yeah,
well we used to be walking cos they’d- they’d strip all- all the wood
out of them, they’d strip all the- the floorboards out of them, and
just leave the joists EOS and we’d be upstairs, maybe two, three
stories high, walking along these joists with nothing- and- and that
was just part of it, that was- part of what we did, that was part of
growing up EOS you know, but we were- I mean what the kids do these
days was nothing- and I mean all this asbo rubbish, and all that lot,
we would’ve been getting them all the time EOS we were absolute little
swines we were EOS well what I- I don’t think EOS we weren’t naughty
so much as we never caused any trouble at home, you never caused- y-
you basically, you didn’t shit on your own doorstep EOS for want of a
better description, you didn’t erm, but there was- yeah, there was
always a group of us, and that’s all we had to play EOS you know, I
mean, the- I remember there being a batman craze when I was about
what, probably about six or seven, it was- it was the original batman
series where it was all ‘kapow’ and ‘kazam’ and all this lot and-
‘Batman and Robin, the boy wonder’, you know, and erm, we were mad on
EOS so the whole estate, you’d have like, sixty, seventy kids, all
with a lone ranger mask, cos that’s all we could afford for a couple
of pence from the paper shop, and a curtain tied round you EOS you
know, as your cloak y- your batarang, or was it the bat rope, no the
bat rope was a coat hanger on a piece of string EOS and yo- you’d be
throwing it over walls and trying to walk up the wall like batman did
EOS like that, you know and that’s what we had EOS not having none of
that, o EOS no, we had none of that, we had a- we didn’t even have the
right mask, it was the lone ranger mask EOS you know, and that- that-
that’s what we had EOS yeah, yeah, and everybody’d be running round
going ‘batman, de, de, de, de, de, de, de, de, de’ EOS do you mind if
I smoke? you got ashtray Natalie **anon**? well, when yous- when yous
were kids I had the shop so you used to- you used to get everything
you wanted, didn’t you, you’d- you’d come down for Halloween EOS and
it’d be, you’d just choose from what was there EOS and get everything,
and then your Mum’d take you trick or treating or EOS they called it
to EOS you remember them girls when we had the shop, or were you too
young to remember that, who, you kept coming in the shop during that
holiday and, ‘can I have a bottle of lemonade, can I have a bottle
of-’ EOS ‘lucozade, can I have a bag of crisps, can I have some
sweets’, and I was saying to your Mum, I was saying, ‘what’s- what’s
going on with Natalie **anon** here, she- she’s eating an awful lot of
stuff, she’s not normally like this’, and that- that older girl was
sending you in EOS saying, ‘go and get this off your Dad, and go and
get that off your EOS and there’s a lay by isn’t there, yeah EOS and
fluff out your pockets, and- yeah EOS but I remember that girl though,
cos I- her Nanna was a real good customer in the shop EOS and when I-
I told her Nanna about it, cos I came round and I- these girls were
sending you into the shop, and her Nanna- her Nanna had a walking
stick EOS and she battered her all the way home with this walking
stick EOS because she’d been doing that sending you into the shop EOS
God, that was rough down there wasn’t it? Where that shop was, that
was really rough, yeah EOS no, no Beirut EOS like they did with
Ordsall, yeah EOS erm, if- if you go down **anon**, then you go down
**anon**, it’s all nice new buildings all the way down both of them-
and Beirut in the middle EOS you know, so people buy in it, don’t they
EOS even though what’s behind them EOS ‘media city’ or something
they’re calling it aren’t they, yeah EOS The Lowry? That was the docks
EOS that was, I mean, when I was a kid, I mean, all the big ships used
to come up there, and- and the Trafford swing bridge, that used to
turn quite often, cos when we used to go to the matches, go watching
EOS quite often you’d be waiting to cross over while the bridge turned
and a big ship went through EOS cos the ships come up from just past
the Mersey were they started digging the ship canal, right into
Salford docks EOS cos Trafford park was one of the biggest industrial
areas in Europe EOS but there’s nothing there now EOS and apartments
that are empty EOS but yous didn’t- yous didn’t get up to half the
things, did I- I told you about that time we were riding on top of the
lifts didn’t I? yeah the caretaker on that block of flats, me and my
mate EOS yeah, the controls were on the top of the lift and people
were able to get into the life and push the button EOS and then we
were able to override it on the top, so they’d push seven, and we’d
take them to two EOS and then, ‘what the bloody hells wrong with this
lift’, and they’d push seven again and we’d take them to the ground
floor EOS I can’t understand why they have that EOS I can’t understand
why they have that, ‘doors closing’ I mean, cos if you’re blind you
can hear it, if you’re deaf you can see it, and if you’ve got all your
faculties you know the bloody doors are shutting don’t you EOS so I-
‘doors are closing’ EOS ‘doors are closing’, I was telling **anon**
about when they were refurbishing erm, Victoria station in Manchester
EOS did I ever tell you about the- the row of erm, portable toilets
that they put in there, never tell you about that? when we were kids,
I was about thirteen, fourteen, and we went up there, and they’re re-
redoing all the- and the- they’d closed the toilets down and they’d
put this row of portable toilets in well we found out you could go
round the back of them, and you could flush them from the back EOS so
we used to wait until people went into the toilet, got comfortable,
and then flush it on them EOS ‘what the hell’s that’ you know EOS but
we were behind and they didn’t- they- they didn’t know that you could
get behind them people, and then they’d go out and they’d be soaking
and what have you, somebody else’d come in, flush it again on them,
you know EOS we had a great afternoon