 one, two, three EOS yep, that’s fine EOS one, two, three EOS when
you’re ready EOS oh super, we’re on, we’re off and running EOS so
we’ve got all these things just to discuss then? EOS that should be
good, okay, let’s- let’s start with erm, with- EOS what’s your best
memory from when you were young Steph **anon**? EOS gosh, that’s a
hard one to begin with EOS my best memory from when I was young EOS
can you think of anything funny that happened to you? EOS not funny,
no I’m r- I’m rubbish with a- my memory EOS shall I tell you what one
of my funny things was? EOS you’re best or funny memory, go on, EOS
when erm, I fell down all the steps at Blackpool going onto erm, the
beach, some parts of Blackpool where it’s quite steep from sort of
the, where the promenade is EOS and you sort of go down quite a lot of
steps EOS and the way, sort of, the tide comes in, cos it’s quite a
strong tide at Blackpool, isn’t it, there’d quite often at the bottom
of the steps be quite big pools, and I can remember being really, it’s
funny now but it wasn’t at the time EOS but I can remember being
really, you know, dressed up for the holiday with new shorts and a
nice tee-shirt and everything, and went racing down these steps, and
they were like wooden s- I can’t remember whether they were wooden or
stone, but anyway, got towards the bottom and I slipped, and I went
skidding and this puddle at the bottom was quite deep actually, cos
obviously it was only sand, so it could wash away quite easily EOS I
can remember sort of slipping into it all EOS and, it was like, bit
muddy as well, not just sort of nice clean sand EOS and I remember
everyone looking at me, and me Dad picking me up and I was crying me
eyes out a- EOS ah, they had to take me back to the hotel EOS oh, not
good EOS I can remember a scary moment when I was younger, with me Dad
driving when we’re on our way to Wales, you can imagine like, there
was seven in a car EOS well, we had one of those like vans, you know,
that you used to sit EOS at the back of EOS it was a little sort of t-
with a, erm, like a transit van but with- with seats in and well, up
to the hilt with luggage EOS c- going- dest- to the Wales for the
caravan and it was in the days when obviously, there’s no motorway, it
was all back roads EOS and tiny little villages you had to go through,
so me Dad decides to sort of like, ‘oh, I think I might go back this
way, might be a shortcut’ can imagine, we’re going down a- and it was
just the sheerest hill you have ever seen, and it- oh God, I- it
wasn’t- it was really scary honestly, it was just- it was just me
Mum’s like looking out, the side of the front, EOS it was just like a
sheer drop, he’d gone down this strange road, don’t know why he did,
he thought it was a village EOS set to the village, and it wasn’t, it
one of these country little lanes that just- but the road was just so,
it was just steep like that it- you could hear him on the brakes
going, EOS ah God, it was so- it’s funny now EOS scary, it was scary
at the time EOS yeah, well that’s like that one of mine, that- EOS
yeah, oh it- it was really funny though EOS yeah that’s- so he didn’t
go that way again though EOS you should’ve heard me mother EOS I do
remember that journey going to Wales EOS that day yeah, that was a bit
scary going down that EOS really, re- he managed to do it fortunately
but, didn’t go that way EOS I wonder where that was then EOS I don’t
know it- I EOS Ruelt or somewhere like that EOS it was so- I was y- I
was so young, I really wouldn’t remember EOS but yeah, it was do you
know like all the old Flint, and you have to go through all the old
EOS yeah, bet it was- EOS villages like that EOS it was before one of
those, I ah, I couldn’t- I couldn’t believe how steep this little tiny
road he decided to take us down was EOS it was funny EOS and the
brakes on the cars weren’t that good in those days either, not like
now EOS but it was a big- I mean, it was like a big tranny van thing
you know, with all us kids in the back with all the lugga- it was so
fu- I don’t know how he managed it to be honest- I don’t know why we
just EOS and it was like turning down, no, not very nice but that was-
it was- it’s f- like as you say, it- f- it’s funny isn’t it how you
EOS how you think back, you think, that was really scary at the time
and EOS now you think, how funny, what th- how EOS how funny that was
EOS when you think about it now EOS and what, I think this is a good
one, what kind of games did you play? And what- I bet we played
similar sorts of things though EOS cause it was in the street wasn’t
it, just playing EOS in the street, yeah, we used to play like
hopscotch, which was like the favourite one EOS wasn’t it and, ticky-
hit and- EOS or kingy as we used to call it cos we used to play it
with a ball EOS used to chuck a ball at somebody EOS and if you got
them then obviously then they were it then yeah EOS and elastics, I
used to love elastics EOS oh we used to play that, we used to take
those to school, cos you just used to buy l- big piece of elastic EOS
on a card, and just sort of un- unravel it didn’t you and then just
tie the ends and everyone’d just be skipping EOS just be skipping
along yeah EOS yeah, I used to love elastics, yeah EOS yeah, we used
to go to the park and play rounders a lot, everybody on the street
just loadsa kids, cos there was loads of you EOS just like on **anon**
you know, and EOS you tended to play with the kids on your street EOS
so like there were kids who all played together on the next street EOS
and then occasionally you’d see them, but whenever you went anywhere
you went with the kids who were like on your street EOS yeah, you
didn’t really integrate really did you? EOS was that **anon** you used
to go across to? EOS we used to go across **anon** EOS either to
**anon** or to **anon**, which was at the back near the EOS right, I
don’t know that one EOS but yeah, it was **anon** more than anything
and we used to play on the big field there EOS yeah cos you’re quite
close there aren’t you, to that one EOS yeah, we used to take erm, EOS
I’m trying to think, it was probably a tennis racquet, so you could
really whack the ball EOS cause like you’d be running, EOS across-
across the erm- EOS not quite rounders then EOS like the little
kiddies play area and then across the erm, bowling area, yeah, and I
used to be able to really whack it, so we used to do that, and then we
used to take erm, for the slide, cos it was quite a bit slide in
**anon** so we used to take a piece of greaseproof paper, I bet
**anon** thinks ‘God this sounds like’ EOS you know eh- sixty years
ago EOS oh yeah, you had to, yeah to, yeah EOS but you used to- did
you- do you know this? EOS you used to sort of put it on your bottom
EOS yeah, oh aye EOS used to sit on it and slide down the slide and it
made the slide go EOS so then the next person who was on it after
that, it was like EOS really, really did- EOS grease it up EOS really,
yeah, really used to grease up the erm, the side EOS so we used to do
that, and then erm, play on the erm, roundabout with a lolly stick
didn’t you, EOS it’s so dangerous at the time, cos it was all concrete
EOS oh yeah, and they dropped it and you had to pick it up as you were
on the way round, yeah EOS so, so this thing, you know like, erm, EOS
yeah, I remember that now EOS just like a roundabout that went round,
the old fashioned type, EOS yeah, thrupenny bit they was called EOS
or- or the spider even EOS yeah, the spider, we used to throw a lolly
stick and then it- somebody would be going round, they’d get their
sort of foot going and they’d run wouldn’t they and get it faster and
faster and faster like EOS and then you’d all jump on and they you
used to hang on with one side and lean down EOS and pick up as you
whizzed past, try and pick up EOS try and get the lolly stick EOS a
lolly stick and graze all you arm in the proceeds EOS no wonder I used
to have so many headaches, EOS I used to have erm, EOS that’s where
your migraines are coming from EOS loadsa headaches doing all of that,
so yeah, just loadsa time in the park really, just used to, in the
holidays EOS it was the park yeah, you just used to EOS just go out
for hours EOS and of course you didn’t have mobile phones and things
so EOS but, I think your parents were glad to get rid of you really
weren’t EOS oh yeah, but I had to be in at a certain time EOS
otherwise I’d really get told off EOS you know, it was like half past
nine and EOS if you’re not in you’re in trouble EOS I don’t remember
going out much in the evening though EOS to be honest EOS do you not?
Oh yeah, we- EOS now whether we did and it was just summer and you
just had, like, you say, you had to be back at a certain time EOS
yeah, she didn’t like us out being after dark EOS but yeah, summer
time EOS but during the day in the school holidays you could- EOS oh
during the day yeah, just anytime yeah EOS just take a bottle of
something to drink EOS just came back when- when we were hungry like
you do EOS yeah, that’s right EOS yeah, ‘feed me, I’m hungry now’ yeah
EOS I don’t know many stories about my grandparents though, EOS I
didn’t really know my grandparents very well, cos- EOS well I didn’t
know one Granddad cos he died before me Mum got married EOS her Dad
died before she got married EOS so in terms of good stories EOS I just
know me Granddad was dead grumpy on me Dad’s side EOS he used to call-
yeah EOS he- he- oh God, yeah, he used to just come, and he used to
just come in and he’d- he would say, ‘hello’ you know, like, you
haven’t got like- like the kids of today, they haven’t got the
relationship with EOS grandparents that we had, they were just these
old people that just turned up and you just thought, ‘oh, okay’ EOS
and he’d sit down, and then he’d- he’d just say, ‘well, does anybody
want one of these or what’ and it’s like, you know, y- your EOS and
they’re stinking of mothballs out of his pocket EOS he used to always
insist you have one of his mints EOS ah, no that was me Granddad on me
Dad’s side, can just- that’s all y- I remember about him, just being
big grumpy man with smelly EOS oh right I can remember my Granddad who
lived next door to us on **anon** cos he used to put me on his
shoulders and take me to the EOS but I was- I was really young, and
then he died, he was- day- died in an accident at work EOS erm, and me
Nanna lived a bit, you know, quite a, few years longer, but not, when
I was, you know, older EOS c- I was probably probably about six then
EOS oh right, yeah EOS but I ant- but my Granddad probably EOS died
when I was about three something like that, so I have really young
memories of them EOS you have, yeah, cos my, yeah the person- the
Granddad I’m talking about, I had- was thirteen when he died EOS it’s
quite early really EOS it is it’s quite young EOS when you sort of
think about, like, sort of **anon** and yourselves, EOS with your
grandparents and the time you’ve spent with them EOS yeah, it’s a
longer time EOS and I can remember my Mum’s Mum she was very much like
Mum, she was small lady, but she had one leg longer than the other and
I can- and I can- all I can picture of her now is, erm, going through
our living room into the kitchen, and there was like a doorway, and
she just used to stand there and she was just swinging her leg back
and forth EOS she had to exercise her leg EOS cause it used to get
very stiff and very you know, EOS and- and- and ache really, more of
an ache EOS she used to have built up shoes, her shoe- her other shoe
like- was like the- the heel, bit like platforms I suppose nowadays
EOS but they- the- the- the sole and the heels were like massive EOS
and was it just on one? On- yeah EOS just one leg, EOS on one leg, mm
EOS she had one leg about four inches shorter than the other EOS and I
can just remember she used to always come to EOS the house and she use
to always s- stand in the doorway and she was always in the kitchen
doorway and leg would be swinging back and forth, back and forth, for-
for ages she’d just be stood there EOS so that’s just the memory of my
Gran that I have, it’s weird isn’t it, how you just EOS nothing really
else, we didn’t do anything with her, she just came to the house and
perhaps we had tea and- but I just can see her, stood EOS swinging her
leg EOS we- we never saw much of me Mum’s side, even if you know, it
was her Mum and me Mum’s Dad died before I was born, because me Mum
always said, ooh, they lived a long way away, you know EOS ‘oh yeah,
they li- they live a long way’ and when you think about it now, it was
only the other side of Manchester EOS but because me Mum didn’t drive
EOS yeah, it just seemed a long way EOS me Dad did have a car, there’d
be occasions when he didn’t have a car EOS I think, cos they were
older cars and if it failed its MOT or the equivalent of the MOT EOS I
think you just have to sell it, and that was it, you didn’t have a car
for a while EOS and then you saved up and you bought another one, erm,
so EOS me Dad had a car but he’d be using that for work anyway, erm,
and me Mum didn’t drive, and then I suppose, she then got sort of a
part time job when we were at school, so I suppose they just didn’t
have the time and it- EOS no, they probably didn’t EOS you know, it
would’ve been probably two buses EOS to get there EOS it’s a long-
long journey EOS but erm, so yeah, I don’t think it was that far away,
we’d just jump in the car and drive there now EOS but to them it was
sort of EOS major sort of EOS day out really EOS so we just seemed to
see more of my Dad’s side of the family because they all lived in
Stretford EOS or Sale, you know, they were all sort of like within the
vicinity if you know what I mean EOS I think you find that anyway
don’t you, some, more often EOS yeah, so you tend to sort of find
that, and I’ve only one recollection of me Mum’s Mum erm, and again, I
must’ve been really, really, young and I can remember she kept saying,
‘she’s gonna hurt herself, she’s gonna hurt herself, grab hold of her’
I think at- she must’ve had a cellar and the door must’ve been open
EOS and I just have this vague recollection of seeing steps going down
EOS downstairs which I’d never seen before cos we didn’t have a cellar
at our house, so I just must’ve been mesmerised by these steps EOS by
the steps EOS and possibly they didn’t have- she didn’t have a door on
it EOS and she was trying to keep me away, and I can remember her
saying something to me Mum like, I think these were her words, ‘you’ve
got your hands full with her’ EOS ‘ooh, you’ve got your hands full
with that one’ EOS I must’ve been a bit EOS you must’ve done EOS a bit
hyper or something like that EOS did you ever get hurt whilst you were
playing as a kid? Well, we’ve covered that haven’t we in terms of
like, the games you used to play EOS yeah, I did get hurt beca- I
remember- I remember playing erm, EOS well, I- I think it was just
something I- I was doing meself, it wasn’t a game that any- I had erm,
a broom pole, you know the hand- the- the brush bit had come off the
broom EOS so I just had th- the pole bit, and I remember rolling it, I
don’t know why, I just remember rolling it in front of me and then
deciding to jump over it and of course, in my haste to try and jump
over it, I’d rolled it, and I didn’t clear it, and I put me foot on it
EOS and of course, rolled with it EOS and I just remember going right
back and banging EOS my head so hard on the concrete, I can remember
doing that, such a lump came up EOS but I remember that’s- that’s the
only time I’ve really hurt myself, I’ve never like broken any bones,
EOS I’ve never- touch wood, I’ve never broken a leg, broken an arm EOS
you know, had anything in plaster, EOS or you know, slashed meself or
anything EOS or cuts and bruises, I just remember, I don’t know how
old- in fact it was before we moved into Stretford so I must’ve only
been about six, five or six EOS I just remembered it, but isn’t it
funny cos I can remember that though cos it blooming EOS you can
remember that, and going backwards and really banging your EOS yeah,
and really banging me head, yeah and cos like, you know, me crying me
eyes out, coming running in, ‘what’ve you done, what’ve you done’ EOS
so of course, like, you know, lying there and then she thinks I’ve got
concussion then, EOS ‘you mustn’t go to sleep’ you know, ‘you must
stay awake’ EOS ‘wake up, stay awake, stay awake’ I can remember,
**anon**, erm being knocked out by a swing EOS me Mum was with us, and
erm, she’d taken us- she’d obviously taken us to the park and **anon**
was probably about EOS about three, something like that, so I’m three
years older than her, so I’m six EOS and erm, I can just picture it
now, where the swings were and she just ran, and a swing that
somebody- a kiddy was on came forward EOS mm, just forward EOS and
sort of whacked her on her forehead and knocked- literally knocked her
out, she- she EOS she would’ve done, yeah EOS passed out with it and I
can re- Mum- member me Mum sort of really shouting and picking her up
and like, holding her in her arms, and running erm, onto **anon** cos
there’s a doc- there’s still a doctor’s surgery there anyway EOS but
there was one that backed onto the park EOS and she ran out of the
gates, and I’m running after her and she’s going, ‘come on, keep up’
EOS and she just went flying into the doctor’s surgery EOS I think
she’d come round by that time, EOS but she’s still got the scar
**anon** EOS if you look, a very little scar just on her head where
the things EOS where it’s hit her EOS yeah, cos they were wood weren’t
they in the main EOS they were wood, yeah EOS sort of wooden seats, so
I think it just sort of EOS yeah, they were quite heavy EOS swung out,
so, yeah, EOS just caught her EOS I can remember that being really,
really scary EOS I can imagine EOS did you ever get into trouble for
something at school? EOS get into trouble EOS I was quite good really
EOS no, I was- I was good unfortunately EOS I can remember getting
into trouble- EOS we did play truant once, it was our **anon** doing
EOS ‘let’s- let’s have the day off’ and we got caught straight away we
got back EOS it didn’t- it didn’t work somehow EOS think, ‘you know
what, we won’t- we won’t do that again’ EOS so who caught you? EOS
I’d- I think **anon** must’ve written a note that wasn’t very good I
don’t know EOS I don’t think she’s a very good forger of the erm, the
old signature EOS didn’t pass then EOS so erm, no, we’d gone into
town, we’d spent the day in town, I don’t know why, she just decided
‘let’s not go to school’, so erm, so we didn’t, s- no, but I- yeah, we
got called into erm, the headmistresses office so it wasn’t good EOS I
didn’t get totally told off, I mean it was our erm, first offence EOS
erm, it was a bit scary so she made me go to the teacher EOS that I
was in the class of next, you know, when I was going, and then erm,
she says, ‘you’re gonna have to go and explain now, to the teacher
now, why you weren’t in school yesterday’ and it was dead embarrassing
cos it was the- it had to be the teacher that you fancied didn’t it
EOS it was the Biology teacher EOS is that- what EOS and everybody
fancied the Biology teacher EOS he was lovely and he was my form
teacher at the time and I had to go an explain to him why I wasn’t in
school EOS the previous day, I didn’t EOS oh, that’s awful isn’t it
EOS I didn’t, I- I- I cowered out of that I just said, ‘ooh, I’ve been
to see the headmistress, I’ve gotta come join the class now’ EOS ahh,
I can remember getting into- EOS but I wasn’t, yeah- I wasn’t n- I
wasn’t a troublemaker EOS no, I can remember, only two things really,
one of them was Sunday school, and it wasn’t about being naughty it
was about turning something down that I was asked to do because I was
shy and it- I was asked to be Mary in the nativity play at Sunday
school EOS and it just scared me so much EOS wa- having to walk down
the aisle, cos that- they always did it, not erm, we used to go to
Sunday school in the church hall, but the actual nativity play always
took place in the church EOS and I can remember watching it meself and
Mary and Joseph would walk down the aisle, and I can remember
thinking, ‘I’m not walking down the aisle with a boy’ EOS ‘holding a
baby doll holding Jesus’ EOS and the- just the thought of it EOS what,
the starring part as well EOS yeah, it scared me so much EOS so I just
said, no I didn’t wanna do it, thinking nothing of it EOS but cos Mum
and Dad also went to church as well, and knew the Sunday school
teachers, they told her EOS the following, you know, sh- or she told
them the following week, they said, ‘ooh, we’ve asked Shona **anon**
to be erm, Mary and she’s- she’s said no’ EOS and I can remember when
I got home, Mum and Dad went mad with me EOS they said, ‘fancy turning
that down you had- you could’ve had the EOS I said, ‘but I didn’t want
the starring role, I-’ in fact all I kept thinking about all the time
was wanting to be an angel, cos I wanted somebody to do those big
wings EOS and put them on me back, and I fancied being- cos it was all
nice, and white, and pretty wasn’t it, and so Mary just had a- EOS the
angels? Yeah, and they didn’t really do much, they just stood there,
looking pretty EOS Mary had a horrible blue sort of, like, tea-towely
looking dress on EOS and, you know, Mary, dark blue, stripes, Angel,
white, wings EOS yeah, strange thing on your head EOS no-one’s- I
wanted to be the an- I EOS it- you can see why EOS yeah, I wouldn’t-
and I wouldn’t’ve minded being erm, Gabriel, something like that EOS
so did they think you were very ungrateful then and not- EOS they
thought I was really ungrateful because they’d actually chosen me cos,
you know, they thought I could EOS carry it off and EOS so I can
remember my Mum and Dad really telling me off, and then the other time
I can remember being in trouble was, erm, when I was at grammar
school, and we erm, rather than go out through the doors, we d- opened
all the windows and climbed out EOS not realising that, as you climbed
out, it was only our first year, the erm staff room was sort of at
right angles to where the main EOS so of course all the teachers EOS
were sat eating their lunch EOS saw these legs come out of the window
EOS oh, good Lord EOS and we all climb out onto the tennis- you know
where- cos the tennis courts were just below EOS cause it was a really
long walk round EOS and down onto the field EOS so you’d just taken a
shortcut EOS so we thought, ‘we’ll take a shortcut’ so erm, yeah I can
remember having to restack, you know all those stackable chairs EOS
they used to be really heavy with like canvas seats in those days EOS
oh yeah, and those iron legs EOS with the- with the metal frames EOS
we had to erm, there was probably about four, five of us who had done
it and they got us all in, so we had a detention, and we had to
restack all the chairs in the hall that- EOS so, but that was it, so
it was nothing particularly exciting EOS we’re not really naughty EOS
but erm, but no I was really, really embarrassed and I can remember my
friend who also did it at, you know, the same time and erm, we were
sort of told off really EOS erm, at registration I think in the
afternoon EOS you know, lunch, after lunch, erm, I think we were in
the, our classroom then, or form room was the music room and I can
remember we were up there, with sort of, one of the music teachers,
and she said, ‘five girls who will remain nameless’ EOS so I’m looking
up thinking, ‘I’m not going to look guilty, cos they won’t know who it
is, so I’m just’ EOS and me friend was at the side of me, who’d also
been caught, and she just sat there crying her eyes out EOS I thought,
‘well, you’re making it really obvious’ EOS cause she’s going blowing
her nose EOS ah, guilty as charged EOS but yeah we were- we were
really embarrassed that we’d been naughty, whereas you know, probably
now, EOS kids’d just think, ‘oh, I’m just climbing out the window,
wasn’t EOS but really mortifed the fact that we’d done something
wrong, whether it was because it was the first year and we didn’t know
everyone EOS and you didn’t like to be thought that you were gonna be
like that EOS you just think, ‘oh, I’m scarred now, they’re gonna just
think I’m like that all the time’ EOS least teachers, hmm EOS your
hometown well, I’ve certainly not lived anywhere else, you’ve not have
you lived in Manchester EOS not in town wise, no, Manchester, yeah EOS
well, where were your parents from Steph **anon** EOS were they both
from Manchester? EOS yeah, me Dad used to, yeah, he was from **anon**
erm, and me Mum was from down South, **anon** way EOS oh was she? I
didn’t know that EOS we- yeah, she didn’t live there very long EOS she
come up North EOS come up North, then, yeah EOS so she met me Dad and
then they just, yeah, it was erm, **anon** they sort of settled in, so
EOS yeah yeah my Mum was from **anon** and my Dad was from EOS but
then, his family moved to **anon** cos it was posh then EOS well it
was, yeah it was a posh place to come to, yeah EOS from **anon**, cos
**anon** was low key and dirty EOS and **anon** was EOS still a suburb
then wasn’t it EOS mm oh yeah EOS it was a more well to do place to
move to EOS yeah, so me Dad’s family moved there, and I think my Dad
had just met me Mum just before they moved, and then me Mum and Dad
bought the house next door to EOS erm, my Dad’s Mum and Dad EOS so,
they were like sort of, living next door to each other EOS u- up until
fairly recently when the house had st- my Aunt- me Grandma’s house, me
Nanna’s house had stayed in the same family, it was erm, her daughter
and husband who ended up living in the house, and then me Mum had been
there for a long, long time EOS she’d been there for about forty
years, so me Mum and her sister-in- law were still living there EOS
so, all those years later EOS me Mum said, ‘and I never liked it, I
never wanted to live there’ EOS and she lived there for forty years
EOS I don’t think people sort of, tended to move did they, they sort
of tended to stay in the same house EOS not really no, we had to move
from Old Trafford cos our house was EOS so we had no choice EOS oh you
did didn’t you EOS yeah, they pulled down our houses EOS yeah, big
houses EOS big terraced houses EOS they were terraced houses yeah,
yeah, big rooms, but erm, it’s- but it wasn’t really big enough for us
because like me Mum used to use the front parlour, as it were then, as
a- a bedroom EOS so is it still just three bedroom? EOS still three
bedrooms, yeah, so it was- and with- with being like, you know, two
lads, two girls and it was a bit cramped EOS that was before **anon**
came along, **anon** came along after we moved EOS so did you- you s-
your other house, the house your Mum and Dad lived in when I met you,
did that seem a lot bigger when you got EOS it was a lot bigger, and
of course, we had the garden which was like, marvellous, you know, we
only had a little yard before EOS and the outside toilet so, to have a
bathroom and a garden, it was like a palace wasn’t it EOS it was
lovely, although it was very different, what y- how you remember the
house, it was very different when we first moved in EOS because there
was- there was two rooms EOS yeah, cos it was quite open plan, your
Mum- they’d knocked it through EOS yeah, they’d knocked down quite a
few walls, erm, when we first moved in that house it was like one of
these where you- you go through one door and you’re in- in the front
room, you go through another door and you’re in the dining area, you
go through another door and you’re in the kitchen, and then you come
back in this door, and you’re back in EOS so as kids we used to drive
my Mum mental, EOS just running round, chasing each other EOS round
and round all these doors, it was great EOS hiding from each other?
‘Where’s she gone?’ EOS just- just- just chasing EOS just- just
playing ticky-hit round the doors EOS she’d go mad with us EOS but it
was just so much space you know, just EOS even though the rooms were,
like- EOS I was gonna say, the rooms probably wouldn’t be that much
bigger EOS no, the room- the rooms weren’t too bad EOS but, it was
just the fact that we could- we could just utilise each room, you know
EOS before like, we were just stuck in one room in the back EOS and
when you say big rooms they were- they were- I don’t think it was
probably as big as your Mum’s perhaps EOS oh, it wasn’t, no EOS it
didn’t- it was- it would probably the same as this room EOS you know,
blocked off here but not per- EOS quite as wide EOS they- they looked
bigger from the outside than they did EOS yeah, sometimes, cos they’re
higher, EOS they’re sort of deceptive aren’t they, yeah EOS the front
bedroom was enormous, where **anon** and I had the front bedroom, and
that was a massive great big room EOS but then you’d got like erm,
smaller room at the back EOS everything’s sorta smaller after that EOS
but, it was- I mean, we were only young then so I suppose they seemed
EOS anyway to what I- I- they probably were EOS no, but we loved erm,
we loved it when we moved to Stretford, it was the bees knees then EOS
I remember getting lost though, I was supposed to- cos we’d not moved
schools at that point, and we were still at **anon** EOS there at
**anon** there and I was supposed to wait for our **anon** to come and
pick me up, I’ve probably told you this story, I had to wait for our
**anon** to bring me to the new house EOS cause it was like from
**anon** it’s a bus drive EOS quite a long way for kiddies isn’t it
EOS from **anon** to EOS when you think of it now, it’s just like five
EOS ten minutes down the road but, EOS to me it was like, you know, it
was like EOS no, it’s a long way EOS it was like an hours journey EOS
when really you only went to school like, down at the end of the
street, or round the corner didn’t you EOS exactly, yeah so of course,
I came out of school, and I’m sat there on the wall thinking, ‘ooh,
where is he’ course, when you’re a kiddy, like, five minutes is an
hour EOS so I’m thinking, ‘oh, he’s not here, he’s not- he’s gone
without me, where is he, where is he’ so I’m wandering off to the
shops, you know, on- on, erm EOS the main- the main shops where I
remembered I c- I can find me way to and I’m thinking, right, I’ve got
here, now what do I do’ I hadn’t a clue where I was, I didn’t know
where I’ve got to EOS I couldn’t- I didn’t know how to get home, I
knew where I lived, EOS she’d given me the address to write, put in me
pocket EOS hadn’t a clue how to get there, so I go in the shop, ‘I’m
lost, I’m EOS ‘me brother’s not come for me’ EOS ‘I don’t know where I
am’, I’m crying me eyes out, this poor woman in this shop being like
‘what’ EOS so of course, they phone up the police, don’t they EOS so I
get to go home in a police car EOS ooh, I didn’t know EOS about that’s
one thing you’ve never told me EOS shocking, shocking, no, it’s
shocking no, I hadn’t a clue where I was but I could tell him where I
lived so, there we are EOS I’m in the police car, taking me home get
to the front door, and our **anon** gets a right bollocking off me Mum
EOS ‘why didn’t you wait for your daughter st- your sister to come out
of school?’, ‘I did, I did, I did, she wasn’t there, I got there and
she wasn’t there’, so funny EOS so, no, we kinda both got told off EOS
but he- it was c- shame, cos he was only like, you know, he was only
f- four years older than me EOS I was gonna say, it’s ea- it’s easy to
forget isn’t it when you’re a EOS cause that was it, I’d be only what,
I’d be seven when I moved EOS so really that’s a ch- it is still a
child, isn’t it, seven, wandering around the streets on your own EOS
oh God it is, yeah EOS and he was, s- seven, eight, n- he was only-
he’d only be eleven, so he wasn’t much older EOS yeah, so it’s still
only young isn’t it EOS it’s a big responsibility then for an eleven
year old to try and get EOS it’s easy to sort of, forget these things
EOS it was so funny, like, yeah, got, yeah, got sent home, so I- I
always think now that’s why I have a fear of getting lost EOS because
I remember being EOS in that place, not knowing where the heck I was,
and it was- is- EOS it’s just a horrible feeling of just oh EOS what
do I do EOS where am I, you know, I- EOS I don’t know how to get from
here to where I need to be, and I’m still like that, if I’m in the car
and I’m EOS driving and I take a wrong turn I panic something terrible
EOS oh it must- yeah, EOS it must me associated with that, yeah EOS
I’ve cried before now when I’ve come off the motorway at the wrong EOS
where am I going, and I’m crying me eyes out, cos I don’t know where
EOS and I’ve to find meself back on meself, scare meself to death EOS
oh right, no I- you see I don’t get scared I just think, EOS I’m
useless, absolutely useless EOS carry on a bit further and it’ll all
make sense EOS and I’m sure I’ll find where I am, and you usually do
don’t you, y- cos you sort of think- you see another sign or whatever
EOS probably do yeah, well I- I do anyway, if I do go off the beaten
track, you do kind of- but I just EOS yeah, but that’s probably why,
probably goes back to then doesn’t it EOS yeah, I just have this, such
a fear of having to go anywhere on my own and then not being able to
find meself where I need to go if I do EOS sort of take the wrong
turning, or EOS get on the wrong train, that f- that’s our **anon**
you see, when we went to Liverpool we got on the- we went- well, we
got to Liverpool, we were supposed to be going to Wales we got on the
EOS we were supposed to be going to Wales and we get on this train and
we end up in Liverpool so again, that was like, ‘oh God, where are we,
why are we here’ EOS **anon** at it, ‘don’t worry, don’t worry, we’ll
find our way, we’ll find our way’ EOS ‘well sort it, we’ll sort it’
EOS but it’s again, it’s like I’m in the middle of this place
thinking, ‘oh my God’ ‘well, what train do we get now’ EOS yeah, well
you sound as though you were a bit more adventurous and had to go
further, whereas I was always just around Stretford if you know what I
mean EOS didn’t really go very far EOS and I think, looking at that
one there- EOS you’re making up for it now you see there EOS making up
for it now things about, how has community and things changed, I think
when we were younger, apart from you going off to EOS and not getting
home, erm, was everything was around your own little area wasn’t it?
EOS yeah it was really yeah, it- it was close EOS e- everything you
did was sort of like EOS I mean, w- with me it was sort of like, there
was **anon**, the school at the end, the church, EOS you didn’t even
have to get a bus really did you EOS every- everything was EOS already
in the road really EOS you know, we, yeah, we used to go up to the
precinct when that opened, but that’s only about f- fifteen minute
walk EOS but that was- that was going- well that was, yeah, that was
sort of, quite a distance EOS again, that’s close isn’t it? EOS but
we’d go shopping in Manchester, so we’d get- either go in the car or
get the bus into Manchester, with my Mum and Dad, you know when we EOS
used to go to C and A for your new clothes EOS so it was all, C- C and
A, erm, or Altrincham sometimes we used to get the bus to Altrincham,
but it was mainly town, but other than that EOS just going for things
like that EOS you know, sort of clothes for holidays and things, it
was generally just everything around where you lived EOS where you
lived, it was always, yeah but then there wasn’t the the choice then
was there, you know what I mean EOS you didn’t have like, things like
the Trafford Centre or I mean, the- the- they hadn’t even got the
Arndale, they built that after we’d moved, it was still Kings Street
with all the little shops EOS oh yeah, yeah EOS I can remember that,
sort of the, you know, the old shops along Kings EOS so when they-
yeah EOS that’s right and then the precinct was built EOS sort of,
probably around the time you moved then wasn’t it EOS must’ve been,
yeah EOS yeah but we, erm, we were always doing stuff for the church
in terms of erm, delivering Christian Aid envelopes, and collecting
jumble, and, so EOS oh really, yeah, so EOS yeah, just loads of our
time, EOS just, with your church EOS just sort of spent doing things
like that EOS and then my Dad did erm, quite a bit for the Summer Fair
and then the Christmas Fair and I can remember one year, I don’t know
whether I’ve told you this, we’d had a Christmas Fair, and then he
decided, for the next Christmas Fair he was gonna make this really
good grotto on the stage in the church hall and he decided he was
going to go to **anon**, cos we’d been there as kids, you know, to see
Father Christmas EOS cause it was always the best place to see Father
Christmas, **anon**, EOS oh yeah, it was, in them days, yeah, we used
to go to- EOS you always got a really nice gift at the end of it EOS
used to go to town, yeah, Christmas EOS and me Dad sort of decided he
was gonna go up there and try and get a- have a word with one of the
managers and ask, could he, erm, take away some parts of the grotto
EOS and rebuild it in miniature EOS very miniature, for the ch- EOS on
the stage EOS oh right, for the- EOS erm, so he did and it was all
like polystyrene sort of things, and anyway he built this sort of
little thing that Father Christmas sat inside the following year EOS
and everything, I can remember him bringing these bits back, bit-by-
bit in his car, cos he only had a car EOS his little building blocks,
and erm, storing them underneath the stage at the erm, church hall, in
**anon** EOS oh, good grief EOS and then the following Christmas he
got them all out, and built this EOS and, cos somebody dressed up, not
him, he never dressed up, somebody dressed up as Father Christmas and
that was our little- EOS and that was your grotto EOS ahh, that’s nice
EOS so it was always sorta things like that really so nothing too EOS
oh and brownies, were you in brownies? EOS erm, for about two weeks
EOS you st- why was it only for that long? EOS I j- I just thought it
was really b- I think it must’ve been the brownies where we were going
to EOS yeah, I think it depends on, yeah EOS it just wasn’t being run,
I don’t think EOS as a Brownie EOS was it boring? EOS yeah, it was
terrible EOS I just thought, why am I coming here, it’s- I’d go pff,
EOS I can’t remember now what- why, if you ask me now EOS what- how it
was boring, but I just remember going, and thinking ‘right, that’s
about it’ ‘I’ve given in two weeks’ EOS can remember erm, the badges,
I was mesmerised by the ba- badges, and I- I wanted to be- I had this
fixation EOS being an angel, there was fairies, I wanted to be a fairy
EOS cause that was the prettiest badge EOS it was the nicest girliest
badge, and I wasn’t, I was an imp EOS cos they just select you for
whatever EOS and they go, ‘oh you’re-’ EOS oh as your group? EOS
‘you’re imps’ yeah and then I can remember years ago EOS what was it
called, we never had these when we were there, ‘the EOS what the hell
were ‘the gillydoos’, it was all imps and pixies and fairies when I
was there EOS when **anon** went many, you know EOS obviously, years
later, and probably when you were there **anon** EOS what the hecks a
‘gillydoo’ EOS there was a what they called, a- a six EOS yeah, that’s
right EOS a six called the gillydoos, I never heard of a gillydoo EOS
don’t know what that is EOS no, so anyway, I want- wanted to be erm,
in the fairies EOS it’s a good job I wasn’t a bloke EOS erm, but I was
an imp EOS oh dear, never mind EOS well you stuck it out anyway,
longer than me EOS but no, I did stick it out so it must’ve been quite
well run EOS but again, that was in the church, every- everything was-
everything EOS my whole life, if I- if it- if they did it in the
church hall, you went to it EOS yeah and then me Dad did bingo, he
used to do bingo for OAPs EOS yeah and he got the old bingo machine
from the **anon** when they EOS he was always on the c- EOS he’s on-
he’s always on the EOS he’s always on the catch EOS on the look out,
yeah, on the catch EOS yeah, yeah at- cos at first he did it sort of
all home made, with erm, just sort of blocks with EOS you know, you
pull things out of the bag, and then eventually had like a machine
where it popped out EOS ooh, proper rolling one EOS bit like on the l-
national lottery EOS it’s still working but obviously a bit old
fashioned EOS but erm, no everybody, I think they thought that was
really good EOS what local events, news history do you think it’s
important people know about in your town? think we’ve really got that
much history really have we, I suppose, we have Manchester, but EOS
yeah, I mean you’ve got the- EOS you’ve got the- EOS you’ve got the
canals I suppose and everything haven’t we, but EOS the ship canal EOS
the ship canal EOS Manchester ship canal EOS yeah, it’s mainly the hi-
and Trafford Park’s got some history hasn’t EOS Trafford Park, yeah,
y- yeah, that’s right EOS the de Trafford family, wasn’t it, and
Trafford Park EOS yeah and the links with Manchester really, I suppose
EOS someone said erm, the Beatles played at Chassen Park apparently
EOS oh they did EOS yeah, yeah, I- I think I’ve got a photograph, EOS
or it mentions that in one of my local history books, you know the
erm, Urmston I don’t wheth- was it- was Chassen or it might’ve been
was it not Davyhulme park EOS I’m not sure EOS but it was somewhere
EOS it was one of them, was it? EOS I think I’ve heard that before EOS
oh, I didn’t know that EOS it was interesting EOS the Beatles played
EOS so it must’ve been just before they became EOS just when they
were- when they were at the Cavern EOS but they were just starting to
be discovered, and for some reason EOS yeah, and they’re just going
round the towns and EOS doing little local gigs EOS they came here EOS
ooh, I didn’t know that EOS yeah what are local people like? EOS well
I th- I EOS I think they’re not too bad on the whole I think in
Urmston and Stretford but I think EOS I think people are just quite
down to earth really EOS they’re down to earth but I think they- they
tend to keep themselves to themselves, it’s not like EOS in the old
days where you’d know everybody, and like on our street, they don’t
make an effort of coming over and just sort of ga- having a chat EOS
they just sort of go in the houses and no EOS they might say, ‘oh,
hiya’ and that’s about it EOS that’s about it EOS yeah, I mean we fi-
I must admit, we find that here but I didn’t know whether that was
because it was a busy road and I think EOS yeah, it’s harder here
isn’t it cos you’re on- on a corner and it’s- EOS when you’re on a
roa- yeah, cos obviously your neighbours across the road feel sort of
further away EOS quite apart aren’t you, quite wide apart EOS and then
we’re wide apart here, erm, I think it was different at **anon** but
whether that was because the kiddies were younger EOS so when you’re
walking to school, and obviously the school was only a few doors away
from EOS our house, so you did get to know lots of people EOS erm, so
yeah, I think it was different then, did you find that when you were
on **anon** or has yours never really been like that EOS no we were
all quite friendly, and like you say, when- when the kids were littler
and I was on the street more tend to stop and have a chat, but now
it’s just you get out of your car and you go in your house, just, do
you know what I mean, I suppose it’s my fault anyway, not making an
effort to go and speak to them as well, but EOS are they all- is it
ma- is it the same people a lot of them? EOS yeah, a lot of them are
the same people EOS yeah, so perhaps they’ve all got to the a- you
know, the stage where the kiddies are grown up or they’ve moved out
and EOS oh, they’re all grandparents now EOS and they’re grandparents,
EOS yeah, the- yeah, most of them EOS so they’re the same EOS cause
you haven’t had many houses up for sale on your road over the years
have you, all the t- EOS not really, no EOS I mean you get an odd one
EOS yeah, you get an odd one, it- the- the one at the end’s been three
times now up for sale, and new people in it the very last one, on the
EOS that’s had quite a few people in it, erm, oh and next door but
three’s now gone, that one that’s been up for sale for ages, that’s
now sold and there’s new people in their now EOS saw the si- sold sign
up there EOS so **anon** moved out last weekend EOS and so there’s,
new family in there now so, I don’t know what they’re going to be like
EOS they look like they’ve got a young girl called **anon**, and
they’ve got a dog EOS he looks about our age I think EOS the guy, so
EOS yeah, so over the years really when you think there’s quite a lot
of houses on that road, EOS there’s not been- EOS but there’s not many
comings and goings really EOS erm, so, yeah, we all kinda do know each
other but I think- I think next door because they’re Irish and because
they’re Irish and because they’re Irish, they seem to take- talk a lot
I think the Irish are very friendly people EOS yeah, they are EOS they
seem to do all the ch- EOS with each other though? EOS do they tend to
sort of, just sort of stick together? EOS yeah, they just said- yeah-
they chat- you see them outside chatting EOS together more I think EOS
but I can’t understand a word they say EOS I just c- well I m- I mean
I’ve lived next to **anon** for like how many years, I mean for
goodness sake, twent- twenty EOS oh God, it’s about twenty EOS twenty
odd years and still EOS if he talks to me I really have to listen
really carefully EOS I just cannot understand his l- now, his wife
**anon** plain as- plain EOS I can understand her, she’s, you know,
EOS she just talks to me and- and there’s no problem but- but- but
**anon**, no chance EOS it’s like, ‘hang on a minute, hang on, hang
on’ EOS no, I really have to listen hard EOS and carefully to when
he’s talking to me EOS yeah no, I was tal- EOS and they’re nice enough
EOS I- I don’t know why but I think I’d like to live somewhere that
was more- a bit more community though, would you, or? EOS yeah,
there’s not a l- a very good community sort of spirit, we’re all- th-
the neighbours are friendly enough, but no- nobody ever EOS yeah,
they’re all- everyone’s nice, EOS everyone’s nice round here, EOS it’s
not a problem EOS nobody ever does anything EOS but there’s not you
know, that same community thing, sometimes I think w- w- would it be
different if you lived in a little village but then, would you perhaps
be in each others pockets too much, would it- not pockets, you know
what I mean, EOS yeah, yeah, everyb- EOS it- w- would it become a bit
too intense, EOS yeah, and people- EOS in that everybody would know
everybody’s business EOS that’s right, yeah, it gets a bit too much
doesn’t it? EOS cause I’m readi- at the moment I’m reading, erm, do
you know- do you remember the film, ‘the Calendar Girls’ EOS well,
there’s erm, an- a bi- a sort of biography that was written by one of
the women EOS who actually she was the best friend of the lady who
lost her EOS and they were- they were raising the money for the
hospital in his memory, and she’s the one who’d written the book ,
erm, and obviously they live in the dales- in the Yorkshire dales, in
a small village, and reading it, you know, you sort of think, ‘ooh, it
sounds brilliant, the- they’re all doing this together and they’re all
doing EOS and you sort of think, ‘ooh, I’d like to live in a village’
EOS but really would you like to live in a village EOS erm, I’d like
it from the community point of view, and I mentioned it to **anon**
the other day, in fact we were talking to **anon** about it EOS and
**anon** goes, ‘oh I just like it the way it is, it suits me fi-’ EOS
‘it suits me fine’ EOS but I think there’s something missing, really,
I’d like a bit more EOS yeah, just a little bit more, EOS just to get
involved with something maybe in the li- on the village EOS yeah, a
bit of something, yeah EOS cause I suppose we used to do all that when
the kids were younger didn’t we with like, the scouts and the cubs,
we’d be EOS yeah, yeah, I don’t- EOS fundraising and selling plants,
and EOS yeah, I don’t get meself involved with anything really EOS no,
I don’t EOS I suppose I should do really, that’s me being extremely
lazy EOS because you could still do that, you could still- EOS you
could w- I think we make the excuse, or I- I know I make the excuses
cos I work full time EOS but you could, you could come home and just
get changed and go out and do something EOS and go out and do
something, yeah EOS but then it’s voluntary, and you think I’m
committed, and I have to keep doing it EOS whereas when it was the
kids, you just said, ‘oh, I’ll help out’ and y- it was- it was EOS
yeah, I think- EOS it was your perogative whether you said yes or no
EOS yeah, so you could do it EOS you could do it EOS but you weren’t
sort of thinking, ‘I’ve gotta do it all the time’ EOS that’s right,
yeah EOS it wasn’t a twenty-four seven day in, sort of, week in, week
out EOS yeah cos **anon** with his, erm, thing with Age Concern, he
erm, EOS he has to really rush somedays, which, you know, it’s fine
when he’s not rushing but, EOS to get there, cos you’re letting
someone down, they’ve come in for a EOS and if, do you know, if he
does that EOS so is it painting? EOS does he still do that? EOS no,
no, he erm EOS he does erm, I can’t remember what it’s called now,
anyway, older generation who want to learn how to use a computer EOS
oh yeah, that’s right, I remember, yeah, that’s nice EOS so you
remember, you- you gave him a reference, didn’t you? EOS I did, yeah,
EOS I th- I didn’t realise he was still doing that though EOS yeah, he
just waits EOS he’s just finished with a lady who’s erm, just been
erm, learning to use a computer, and they get about six one hour
sessions I think it EOS it’s an hour, an hour a half EOS oh, so is it
one person he deals with at a time? EOS one person at a time, yeah EOS
so it’s for six weeks EOS it’s not a classroom full, EOS it’s just
one-to one EOS it’s a one-to-one for six sort of weeks EOS and you’re
sort of, for about six weeks to give them sort of an EOS so is it of
the internet EOS or just computers or? EOS it’s mainly most of them,
it’s what they want to use it for EOS but it’s mainly, erm, how to use
the internet EOS cause that’s what most of them want to do, some of
them want to do a little bit of word processing, using word EOS and-
and- and some, like the lady who **anon** seen recently, erm, she was
about ninety EOS but she’d previously used a keyboard, so that’s not
too bad EOS she used to type EOS so at least she’s starting with
something EOS whereas sometimes, somebody might be a bit younger, but
they’ve never even used a keyboard EOS that’s right, yeah EOS cause
not all men have, have they EOS no, oh no EOS particularly of a, you
know, an older generation might not have used a keyboard