one, two, three EOS what’s your best memory from when you were young
Steph **anon**? can you think of anything funny that happened to you?
shall I tell you what one of my funny things was? when erm, I fell
down all the steps at Blackpool going onto erm, the beach, some parts
of Blackpool where it’s quite steep from sort of the, where the
promenade is EOS and you sort of go down quite a lot of steps EOS and
the way, sort of, the tide comes in, cos it’s quite a strong tide at
Blackpool, isn’t it, there’d quite often at the bottom of the steps be
quite big pools, and I can remember being really, it’s funny now but
it wasn’t at the time EOS but I can remember being really, you know,
dressed up for the holiday with new shorts and a nice tee-shirt and
everything, and went racing down these steps, and they were like
wooden s- I can’t remember whether they were wooden or stone, but
anyway, got towards the bottom and I slipped, and I went skidding and
this puddle at the bottom was quite deep actually, cos obviously it
was only sand, so it could wash away quite easily EOS I can remember
sort of slipping into it all EOS and, it was like, bit muddy as well,
not just sort of nice clean sand EOS and I remember everyone looking
at me, and me Dad picking me up and I was crying me eyes out a- ah,
they had to take me back to the hotel EOS yeah, well that’s like that
one of mine, that- yeah that’s- so he didn’t go that way again though
EOS I wonder where that was then EOS Ruelt or somewhere like that EOS
yeah, bet it was- and the brakes on the cars weren’t that good in
those days either, not like now EOS and what, I think this is a good
one, what kind of games did you play? And what- I bet we played
similar sorts of things though EOS cause it was in the street wasn’t
it, just playing EOS oh we used to play that, we used to take those to
school, cos you just used to buy l- big piece of elastic EOS on a
card, and just sort of un- unravel it didn’t you and then just tie the
ends and everyone’d just be skipping EOS yeah, we used to go to the
park and play rounders a lot, everybody on the street just loadsa
kids, cos there was loads of you EOS just like on **anon** you know,
and EOS you tended to play with the kids on your street EOS so like
there were kids who all played together on the next street EOS and
then occasionally you’d see them, but whenever you went anywhere you
went with the kids who were like on your street EOS we used to go
across **anon** EOS either to **anon** or to **anon**, which was at
the back near the EOS but yeah, it was **anon** more than anything and
we used to play on the big field there EOS yeah, we used to take erm,
I’m trying to think, it was probably a tennis racquet, so you could
really whack the ball EOS cause like you’d be running, across- across
the erm- like the little kiddies play area and then across the erm,
bowling area, yeah, and I used to be able to really whack it, so we
used to do that, and then we used to take erm, for the slide, cos it
was quite a bit slide in **anon** so we used to take a piece of
greaseproof paper, I bet **anon** thinks ‘God this sounds like’ EOS
you know eh- sixty years ago EOS but you used to- did you- do you know
this? you used to sort of put it on your bottom EOS used to sit on it
and slide down the slide and it made the slide go EOS so then the next
person who was on it after that, it was like EOS really, really did-
really, yeah, really used to grease up the erm, the side EOS so we
used to do that, and then erm, play on the erm, roundabout with a
lolly stick didn’t you, it’s so dangerous at the time, cos it was all
concrete EOS so, so this thing, you know like, erm, just like a
roundabout that went round, the old fashioned type, yeah, the spider,
we used to throw a lolly stick and then it- somebody would be going
round, they’d get their sort of foot going and they’d run wouldn’t
they and get it faster and faster and faster like EOS and then you’d
all jump on and they you used to hang on with one side and lean down
EOS and pick up as you whizzed past, try and pick up EOS a lolly stick
and graze all you arm in the proceeds EOS no wonder I used to have so
many headaches, I used to have erm, loadsa headaches doing all of
that, so yeah, just loadsa time in the park really, just used to, in
the holidays EOS just go out for hours EOS and of course you didn’t
have mobile phones and things so EOS but, I think your parents were
glad to get rid of you really weren’t EOS I don’t remember going out
much in the evening though EOS to be honest EOS now whether we did and
it was just summer and you just had, like, you say, you had to be back
at a certain time EOS but during the day in the school holidays you
could- just take a bottle of something to drink EOS yeah, that’s right
EOS I don’t know many stories about my grandparents though, I didn’t
really know my grandparents very well, cos- so in terms of good
stories EOS oh right I can remember my Granddad who lived next door to
us on **anon** cos he used to put me on his shoulders and take me to
the EOS but I was- I was really young, and then he died, he was- day-
died in an accident at work EOS erm, and me Nanna lived a bit, you
know, quite a, few years longer, but not, when I was, you know, older
EOS c- I was probably probably about six then EOS but I ant- but my
Granddad probably EOS died when I was about three something like that,
so I have really young memories of them EOS it is it’s quite young EOS
when you sort of think about, like, sort of **anon** and yourselves,
with your grandparents and the time you’ve spent with them EOS and was
it just on one? On- yeah EOS on one leg, mm EOS we- we never saw much
of me Mum’s side, even if you know, it was her Mum and me Mum’s Dad
died before I was born, because me Mum always said, ooh, they lived a
long way away, you know EOS ‘oh yeah, they li- they live a long way’
and when you think about it now, it was only the other side of
Manchester EOS but because me Mum didn’t drive EOS me Dad did have a
car, there’d be occasions when he didn’t have a car EOS I think, cos
they were older cars and if it failed its MOT or the equivalent of the
MOT EOS I think you just have to sell it, and that was it, you didn’t
have a car for a while EOS and then you saved up and you bought
another one, erm, so EOS me Dad had a car but he’d be using that for
work anyway, erm, and me Mum didn’t drive, and then I suppose, she
then got sort of a part time job when we were at school, so I suppose
they just didn’t have the time and it- you know, it would’ve been
probably two buses EOS to get there EOS but erm, so yeah, I don’t
think it was that far away, we’d just jump in the car and drive there
now EOS but to them it was sort of EOS so we just seemed to see more
of my Dad’s side of the family because they all lived in Stretford EOS
or Sale, you know, they were all sort of like within the vicinity if
you know what I mean EOS yeah, so you tend to sort of find that, and
I’ve only one recollection of me Mum’s Mum erm, and again, I must’ve
been really, really, young and I can remember she kept saying, ‘she’s
gonna hurt herself, she’s gonna hurt herself, grab hold of her’ I
think at- she must’ve had a cellar and the door must’ve been open EOS
and I just have this vague recollection of seeing steps going down EOS
downstairs which I’d never seen before cos we didn’t have a cellar at
our house, so I just must’ve been mesmerised by these steps EOS and
possibly they didn’t have- she didn’t have a door on it EOS and she
was trying to keep me away, and I can remember her saying something to
me Mum like, I think these were her words, ‘you’ve got your hands full
with her’ EOS ‘ooh, you’ve got your hands full with that one’ EOS I
must’ve been a bit EOS a bit hyper or something like that EOS did you
ever get hurt whilst you were playing as a kid? Well, we’ve covered
that haven’t we in terms of like, the games you used to play EOS you
can remember that, and going backwards and really banging your EOS
‘wake up, stay awake, stay awake’ I can remember, **anon**, erm being
knocked out by a swing EOS me Mum was with us, and erm, she’d taken
us- she’d obviously taken us to the park and **anon** was probably
about EOS about three, something like that, so I’m three years older
than her, so I’m six EOS and erm, I can just picture it now, where the
swings were and she just ran, and a swing that somebody- a kiddy was
on came forward EOS and sort of whacked her on her forehead and
knocked- literally knocked her out, she- she EOS passed out with it
and I can re- Mum- member me Mum sort of really shouting and picking
her up and like, holding her in her arms, and running erm, onto
**anon** cos there’s a doc- there’s still a doctor’s surgery there
anyway EOS but there was one that backed onto the park EOS and she ran
out of the gates, and I’m running after her and she’s going, ‘come on,
keep up’ EOS and she just went flying into the doctor’s surgery EOS I
think she’d come round by that time, but she’s still got the scar
**anon** EOS if you look, a very little scar just on her head where
the things EOS yeah, cos they were wood weren’t they in the main EOS
sort of wooden seats, so I think it just sort of EOS swung out, so,
yeah, I can remember that being really, really scary EOS did you ever
get into trouble for something at school? I was quite good really EOS
I can remember getting into trouble- think, ‘you know what, we won’t-
we won’t do that again’ EOS so who caught you? didn’t pass then EOS is
that- what EOS oh, that’s awful isn’t it EOS ahh, I can remember
getting into- no, I can remember, only two things really, one of them
was Sunday school, and it wasn’t about being naughty it was about
turning something down that I was asked to do because I was shy and
it- I was asked to be Mary in the nativity play at Sunday school EOS
and it just scared me so much EOS wa- having to walk down the aisle,
cos that- they always did it, not erm, we used to go to Sunday school
in the church hall, but the actual nativity play always took place in
the church EOS and I can remember watching it meself and Mary and
Joseph would walk down the aisle, and I can remember thinking, ‘I’m
not walking down the aisle with a boy’ EOS ‘holding a baby doll
holding Jesus’ EOS and the- just the thought of it EOS yeah, it scared
me so much EOS so I just said, no I didn’t wanna do it, thinking
nothing of it EOS but cos Mum and Dad also went to church as well, and
knew the Sunday school teachers, they told her EOS the following, you
know, sh- or she told them the following week, they said, ‘ooh, we’ve
asked Shona **anon** to be erm, Mary and she’s- she’s said no’ EOS and
I can remember when I got home, Mum and Dad went mad with me EOS they
said, ‘fancy turning that down you had- you could’ve had the EOS I
said, ‘but I didn’t want the starring role, I-’ in fact all I kept
thinking about all the time was wanting to be an angel, cos I wanted
somebody to do those big wings EOS and put them on me back, and I
fancied being- cos it was all nice, and white, and pretty wasn’t it,
and so Mary just had a- Mary had a horrible blue sort of, like, tea-
towely looking dress on EOS and, you know, Mary, dark blue, stripes,
Angel, white, wings EOS no-one’s- I wanted to be the an- I EOS yeah, I
wouldn’t- and I wouldn’t’ve minded being erm, Gabriel, something like
that EOS they thought I was really ungrateful because they’d actually
chosen me cos, you know, they thought I could EOS carry it off and EOS
so I can remember my Mum and Dad really telling me off, and then the
other time I can remember being in trouble was, erm, when I was at
grammar school, and we erm, rather than go out through the doors, we
d- opened all the windows and climbed out EOS not realising that, as
you climbed out, it was only our first year, the erm staff room was
sort of at right angles to where the main EOS so of course all the
teachers EOS were sat eating their lunch EOS saw these legs come out
of the window EOS and we all climb out onto the tennis- you know
where- cos the tennis courts were just below EOS cause it was a really
long walk round EOS and down onto the field EOS so we thought, ‘we’ll
take a shortcut’ so erm, yeah I can remember having to restack, you
know all those stackable chairs EOS they used to be really heavy with
like canvas seats in those days EOS with the- with the metal frames
EOS we had to erm, there was probably about four, five of us who had
done it and they got us all in, so we had a detention, and we had to
restack all the chairs in the hall that- so, but that was it, so it
was nothing particularly exciting EOS we’re not really naughty EOS but
erm, but no I was really, really embarrassed and I can remember my
friend who also did it at, you know, the same time and erm, we were
sort of told off really EOS erm, at registration I think in the
afternoon EOS you know, lunch, after lunch, erm, I think we were in
the, our classroom then, or form room was the music room and I can
remember we were up there, with sort of, one of the music teachers,
and she said, ‘five girls who will remain nameless’ EOS so I’m looking
up thinking, ‘I’m not going to look guilty, cos they won’t know who it
is, so I’m just’ EOS and me friend was at the side of me, who’d also
been caught, and she just sat there crying her eyes out EOS I thought,
‘well, you’re making it really obvious’ EOS cause she’s going blowing
her nose EOS but yeah we were- we were really embarrassed that we’d
been naughty, whereas you know, probably now, kids’d just think, ‘oh,
I’m just climbing out the window, wasn’t EOS but really mortifed the
fact that we’d done something wrong, whether it was because it was the
first year and we didn’t know everyone EOS your hometown well, I’ve
certainly not lived anywhere else, you’ve not have you lived in
Manchester EOS well, where were your parents from Steph **anon** EOS
were they both from Manchester? oh was she? I didn’t know that EOS she
come up North EOS yeah yeah my Mum was from **anon** and my Dad was
from EOS but then, his family moved to **anon** cos it was posh then
EOS from **anon**, cos **anon** was low key and dirty EOS and **anon**
was EOS still a suburb then wasn’t it EOS yeah, so me Dad’s family
moved there, and I think my Dad had just met me Mum just before they
moved, and then me Mum and Dad bought the house next door to EOS erm,
my Dad’s Mum and Dad EOS so, they were like sort of, living next door
to each other EOS she’d been there for about forty years, so me Mum
and her sister-in- law were still living there EOS so, all those years
later EOS me Mum said, ‘and I never liked it, I never wanted to live
there’ EOS and she lived there for forty years EOS I don’t think
people sort of, tended to move did they, they sort of tended to stay
in the same house EOS oh you did didn’t you EOS yeah, big houses EOS
big terraced houses EOS so is it still just three bedroom? so did you-
you s- your other house, the house your Mum and Dad lived in when I
met you, did that seem a lot bigger when you got EOS yeah, cos it was
quite open plan, your Mum- they’d knocked it through EOS hiding from
each other? ‘Where’s she gone?’ EOS I was gonna say, the rooms
probably wouldn’t be that much bigger EOS oh, it wasn’t, no EOS yeah,
sometimes, cos they’re higher, they’re sort of deceptive aren’t they,
yeah EOS everything’s sorta smaller after that EOS quite a long way
for kiddies isn’t it EOS from **anon** to EOS no, it’s a long way EOS
when really you only went to school like, down at the end of the
street, or round the corner didn’t you EOS ooh, I didn’t know EOS
about that’s one thing you’ve never told me EOS I was gonna say, it’s
ea- it’s easy to forget isn’t it when you’re a EOS oh God it is, yeah
EOS yeah, so it’s still only young isn’t it EOS it’s easy to sort of,
forget these things EOS what do I do EOS oh it must- yeah, it must me
associated with that, yeah EOS oh right, no I- you see I don’t get
scared I just think, carry on a bit further and it’ll all make sense
EOS and I’m sure I’ll find where I am, and you usually do don’t you,
y- cos you sort of think- you see another sign or whatever EOS yeah,
but that’s probably why, probably goes back to then doesn’t it EOS
‘well sort it, we’ll sort it’ EOS yeah, well you sound as though you
were a bit more adventurous and had to go further, whereas I was
always just around Stretford if you know what I mean EOS didn’t really
go very far EOS and I think, looking at that one there- making up for
it now things about, how has community and things changed, I think
when we were younger, apart from you going off to EOS and not getting
home, erm, was everything was around your own little area wasn’t it?
e- everything you did was sort of like EOS I mean, w- with me it was
sort of like, there was **anon**, the school at the end, the church,
every- everything was EOS you know, we, yeah, we used to go up to the
precinct when that opened, but that’s only about f- fifteen minute
walk EOS but that was- that was going- well that was, yeah, that was
sort of, quite a distance EOS but we’d go shopping in Manchester, so
we’d get- either go in the car or get the bus into Manchester, with my
Mum and Dad, you know when we EOS used to go to C and A for your new
clothes EOS so it was all, C- C and A, erm, or Altrincham sometimes we
used to get the bus to Altrincham, but it was mainly town, but other
than that EOS just going for things like that EOS you know, sort of
clothes for holidays and things, it was generally just everything
around where you lived EOS oh yeah, yeah EOS I can remember that, sort
of the, you know, the old shops along Kings EOS that’s right and then
the precinct was built EOS sort of, probably around the time you moved
then wasn’t it EOS yeah but we, erm, we were always doing stuff for
the church in terms of erm, delivering Christian Aid envelopes, and
collecting jumble, and, so EOS yeah, just loads of our time, just sort
of spent doing things like that EOS and then my Dad did erm, quite a
bit for the Summer Fair and then the Christmas Fair and I can remember
one year, I don’t know whether I’ve told you this, we’d had a
Christmas Fair, and then he decided, for the next Christmas Fair he
was gonna make this really good grotto on the stage in the church hall
and he decided he was going to go to **anon**, cos we’d been there as
kids, you know, to see Father Christmas EOS cause it was always the
best place to see Father Christmas, **anon**, you always got a really
nice gift at the end of it EOS and me Dad sort of decided he was gonna
go up there and try and get a- have a word with one of the managers
and ask, could he, erm, take away some parts of the grotto EOS and
rebuild it in miniature EOS on the stage EOS erm, so he did and it was
all like polystyrene sort of things, and anyway he built this sort of
little thing that Father Christmas sat inside the following year EOS
and everything, I can remember him bringing these bits back, bit-by-
bit in his car, cos he only had a car EOS his little building blocks,
and erm, storing them underneath the stage at the erm, church hall, in
**anon** EOS and then the following Christmas he got them all out, and
built this EOS and, cos somebody dressed up, not him, he never dressed
up, somebody dressed up as Father Christmas and that was our little-
so it was always sorta things like that really so nothing too EOS oh
and brownies, were you in brownies? you st- why was it only for that
long? yeah, I think it depends on, yeah EOS was it boring? can
remember erm, the badges, I was mesmerised by the ba- badges, and I- I
wanted to be- I had this fixation EOS being an angel, there was
fairies, I wanted to be a fairy EOS cause that was the prettiest badge
EOS it was the nicest girliest badge, and I wasn’t, I was an imp EOS
cos they just select you for whatever EOS and they go, ‘oh you’re-’
EOS ‘you’re imps’ yeah and then I can remember years ago EOS what was
it called, we never had these when we were there, ‘the EOS what the
hell were ‘the gillydoos’, it was all imps and pixies and fairies when
I was there EOS when **anon** went many, you know EOS obviously, years
later, and probably when you were there **anon** EOS there was a what
they called, a- a six EOS a six called the gillydoos, I never heard of
a gillydoo EOS no, so anyway, I want- wanted to be erm, in the fairies
EOS it’s a good job I wasn’t a bloke EOS erm, but I was an imp EOS but
no, I did stick it out so it must’ve been quite well run EOS but
again, that was in the church, every- everything was- everything EOS
my whole life, if I- if it- if they did it in the church hall, you
went to it EOS yeah and then me Dad did bingo, he used to do bingo for
OAPs EOS yeah and he got the old bingo machine from the **anon** when
they EOS he was always on the c- he’s always on the catch EOS yeah,
yeah at- cos at first he did it sort of all home made, with erm, just
sort of blocks with EOS you know, you pull things out of the bag, and
then eventually had like a machine where it popped out EOS bit like on
the l- national lottery EOS it’s still working but obviously a bit old
fashioned EOS but erm, no everybody, I think they thought that was
really good EOS what local events, news history do you think it’s
important people know about in your town? think we’ve really got that
much history really have we, I suppose, we have Manchester, but EOS
the ship canal EOS Manchester ship canal EOS Trafford Park, yeah, y-
yeah, that’s right EOS yeah and the links with Manchester really, I
suppose EOS oh they did EOS yeah, yeah, I- I think I’ve got a
photograph, or it mentions that in one of my local history books, you
know the erm, Urmston I don’t wheth- was it- was Chassen or it
might’ve been was it not Davyhulme park EOS but it was somewhere EOS I
think I’ve heard that before EOS so it must’ve been just before they
became EOS just when they were- when they were at the Cavern EOS but
they were just starting to be discovered, and for some reason EOS they
came here EOS yeah what are local people like? well I th- I EOS I
think people are just quite down to earth really EOS they just sort of
go in the houses and no EOS that’s about it EOS yeah, I mean we fi- I
must admit, we find that here but I didn’t know whether that was
because it was a busy road and I think EOS when you’re on a roa- yeah,
cos obviously your neighbours across the road feel sort of further
away EOS and then we’re wide apart here, erm, I think it was different
at **anon** but whether that was because the kiddies were younger EOS
so when you’re walking to school, and obviously the school was only a
few doors away from EOS our house, so you did get to know lots of
people EOS erm, so yeah, I think it was different then, did you find
that when you were on **anon** or has yours never really been like
that EOS are they all- is it ma- is it the same people a lot of them?
yeah, so perhaps they’ve all got to the a- you know, the stage where
the kiddies are grown up or they’ve moved out and EOS and they’re
grandparents, so they’re the same EOS cause you haven’t had many
houses up for sale on your road over the years have you, all the t- I
mean you get an odd one EOS saw the si- sold sign up there EOS yeah,
so over the years really when you think there’s quite a lot of houses
on that road, there’s not been- with each other though? do they tend
to sort of, just sort of stick together? oh God, it’s about twenty EOS
it’s like, ‘hang on a minute, hang on, hang on’ EOS yeah no, I was
tal- I- I don’t know why but I think I’d like to live somewhere that
was more- a bit more community though, would you, or? yeah, they’re
all- everyone’s nice, everyone’s nice round here, it’s not a problem
EOS but there’s not you know, that same community thing, sometimes I
think w- w- would it be different if you lived in a little village but
then, would you perhaps be in each others pockets too much, would it-
not pockets, you know what I mean, it- w- would it become a bit too
intense, in that everybody would know everybody’s business EOS cause
I’m readi- at the moment I’m reading, erm, do you know- do you
remember the film, ‘the Calendar Girls’ EOS well, there’s erm, an- a
bi- a sort of biography that was written by one of the women EOS who
actually she was the best friend of the lady who lost her EOS and they
were- they were raising the money for the hospital in his memory, and
she’s the one who’d written the book , erm, and obviously they live in
the dales- in the Yorkshire dales, in a small village, and reading it,
you know, you sort of think, ‘ooh, it sounds brilliant, the- they’re
all doing this together and they’re all doing EOS and you sort of
think, ‘ooh, I’d like to live in a village’ EOS but really would you
like to live in a village EOS erm, I’d like it from the community
point of view, and I mentioned it to **anon** the other day, in fact
we were talking to **anon** about it EOS and **anon** goes, ‘oh I just
like it the way it is, it suits me fi-’ EOS ‘it suits me fine’ EOS but
I think there’s something missing, really, I’d like a bit more EOS
yeah, a bit of something, yeah EOS cause I suppose we used to do all
that when the kids were younger didn’t we with like, the scouts and
the cubs, we’d be EOS fundraising and selling plants, and EOS no, I
don’t EOS you could w- I think we make the excuse, or I- I know I make
the excuses cos I work full time EOS but you could, you could come
home and just get changed and go out and do something EOS yeah, I
think- yeah, so you could do it EOS but you weren’t sort of thinking,
‘I’ve gotta do it all the time’ EOS yeah cos **anon** with his, erm,
thing with Age Concern, he erm, he has to really rush somedays, which,
you know, it’s fine when he’s not rushing but, to get there, cos
you’re letting someone down, they’ve come in for a EOS and if, do you
know, if he does that EOS no, no, he erm EOS he does erm, I can’t
remember what it’s called now, anyway, older generation who want to
learn how to use a computer EOS so you remember, you- you gave him a
reference, didn’t you? yeah, he just waits EOS he’s just finished with
a lady who’s erm, just been erm, learning to use a computer, and they
get about six one hour sessions I think it EOS it’s an hour, an hour a
half EOS one person at a time, yeah EOS it’s not a classroom full,
it’s just one-to one EOS and you’re sort of, for about six weeks to
give them sort of an EOS it’s mainly most of them, it’s what they want
to use it for EOS but it’s mainly, erm, how to use the internet EOS
cause that’s what most of them want to do, some of them want to do a
little bit of word processing, using word EOS and- and- and some, like
the lady who **anon** seen recently, erm, she was about ninety EOS but
she’d previously used a keyboard, so that’s not too bad EOS she used
to type EOS so at least she’s starting with something EOS whereas
sometimes, somebody might be a bit younger, but they’ve never even
used a keyboard EOS cause not all men have, have they EOS particularly
of a, you know, an older generation might not have used a keyboard