no, no, you’re right EOS my name is Harriet Rickman **anon** EOS and I
am absolutely fantastic EOS right, so what I was saying before is,
years ago, when kids where in the street if they were cheeky or
anything like that EOS you give them a clip round the ear EOS and if
they went running in saying to their Mum, ‘Mum, Mum, Mrs such- and-
such-a-body’, or, ‘Aunty Doree’s just hit me’ her answer would be,
‘well, you must’ve deserved it’ EOS and it was right, whereas now, a
kid in the street, the other week it was, erm, he stood right in front
of me and he wouldn’t let me pass EOS so, I got his arms like that and
I moved him to one side EOS it- yeah, on- on **anon** EOS and he goes,
‘you’re not allowed to touch me, I’m going to get the police’, so
that’s what you get now EOS whereas years ago, cos you knew you was
gonna get a clip round the EOS you didn’t do it EOS it- it’s a
different story, and like I say, you were always in your EOS all- a
lot of the doors were open, kids were playing, I remember EOS you
know, the door was open, he was in and out, and all the kids were in
the street EOS you never sorta moved out your area EOS whereas now,
they do move out the area, they do wander all over the place, and
they’re in gangs EOS yeah, so you’d move out your area and a lotta p-
like you say, a lotta people are moving so the community is gone EOS
people don’t know everybody like they used to EOS do you know EOS the-
the know them there, them there, you know, and now, that’s gone, some
people don’t even see their neighbours, do you know EOS t- sp- no, no,
th- that’s another thing, a lotta kids now, at one s- that’s- I mean
**anon** said to me the other day, ‘put the baby at the door’, he
says, ‘I took him for a- took him for EOS ‘and I parked him outside
the door’, he says, ‘now how often do you see a child parked outside
the door getting some fresh-’ you never, but at one time babies were-
you had a baby and, ‘ooh, look, they’ve had a new baby’ cos it’d be
outside the front door EOS in a morning, washed, fed, time for a nap,
in the pram and outside in the air, you never see that now EOS they
never put a baby at the front door, cos you’re too scared someone’s
gonna come along EOS and snatch it EOS that’s it, but that’s another
thing you see, I’d say ninety percent of the mothers work now EOS
whereas they didn’t then EOS nobody worked then so, mothers were at
home all day EOS they could socialise with the neighbours, and get to
know the neighbours, whereas now, you’re up in the morning, children
at babyminders, out at work, pick the kids up after work, back home,
doing the tea, you’re too knackered to do anything else, to go
socialising, most of the time it’s- it’s EOS weekends, and then it’s
people you already know EOS so you don’t get- y- you lose- you losing
a lot of the community, not EOS well, like I say, women having to go
out to work EOS because they can’t afford to survive on the one wage
EOS but that’s as well, because we’ve got very materialistic, cos at
one EOS if you didn’t have a telly, you didn’t have a telly EOS it
didn’t matter EOS but now everybody wants, ‘ooh, the Joneses have got
this, so’ EOS ‘we want one’ EOS so, to get these things you’ve and-
and in getting them things I think you’re sacrificing the community
part of it EOS you know, there’s that little network is dwindling, but
everyone’s becoming more materialistic, they’ve got the video, they’ve
got the computer, the children have got all the best trainers, and
this, that and the other EOS you’re g- you’re gaining material things-
but you’re losing some of the values in the home, and the social EOS
think, on that side EOS wanted to get married, but- turn around, yeah
EOS I know, it’s funny because did you see it on the telly, that they
said, although women have got more rights, erm, more independence than
this, that and the other they are less happy, th- erm, ninety percent
of them are less happy than they were fifty years ago EOS you know,
th- they- really not content at all EOS they said and I- I- I think it
was Loose Women I was watching and th- they were saying EOS I love
them, and they were saying it’s because, this professor says it’s
because, women have too high expectations of love EOS and romance and
what they expect EOS and one of them said, it’s not that they have too
high a expectations, it’s that they won’t settle for anything less EOS
whereas at one time, if you got married, you stayed because of the EOS
and you put up with abuse, and you put up with drinking, and you put
up with all sorts, because EOS that was the norm, it was a big shame
at one time to get divorced, the- the- you know, separate EOS on,
yeah, yeah EOS yeah, I- I couldn’t imagine EOS having to stay in a
relationship that I wasn’t happy in, no way EOS I just couldn’t, I d-
I- I wonder how these women coped EOS it’s too easy for us, yeah, too
easy for us to change, I suppose there’s certain things in that that
you could say, yeah EOS but there’s the extremes where you get EOS
really horrible men that EOS are abusive and stuff EOS women died
because they couldn’t leave they’d, you know, g- get beat up and
summet could happen whereas, mind you, even now today you will see
that a battered wife ninety percent of them stay with the husband EOS
they don’t always report it, they cover it up, they, you know EOS
because they say it’s a syndrome don’t they, once you get in that
situation, it’s very, very hard EOS to get out EOS yeah, it’s not got
the spark- what- what you perceive as love and the excitement and the
butterflies in your stomach EOS I don’t care who gets that EOS after
twelve month that goes doesn’t it EOS and it does end up the norm, you
know, just EOS like a routine, ‘morning, love, right, off to work, see
you later, what do you want for tea’ EOS I’d- I- I know what you mean,
and I agree with you, that’s nice, but EOS a problem can start,
because when you’re both going out to work, you’re both meeting new
people, and then someone pays you attention, and there’s a bit of
excitement there, that’s when EOS that hum drum life all of a sudden
becomes, ‘I don’t know if I can put up with that’, you know, do you
know what I mean because EOS there’s a bit of excitement over there
and I think, even in a- a marriage where it’s hum-drum like that EOS
you still need a bit of excitement in some way or another EOS to keep
it going EOS but at the end of the day it’s still how can you always
fit it in, because, when you’re both working y- you know what I mean,
when you buy- I think if you get married and you buy a property EOS
ninety percent of your time goes towards your home, working for EOS
and that is sometimes, is that- like I say, we’re getting too
materialistic in a lot of things EOS so, instead of, like you say,
keeping the excitement and everything in your marriage EOS things tend
to go materialistic, ‘oh, we want this for the home and ooh, have you
seen that over, ooh yeah, we’ll get one of them big massive screen
tellys and’ EOS and so all your time is getting the money together for
all these EOS and then that that takes away from your personal EOS
it’s about a collection of things round you EOS payments left on me
car, oh my God, I suppose EOS ah yeah that is something that has-
that’s changed EOS I don’t think they lost out, I don’t think they
wanted to be bothered, to be truthful with you EOS cause it was- I
still remember Granddad **anon**, he used to go to work, come home and
sit in the corner with his paper and he didn’t like a lot of mither
off EOS kids, do you know, it was- that was his routine EOS and it’s
like whatsits Dad, his a- his attitude was, ‘I go out to work it’s my
house I pay the bills and I’ll watch what I want on telly’ I mean,
I’ve seen him come in switch- she’s been EOS telly goes over she goes
to- no, I’m not joking, like, that is the God’s honest truth EOS he’d
been out in the pub, he’s come in EOS she’s in the middle of a film,
he just turned it- I was sat with her and I c- turned it over, and she
went, ‘I was watching that’, ‘I pay the bills in this house, I’m the
one that goes out to work, I’ll watch what I want’ I was EOS there was
steam coming out me ears EOS I come, ‘I’ve got to go now’ EOS and I
just walked out and I’m like this EOS it was- it was horrendous EOS
and it was so funny cos they came to our house and erm, **anon**
asked, ‘erm, do you want a brew’ this that, ‘erm, yeah, yeah, go on,
I’ll have a can, yeah, yeah, yeah’ and he goes erm, ‘ooh erm, such-
and- such-a-body’s on’ and he turned the telly over, and he goes,
‘ooh, it’s good this, it’s good match this’ and I just got the remote,
I come ‘I pay the bills in here, we don’t watch sport in this EOS and
he walked, I thought there’s no way you can do that in your home,
you’re not doing it in mine EOS do you know what I mean, and they went
they left- argument, but that’s what I’m saying, that was the way then
EOS the women stayed at home, they cleaned the house, they looked
after the children, the men went to work, had a pint, come home, tea
on the EOS and they didn’t want no mither EOS do you know, mm, and
that was the routine EOS and it was more the women that had the social
circle like I say, all EOS and everything, the men it was, down the
pub EOS Auntys, no, no, but it was always EOS Aunty **anon**, cos you
didn’t go, Mrs **anon** or Mrs **anon** EOS it was Aunty **anon**,
Aunty **anon**, Aunty **anon**, you know EOS they were all Aunties EOS
and like I say EOS you did summet wrong, they didn’t go running
telling your Mum, you got a clip round the ear EOS and if you went and
told your Mum, you’d get another one EOS yeah, and it was ‘well, you
must’ve deserved it’ EOS cause I can still remember that EOS cause
they don’t- they’re not gonna crack you for nothing EOS and it wasn’t
a whack, it was just, like you say, a clip round the ear, ‘eh, you
little bugger, what do you think you’re doing’ EOS but you can’t-
told, yeah now you can’t e- there’s no way you can do any of that, and
I tell you what an- irritates me with the grandkids, the eldest in
particular these mobile phones, you can’t have a decent conversation
with them because it’s, ‘erm, yeah oh alri- alright Nanna, erm, what
was that, what, erm, oh alright, yeah, yeah’ EOS and they’re like this
EOS so that you know they’re not listening to you EOS they’re too busy
on- on- on- on the phone- on the phone texting EOS and when they- when
they’ve text me, right, have you ever got one of these texts, and I’m
going, ‘what the what’ and I put two pairs of glasses on and I still
don’t understand it and it’s all text EOS all text writing, and I
wonder, you know like y- y- everything evolves, you know like erm,
years and years and years ago they used to speak all drawn out and
everything EOS and like you say, we’ve shortened it, do you think
we’ll end up writing like they text now in years to come EOS do you
know another- another change EOS yeah because I’ve- I said to someone,
no so long ago, I says EOS the way they used to talk, ‘thou shalt do’
you know EOS years ago, the ways they used to write and do that EOS I
says, and then it all got changed to more a less speaking- writing how
you speak, and now, is it gonna be, you’re writing how you text EOS do
you know, and so that could be another EOS is it? I thought it was
‘lots of love’ EOS ooh but that’s it, I j- I thought L-O-L was ‘lots
of love’ because a lot of people do that at the end of a text, ‘right,
going now, bye, L-O-L’, so I thought it was ‘lots of love’, erm, and
I- if- I’ve started doing little bits like, if I’m texting **anon**,
erm, ‘are you on your way’ and I’ll put, just an ‘R’, then a ‘U’ EOS
do you know like, that- little things like that, but I don’t know all
the others that EOS but that’s what I’m saying EOS yeah, yeah, but
that’s what I’m saying, I think this EOS is gonna change the whole
thing again EOS because it’s all computers, it’s all erm, mobile
phones and texting EOS so I do think in the next ten years, it’s all
gonna change again and, people are gonna be writing like- it’s like a
shorthand isn’t it, instead of- cos I know our **anon** says, ‘it
takes you bleeding ages to text me back’ EOS because I do the whole
thing, you know EOS ‘and’ and ‘the’ and everything is wrote, you know,
properly, and she’s there going, ‘for God’s sake’, I says, ‘yeah, but
I’m not used to texting’, I’m not used to typing, so it takes me ten
minutes EOS to find the letter and the key that I want EOS do you know
what I mean, I’m getting a bit quicker now but at first I’d g- I’d get
bored before I got to the end of what I was trying to EOS do you know
EOS do you know- that’s how you pick a fella up EOS honest to God I- I
wouldn’t know how to do that, in fact, a few times erm, I’ve- when I
was going to excuse me, ‘Sign’ **anon** EOS a few of them said, ‘ooh,
we go on these chat-room things and EOS ‘and we have a right laugh,
and I met a few people’, I says, ‘oh right’, well the first thing, I
we- I went into hysterics, cos I says, ‘ooh, what is it, I’ll have a
go at that’ she goes, ‘ooh, it’s called plenty of fish’, well EOS I
set off laughing, I says ‘it’s called what?’, she says, ‘plenty of EOS
she says, ‘the only trouble is’ she says, ‘you have to be careful cos
some of them are only after one thing’ I says, ‘well do you think that
could be because of the name of the site?’ EOS you know, ‘plenty of
fish’, she says, ‘I never thought of that’, well I was- I nearly
choked laughing EOS right, but each time I try to get onto these
things EOS I can’t do it EOS but I must do something because I keep
getting things saying EOS ‘we’ve found your perfect match’ or
‘somebody wants to get in touch with you but when I try to go back on
it, you know, I’ll press it on me emails to go EOS and I still get
lost and I don’t know what I’m doing and I think, ‘oh, sack it’ and
it’s frustrating EOS you know, so I don’t bother, I just play
solitaire on the computer EOS and I’ll sit- is that- did you send me
something about that? oh, go on EOS is that what they said? oh no, no,
no, no EOS I need a four p- I- I need a four-poster at least EOS oh
God, that- I’d a died if that- I’d a been, ‘ooh, ooh, ooh’ EOS
**anon** come and sort this out for me EOS I probably would’ve done
yeah EOS I’d’ve probably got barred off the internet for using bad
language EOS site, I know, ah no oh I’ve never come across anything-
I’ve never been- I never get into anything- I never get far enough
into it to even have a conversation with normal people never mind EOS
find a site like that, so I’ve ne- l- like I say I’ve tried a few
times, and never got on properly at anytime EOS anytime at all so I
just- I just sack it now, in fact, I went on me emails the other day
and there was about- I had fifty nine messages, and I bet twenty of
them was from them saying they’ve found a perfect partner EOS off
different things that I’ve tried to get on EOS but, they’ve got me
name and email address so they just send me all these things and I s-
I think EOS it’s no use having him there, I’m here, I don’t know how
to get to EOS so I just leave it, just sack it EOS erm, no way but
it’s erm, it is it is crazy, and I say to **anon**, ‘why don’t you get
on?’, cos I want her to keep up with her email and keep in touch with
her friends EOS and she goes, ‘I’m on a bleeding computer all day, I’m
not getting on it again’ and she won’t EOS sh- you know, it- in fact
she lost her email address because it had been that long EOS since
she’s been on it, and the- after a while, I didn’t realise, our
**anon** says, ‘oh yeah, if you’ve not used your email address for a
long time they squash it and you have to start up again’ EOS she says,
cos it happened to her so I said, ‘oh right’, so erm, w- she had to
set up a- well I did it for her, I sound dead clever now EOS I did it
for her, I sorted it out, and got her back on but erm, she still
doesn’t go on it much, and I mean it would benefit her EOS with her
being deaf EOS I mean she only texts anyway when she uses her phone,
what a performance I’ve had with that she went to erm, Salford to get
a new phone and I could see people looking at us, and some of them
tittering, she says, ‘but I need a phone’ she says, ‘that has got a
good vibrator on it’ EOS and we’re in the middle on this shop and I’m
thinking, ‘oh God’, she says, ‘because the last phone I got’ she says,
‘the vibration was no good, I couldn’t feel it’ she says, erm, ‘and I
was missing all me EOS so I’m there saying, ‘look, she’s deaf, she
needs a phone with a decent vibration on it so that when it’s in her
back pocket she can EOS I says, ‘the other phone that she got she
ended up swapping because it was no good to her, she was missing
everything’ ‘right, okay’, and she wanted one with a good camera on
it, and we were going EOS I know well that’s- that’s- that’s one thing
that they are lacking in EOS because, she has- sh- when we go, we
don’t go for a new phone and we’re in and out in a- in an hour EOS we
can be in there two or three hours EOS because she’s there and they’re
putting- they ringing all these phones and she’s holding them trying
to say EOS ‘no, that’s no good, that’s no good’, you know, and I
think- and I don’t- the worst thing is, she takes me with her, and I
don’t know the EOS about phones so I’m neither use nor ornament EOS so
she gets this phone home it was spent more time at home than it did
with her because the battery was going flat all the time, she was
charging it up every other day and what else, there was a f- there was
about three things wrong with it so we checked the agreement and it
says you can change it- you can cancel it within seven days, so she
said, ‘right’, so she types this letter out at work stops off at
Salford, she says, ‘right, I don’t want this anymore’ ‘cancelling me
contract’ they said, ‘you can’t do this- that’ she says, ‘yeah, oh yes
I can’, ‘oh, you’ve got to do it in writing’, she goes, ‘there it is,
copy for you, copy for me’, ‘no you’ve got to send it to ‘ead o- head
office’ and all this that and the other so she had a big row with them
she- she left the phone on the desk, they says, ‘no, no, you can’t
leave it here’, she says, ‘yes, I can I’m leaving it, I’m cancelling
everything’, and she went out the shop shouting, ‘you’re all mad if
you get a phone from here’ EOS I know, she’s dead erm, she’s dead
bolshy isn’t she EOS I thought, I’m glad I wasn’t with her, but
anyway, they’ve sent her a letter back saying, yes, she can cancel the
contract, but she’s got to pick the phone up, and she’s gotta ring
them and then they’ve got to arrange to pick it up and all this that
and the other, I thought EOS why not just give it back to the shop EOS
and leave it at that, so that’s what- she went in the shop and got it
from the shop, so why not just take it back to the shop EOS so, but
that’s what she’s got to do, so that’s what I’ll have to do later on,
erm, she’s got one now EOS well, I- don’t ask me, it’s- it’s got all
little things on it that she likes, it’s a touch phone, an iphone it
is EOS yeah, she’s got an iphone, so she’s quite happy with that EOS
erm, and it’s- sh- it’s not the latest one, she says, ‘I don’t want
the latest one Mam, because, it’s only just come out and then they’ll
find out all the problems and this, that and the other EOS she says,
‘so I’ll wait a- a bit and then I might in two years I’ll update it
again’ EOS she says, ‘but I’m happy with this one now and it does this
and it does-’ oh, she spends hours messing about, but, in saying about
the- that’s got it in, so she gets her emails through that anyway EOS
so- cos she’s been saying to me, ‘ooh, I got a birthday card off
**anon** and erm, I’ve got, erm, one off-’ who er- can’t remember who
else, but she got birthday cards sent to her over the erm EOS erm,
internet on her facebook and that EOS so she was quite chuffed about
that so, she’s erm, yeah she’s- she makes me laugh though s- to text,
yeah EOS that’s it, th- th- they are good, if you’re into gadgets EOS
but I’m not into gadgets, I can’t- one- me eyes are bad, and, even my
phone I’ve got now EOS I’m like this, and I’m putting two pairs of
glasses on reading it, so to start messing about and trying to learn
EOS how to do this, that and the other on a phone, that- I’m gonna
struggle to see anyway EOS it doesn’t seem worth it to me, as long as
I can text and phone, that’s all I’m bothered about EOS I mean I can’t
even use the camera properly on this or- or the, erm, I c- I- it’s-
you can change the length of time EOS I still can’t do it I take a
picture, it’s funny, I take a picture like that, and I press the
button and I go like that to look at it, and then it’ll go ‘click’ EOS
but I’ve moved- it’s like a delayed thing on it EOS and I don’t know
how to get it off EOS so I can’t even take a proper picture when I
want to, it ends up something else cos I’ve moved the- probably, but I
never use that either I never- I never put them in to see- and actu-
read through it, yeah EOS under- I know EOS I g- I always go, ‘what
does that mean?’ , ‘what’s that word there, what does it mean?’ EOS oh
God, but that’s it, it takes me that long to read summet I’ve got fed
up with it EOS I know, I m- that is- that is true, it’s like me, I was
scared of the laptop, I was scared to death breaking it EOS yeah, and,
I think that came from when I was working and I was ill and I was in
the office this time and they said, ‘oh, just put these facts and
figures in’ I says, ‘oh I don’t know anything’, ‘oh, we’ll show you’,
‘I- I’m scared of losing the data’, ‘you can’t lose the data’, fine,
fair enough, and they showed me how to do this, and I was doing it for
weeks, and then I got cocky, starting- trying to play about with it
EOS and the next minute it all went off and I says, ‘ooh, there’s
summet- ooh’ I says, ‘you said I can’t lose this data didn’t you’,
‘yeah’, ‘oh, well, come and sort it out then, cos it’s all gone black’
and the next minute he goes, ‘I don’t believe it Harriet **anon**
you’ve lost EOS I says, ‘you told me I couldn’t do that’ I says, ‘so
it’s your fault, it’s not mine’ EOS yeah, it was, and the thing was I
was dead worried but, because he’d said, ‘oh no, you’re alright, it-
you can’t lose it’ EOS I got cocky and I thought, ‘ooh, well I can’t
do any damage’, so you start messing round- and he’d says to me EOS
‘just have a go, keep playing with it and learning, and you’ll become
more confident’, so I did EOS and then I lost everything EOS and he
said, ‘no, just keep to what you was doing before, just put the data
in’, ‘right’ but, that’s why when I got mine it was, you know,
viruses, all I heard about was virus- say I put a virus in it, I don’t
know how you- I could put a virus in it but and so it was touching the
odd key like that, ‘ooh what’s happened, what-’ and that’s all you got
out of me for the first month, ‘ooh, what’s happened, what’ve I done,
what’ve I done’ but you need to learn what the keys do and what they
don’t do EOS and that was my problem, our **anon** was saying to me
ages ago, he’s texting me, you know, when he- and he- he’s on facebook
and he’s- leaving me a message and- and the name pops up, and then you
type in there and I thought EOS ‘ooh right’, so I typed some- he says,
‘just type in at the bottom’ so I just typed in at the bottom and then
I thought, ‘right, now what do I do with it?’ and, I clicked on it and
it went off, and I did this, that and in the end I went a- the long
way round EOS to text him what I’d just wrote in that square cos I
couldn’t send it to him, I didn’t know how to send it EOS and then,
who was it **anon**, granddaughter, yeah, ‘you press that Nanna’
‘right, okay’, but I was coming out of that EOS getting his name up
and going the long way round because I didn’t know how to send EOS in
that, it- and, it- unless you know what all the keys do EOS yeah, the
best of it is I went to erm, the erm, oh what’s it EOS in Eccles and
they were doing computer courses for free EOS and if you went regular
and you passed through the course, they’d give you a computer, wh- you
know EOS and you could keep it for so long and then pay fifty pound
for it, something like that EOS I thought, ‘ooh, I’ll get a computer’
and, I was going there learning and I h- I had a file and me discs and
everything and I started to learn a bit EOS but then I think she was
off ill and I’d gone all the way to Eccles a couple of weeks, and
nobody had bothered ringing me and kept saying, ‘ooh, she’s not here
this week, she’s not come in’, ‘oh, she’s not’ and in the end I just
sacked it EOS otherwise- but thinking about it, I only found all that
information in the disc when was it, was it yesterday or the day
before when I was looking for something for **anon** EOS so I might
get that out and put it in and start EOS trying to learn a bit more
EOS but like I say, I’m sure it has the keyboard EOS it- on it EOS
what’s a floppy disc? like erm- like a CD? I thought they- I thought
EOS that’s what I’ve got EOS you know from my computer course, that’s
what it is EOS that’s what I’m saying, the technology nowadays is
changing that fast EOS people who are a bit slow, it’s very hard EOS
to catch up EOS do you know what I mean? I- probably, I’ll get dead
good, on the computer and the laptop, and then they’ll go and change
it to something else and I’ll have to start from scratch, and it’s I-
you give up in the end, I- I do EOS eh well, we’ll see EOS yeah, like
I say, I’m gonna keep trying and erm, so that floppy EOS what makes me
laugh, is why do they call it floppy cos it’s as stiff as a board EOS
why if- if- if I’ve got one of them would I be able to put it in my
computer, it is a computer, it’s not a- a laptop EOS right, cos I
might have a go at that EOS and erm, try and learn a bit more we even
went, me and our **anon**, he says erm, ‘oh, there’s a computer course
starting’ so being, he says, ‘right’ I says, ‘I’ll come with you’ he
asks me, I says ‘yeah, okay, I’ll come with you’, and it was in
**anon** EOS so I got us on, we went down we was- th- there was only
me and him there and the tutor and, we did this course, then the week
after, it was really bad storms, I think it was advised, if you didn’t
have to go out, don’t go out EOS so I says, ‘we’re not going **anon**,
I’m not going in this, it’s really too bad, and I don’t want you
driving up here’, ‘right, okay’, so the week after that, we went
again, ‘oh, they’ve cancelled it’, you know, ‘not enough people turned
up’ EOS I didn’t even do that, cos a lot of people now have- are
learning off EOS because the kids are doing it in school now EOS the
kids are showing the parents how to use a computer EOS well, you’ll
have to find that EOS cause that might do me EOS that might help me
EOS upload mean? Yeah, I’m like that EOS cause I- I d- I don’t know
how to- you can put things on a disc can’t you? you know, if you
wanted erm, say a song EOS and you put a disc in and you could b- you
can do that, or, any information you can put on a disc, I can’t do
things like that, I don’t know h- I’ve got the facility EOS but, I
don’t know how to do it EOS and that’s something I would like to do,
cos I’d like to be able to EOS and you know, even, you know, different
things EOS I’d love to be able to do that EOS but I don’t know how to
do that EOS what it is- yeah, but what it is, because it’s a computer,
and it’s a complicated piece of equipment, you look at it, and you go,
‘ooh, I don’t know how to do this’, ‘ooh, I can I-’ because you think
it’s gonna be EOS and then when someone shows you, you go, ‘oh, is
that it’ and EOS you’re dead surprised EOS it’s so simple EOS but,
because you’re looking at this equipment and you’re thinking, ‘it must
be complicated’ EOS like you say, you’re mind goes blank, it’s like a
mental block EOS and you don’t see the simple little things that come
up that say, ‘just press here’, or ‘just do thi-’ EOS y- it- you don’t
see it, it’s like a mental blindness cos y- you EOS you don’t see it
EOS click, click, click, to for that, yeah EOS yeah I’ll have to get
stuck in me and erm, try a bit harder, get to know everything properly
EOS right how are we doing? good, cos I’m bursting for a pee