One, two, three. Er shall I start? Oh, skipping Erm there was one
called erm Rallyvo. Used to throw a ball at the wall er and try and
hit you with it, I think EOS Hopscotch. That was always a good one.
Used to play horses EOS me friends used to gallop round the
playground. That was always a good one. And we used to play- no. Just
used to chase and make this noise . What did you play? Erm right,
erm-. That’s not good. Oh my god what? Oh my god! That’s terrible. Oh
we didn’t. Well my very favourite game was playing school in my
friend’s shed. That used to be brilliant. Used to be four of us. Great
times. I was always the teacher. Cos I was the oldest . Anyway, did
you help out around the house a lot, when you were a kid? Well we did.
Setting fire to the grass. I’m surprised you’re not in prison now. I’m
surprised you’re not in prison now. killing rabbits, yeah. Oh my god.
Oh my god Right then. Loved it, it was great fun Big thing was getting
all the- it used to be a really big thing if you used to get a new pad
and pencils and pens and- used to share them all out and used to set
homework and- It was good fun, used to love it. Had a blackboard in
there as well, and- cos I was the oldest, and that was a time, I
remember running home, I was only about ten or eleven and I was in a
rush, they were all waiting for me at the door. And I tripped over a
EOS over the banister, and fell down the stairs from top to bottom and
broke my arm. Remember that, yeah I was about ten, ten or eleven years
old when that happened. Yes I did. I did hit my head, but- there was
no lasting damage. No lasting damage anyway. So you didn’t do anything
to help out at home? Nothing at all? We had to, to get spends. So if
we didn’t do our jobs, we didn’t get spends. End of. God what a
different childhood we had. An awful lot. Yeah, yes I did. Erm what is
your best or funniest memory from when you were a child? What at home?
We used to have to Ewbank the carpet, cos I wasn’t allowed to use the
hoover cos I used into bang into the furniture too much with it. A
Ewbank- A Ewbank is like a hoover with no motor. Used to push it up
and down, up and down, up and down. No, no No used to just push it up
and down up and down, it used to hoover everything but without a
motor. It had brushes on it. So I used to have to Ewbank the carpet
and then we used to have to polish, but EOS No we didn’t used to make
the noise of the hoover, no we didn’t. Erm, yeah polishing, washing
pots. But we had to do that properly. Otherwise, if we didn’t do it
properly, then we didn’t get our EOS She used to dock us money. Erm-.
oh n- now no I’m talking about in th- in the seventies. Everyone had a
Ewbank. Did you not? I remember you had a Ewbank. But you and me have
been together thirty odd years, so yeah I remember when me and you
were courting. You had a Ewbank in your house. I’m sure it was orange.
or that could’ve been mine EOS Well you wouldn’t have used it because
you didn’t do anything to help your mum. But- yes you did! he used to
make fairy cakes with his mum. Well what is it then? So did you used
to cook with your mum? And what did you used to make? Ah. And what
happened, what did your brothers used to do to you? And they used to-?
And called him a girl. No you’re quite right. I’m a professional! Lots
and lots of stories. Yes he did. My grandfather was known as the
storyteller. In our house, wasn’t he? About how he was lost at sea in
the merchant navy for a year, and presumed dead. and then he just
turned up. Yes it was, was it not in the war? I can’t remember. My
granddad was **anon** they lived in er EOS He did not desert! He did
not desert. He wasn’t- he was captured, his ship got blown up and they
were rescued and- and then they lived somewhere, I can’t remember. No,
no they weren’t. Oh you’re talking about that granddad. My EOS He was
a deserter. I think so. I don’t know the whole story about that but
EOS he changed- changed his name, the- the spelling of the surname so
they couldn’t trace him or something. But I don’t know why they did
that. I don’t know, anyway. How about your family? Yeah, and we all
believed him. And what was the hole really? And we all believed him.
When I first started going out with Martin **anon** he told me he’d
been shot in the neck. I was fifteen and er for maybe twenty years, is
it twenty years, I believed him. All that time. That he’d been shot in
the neck, but his mum was shot, she had shap- shrapnel in her legs,
she’s **anon** Martin’s **anon** mum. And er when the- when the planes
came over, and the- they were shooting in the fields or something,
weren’t they? the English yeah in a field. yeah. She told us some
right stories, your mum didn’t she? From- she had it really hard.
There’s I think nine of them, wasn’t there? Something- was there nine
brothers and sisters. And it really, really hard eating frozen
potatoes out of the ground when they were kids. And yeah, in Germany
Mm must’ve been hard for her. mmhmm, erm, how many brothers and
sisters do you have? And did you get along with each other when you
were kids? So you were picked on by all of them. I used to batter my
brother, seven years between us. I used to batter him all the time EOS
Make him do things to- for me, or I’d torture him. He was only little.
Oh how horrible! Still don’t get on now EOS No that’s not true. That’s
not true, we do get on, so EOS It’s it’s- give me your wrist and I’ll
show you. No well you used to grab the wrists with your two hands EOS
and you used to go like that. And it used to burn. Used to twist the
skin on your wrist EOS Yes. In opposite directions, and you used to
scream. But my most favourite one to do with him EOS was the cow bite.
Was to grab him like that and squeeze dead hard, until he’d shift from
the chair. We always used to fight where we used to sit you see. So-
that’s what we used to do. I’m sure my brother used to hate me. and I
used to think it was funny and he used to scream. But then me dad
would always intervene and I’d get battered off me dad. I’m gonna ask
him when I see him now EOS Oh, ouch. She’s quite torturous, his
mother. Isn’t she, she’s- threw a turtle on the fire. Cos she thought
it was dead and it was hibernating. No No it’s not. Now there was the
kitten down the toilet. She told me she used to put kittens- oh no in
a bucket of water. When she was- when they were a kid on the farm.
There were too many cats. That’s what her dad used to do. dunk them in
a bucket of water. Didn’t she? Squished its head. That was horrible.
And the budgie. On your cup of tea, he’d stand on your cup of tea.
Didn’t he? Not very good at keeping animals were you really? We had a
cat called Ginger and my dad used to call him fleabag. And he got run
over and lost his leg, his front paw. and he used to be full of fleas
EOS Fleabag, ‘go away fleabag!’ Used to go mad at him, always clawing.
I had a guinea pig when I was really little. Me dad hated that as
well. Mm. He died. He just used to hate him, he used to say he was
dead noisy. But that was from when I was really little, when I lived
in **anon**. And I left there when I was seven or eight, I think I
was. I remember the hutch in the back- in the back yard next to the
toilet. Cos we had an EOS Can’t remember really, I was only little.
But we had an inside one as EOS No no, two up, two down. No there was
a toilet outside and then there was my mum and dad’s bedroom and then
there was my bedroom and then there was a wall with a door in that me
dad put up and there was a toilet in there. Upstairs but you had to
come through my bedroom to get to the toilet. It was the toilet
upstairs. Definitely. With glass at the top and this studded wall.
Horrible it was. Did you not have an inside toilet? That toilet that
you’ve got now? That’s an inside toilet. You’ll be saying newspaper
next. No you did not. That’s not true! Oh we used to have, Izal. Izal
was paper. It was horrible. It was, you had to scrunch it all up
first. Oh it EOS We were posher than Martin **anon** in our family EOS
because we went to-. Yes we did and we went to Majorca EOS when I was
little. With me **anon** and **anon** on a plane and I was about eight
or nine. And I remember sitting next to the pool eating EOS Rings,
chewy rings. Got- still got the photographs of that. I had an orange
and yellow dress on, that me nanna made. Mm, and a towelling bikini,
with spots EOS Roll of squid. I remember- I remember it really, really
well. No we weren’t calling them that, it was squid. Yeah, remember
it. We did go on one. Only one foreign holiday. No, no that was when I
was a bit older cos like I say with being Mediterranean in the family,
we all had wine. Two fingers EOS two fingers of wine in the glass,
topped up with lemonade or water. That was only one, with me **anon**
and me **anon** that I remember that EOS No we didn’t get holiday
every year. Isle of Man. I remember going to the Isle of Man. did you
not used to go to **anon**? Oh my god. Watching your granddad die. Oh
god . You had a terrible childhood didn’t you? Oh my god it was a bit
of a flipping- Do you know what I did do which was really bad? This is
terrible this. He bought my mum- there used to be a chocolate bar
called a nutty. And it- it was like caramel- that’s what they were
called, do you remember nuttys? And it was caramel EOS and it was
wrapped in like peanuts and he bought it me mum for mother’s day and
kept it in the cupboard. He bought it with his spends. And I’ll never
forget, oh I can’t believe I did this, but I stole it and I ate it.
Cos I wanted this chocolate bar so, so much. And I denied all
knowledge for- it was up until a couple of years ago. I told him the
truth. He always used to say to me, ‘you did take that nutty, didn’t
you?’ And I used to go, ‘no I didn’t!’ and I did. And it was only a
few years ago when- cos I go and visit him maybe once a year. Or once
every two years, I can’t- and I told him the truth. And he was really
upset with me. Yeah, cos he EOS give it her for mother’s day. I got
her milk tray. And I can- I remember I got my mum a box of milk tray
and you got a free happy mother’s day card with it. And when she died
she still- when we were going through all her stuff, we found it,
she’d kept it all that time. All that time, she kept it. And this
little card as well, best mum in the world. Couldn’t believe she kept
it all that time. I was a very nice daughter. oh don’t tell her that!
Yes I remember. I can’t remember now. I can’t remember why. No I can
remember, I can remember doing it very clearly. Oh I can’t- I can’t
remember why I did that now. Why you annoyed me so much. Why, tell me
why! Cos you didn’t get me one? I can’t remember. Er where are your
parents from? Oh we’ve established that really, No go on! Where are
your parents from? But you and your brother are spitting image of each
other! With your big freaky head. He had a huge head. Yeah with the
biggest afro you’ve ever seen in your life, it used to EOS Your head,
your hair used to move before your head did. . your brother told me!
He said your head- your afro was that big it used to wave in the EOS I
don’t know. So where’s your dad from? My dad was born in Salford.
Wasn’t he? And lived in **anon**. M’: That’s a nice move that, isn’t
it? There was a toilet upstairs, there was a toilet upstairs. It was
not a slum! Knocking the houses down, because my dad used to work for
a company EOS Erm and I think the houses, I’m not- I’m not too sure
about that. I know all the houses were originally built for the
factories weren’t they, that were there. For the factory workers. But
I’m sure it was my mum and dad’s house. You know I’m pretty sure it
was and they moved us to **anon**. Cos they were pulling them all
down. But they didn’t pull them down for about five years, did they?
Moved everybody out and then didn’t pull them down EOS But happy,
happy childhood my best friends, **anon**, **anon** and **anon** used
to live across the road. Yeah, I remember that, playing with the prams
having races down the street with our prams. Playing cricket in the
entry. Couldn’t play cricket now but . I can catch a ball. I can catch
a ball. Oh here we go again. He was on holiday, he was throwing this
ball at me in the sea, and he was skidding it so it was like that, ‘.’
EOS And it was splashing all the water in your face. Well you’re like
that shutting your eyes, and you can’t catch a ball with your eyes
shut. Him and **anon** played for-. Throwing it at each other. For
about an hour, nearly put your shoulder out. So yes I can catch a ball
EOS **anon** in particular. Oh that’s okay. She’s- she was terrible.
She’s really, really evil. Used to- she had a knack, she used to throw
the board rubber and she used to get you EOS It just- it- there had to
be complete silence in the classroom and if you dared ask someone next
to you for a pencil or- oh my god, you used to get it. And you used to
have to stand in the corner- there was a teacher called er **anon**
and your nose had to be on the wall, like that which- just stand
there, all through the lesson. Until she was ready for you to sit back
down. She was evil, horrible woman, horrible. That’d be child abuse
now I’m sure it would be. Can’t touch them now. Erm, how about you at
school? He’s really clever he went to a grammar school, didn’t you? I
loved my school, **anon**, and then **anon**. A little bit yeah Mm, I
did. You used to- but- but you used to be a bully at school. Is that
not a bully? You used to batter anyone? And you were the top of the
pack, were you? Suppose yeah, it is. I remember my first day at
secondary school. When I was eleven. I do remember that. Me nanna and
granddad bought me this bloody briefcase. I just wanted a backpack,
like everyone else. That’s all I wanted was this backpack. But my
nanna and granddad- well it was me granddad, he’d gone to London to
see his mother. And it was them in the house that had give him this
briefcase that used to be my uncle’s. Oh god and it was brown and it
was horrible, with this big buckle thing on the front, oh I hated it
so much, and I had to take it to school. And they just laughed their
heads off at EOS I hated it. Hated it so much. What did you have? Oh
Martin **anon** it was awful. It was brown, like dark- like- like a
tan brown. It was so noticeable. Oh and it used to make this clicking
noise, oh god. Yeah you couldn’t even open it quiet EOS you couldn’t
even open it quiet. everyone used to look. My lovely pencils. Cos I
used to love my pencils and my felt tip EOS And my books. And me
dinner tickets. I was dead skinny then I was, I was really skinny. I
did yeah. I am a catering manager thank you very much. I manage the
kitchen. I manage my cook, and my washer uppers. I do cooking, I do
the c- I do the main meals, yes. Yeah, things like rice pudding,
tapioca, erm lemon sponge and custard. Chocolate sponge with mint
custard, that’s one of the EOS Er no it’s a mint- it’s a mint erm
essence. It’s a pure- pure mint essences we use. Erm it’s a food
colourant. Yeah but we use one teaspoon for four gallons of custard.
It is cos it only ever hi- hi- a tinge of green, if I make it too
green, they won’t have it. If you took it neat? I’m sure it would do
irreparable damage to your insides. But watered down- well they do say
if you eat beta carotene, which is a natural food colourant in
carrots, that it is in tanning tablets and that’s what makes you go
brown. If you take enough of them, yeah EOS You’re very weird. No I
don’t. yeah, that’s a very, very weird thing to ask. Anyway what else
do I make? Make all sorts of favourites, cobbler, minced beef cobbler
they like. When I was at school? I never bullied EOS yeah I never
bullied at school. I was bullied. No I was never- I never ever bullied
at school. But my favourite thing at school was gypsy pie. It was the
best thing ever. My mum tried to make it and she could never make it
the same. Gypsy pie is pastry, jam, and then a mixture of desiccated
coconut and golden syrup. And one or two other bits and bobs in it.
And cornflakes, all mished together and you put it on top and it’s EOS
Couldn’t eat it now. But er- and we used to have er mince and onion
pie as well EOS at school with mashed potatoes and gravy. That was
another big, big favourite, cos my mum never used to make pies. I used
to love that What was yours? I used to love them EOS Cos you used to
get seconds. Jam and rice pudding’s the big favourite at my school.
They love it, one of their favourite, favourite puddings. Oh do you
remember them? I used to love that, shortbread with chocolate on the
top, wasn’t it? I used to love them EOS Yeah used to say, ‘dundee’
underneath didn’t they? Sugar on it EOS You never had one? oh my god!
my, God Martin **anon**. And do you know what he used to do as well,
when he was little? It’s EOS They er- they had a corner shop. And they
used to climb over the wall, pinch the bottles, take the bottles, come
back over, go into the front of the shop, give the shop keeper the
bottles and we used to get five p back for them EOS was it five p or a
penny or something. For his own- for his own- from his own bottles.
Terrible, you were really bad you EOS Yeah, erm. In your opinion, how
has your community changed in recent years? Oh it’s changed loads
hasn’t it? Dog poo! Dog poo’s not white any more. Because it’s the
bones. The bonemeal that used to be in dog food. And they stopped
doing it because of, is it BSM? BS- BS- oh what’s it called? Mad cow
disease. Are you sure I thought that’s why they stopped doing them. So
yeah, you don’t see white dog poo any more. Apart from my dog, who
only has white dog poo. Cos all he eats is raw chicken EOS and bones,
doesn’t he? Er **anon** he was the headmaster. This is in secondary
school, I liked him. He was always really kind, Firm but kind. We used
to do something well and he a- he always used to give you sweets. We
used to have a sweet called mojos. And he used to give us a mojo to
eat. Used to love curly wurlys as well. And fudge. Fudges and curly
wurlys, yeah, and I used to love pear drops, they were my favourites
and my dad used to get cough candies for work and I always used to
pinch them . You never used to get any did you not? Who was your best
friends? And they used to get sweets. Oh was she that bad? and you
didn’t know why they were laughing? in front of your mates? How old
were you? Oh get lost! how old were you? Did she smell? ooh, where
does she live? that was my address you liar! No it was not. Do you
know her now? We’ve still got a lot of friends that still live in the
community though, haven’t we? Still live in the same place. All our
lives really. we’re still friendly- few- quite a few friends have
moved away, haven’t they? **anon** moved away to where is he Leek? Is
it Leek? yeah Leek. He’s moved away. **anon** just moved to Cornwall
and- But still a lot of friends-. We’re turning into them, yeah. Forty
six, forty seven, yeah. We’re classed as middle aged now aren’t we?
Yeah single parent’s thing, yeah. Yeah, where all our kids were
christened. Oh, just reminded me- yeah. You just reminded me then when
er- when I- we used to- Yeah when I- Is now empty all the time. Full
of little scabby kids, isn’t it now? Scary, it’s horrible. We don’t go
in. Er but, talking about that old people’s place, when I went to
**anon** we all used to have to go and do stuff in the community like
help a EOS and me and one of my friends, **anon** **anon** we used to
have to go to the- that old people’s home on a- on a Saturday or
Sunday and just do something for folk, you know just EOS have a chat
or EOS go and walk round the garden with one of them. **anon**,
**anon** her name was, the lady we had. Then she died. No she gave me
an ornament, I always remember that. I dunno what happened to it
though, a little- She gave it to me! She gave one to me. She gave one
to me and she gave one to **anon**. Little fairy thing it was. All
chipped and battered. Cos we always used to dust her ornaments for
her. No she gave them you. Pinching from blooming shop keepers. she
was old, no, used to push her round in her wheelchair in the EOS In
the wheelchair around the garden. Cos they used to have big rose beds
didn’t they, do you remember? Yeah they were lovely. What was it
called? **anon** that’s it. Yeah old people’s- for old people. Used to
have like a community room as well downstairs. With a tv and-. Yeah.
It was it was lovely. No it’s horrible.