right, we’re okay, oh, what was your best- what was your best or
funniest memory when you were young? I don’t know, erm, go on, if you
can think of anything you go first EOS that’s your thing EOS I think-
I think erm, I think mine is erm, going on erm, going on holiday, erm,
to Fleetwood, Knot End EOS erm, paddling in the paddling pool at Knot
End I think that’s- that’s one of my earliest memories when I was EOS
only- when I was only little EOS you know, but that was a great
adventure to go to EOS to Knot End EOS yeah, go on holiday, yeah EOS
oh, well I went to Fleetwood EOS as well cos I had relatives that
lived there so EOS that was erm, that was good EOS oh right, she never
did EOS no, I don’t know- I don’t know how we- we did it because me
Dad was out of work for ten years EOS when I was- when I was born, you
know and erm EOS so erm, there was no money coming in cos you were
means tested then EOS and- that’s going off the subject that isn’t it
EOS yeah, yeah, well, yes, we can EOS yeah erm, were there lots of
kids to play with when you were growing up? No not, no, I didn’t- no I
didn’t have- no, well I lived in Wythenshawe, I was born in
Wythenshawe EOS and erm, lived there all me life ‘til getting married
but there weren’t- weren’t very many children EOS no, no, not at all,
no. Did you have to help out around the house? No no, not at all, I
had an- what did you do in your free time? what did you and your
family do in free time when you’re growing up? I were mainly involved
with church work, boys- girls brigade and- and the choir, and Sunday
school, and- that was- were you? oh were you EOS here you are, what
games did you play as a kid? oh I’d a- I’d a- a scooter, you know EOS
oh I, yes, I had a bike that was second hand EOS first time on it I
went down the kerb and fell off it EOS didn’t have any brothers and
sisters EOS can you remember a good story that your par- grandparents
used tell you oh, I don’t know about that, erm, oh EOS that’s right
yes EOS one- o- one story- yeah, erm, yeah, when erm when th- do you
remember when Manchester was bombed EOS well that night of that raid,
erm, it was, I think it was a Saturday because we were going to church
the following morning, and church was in Moss Side EOS and of course
that’d got badly hit, and when I got to Sunday school, the Sunday
school t- our- my Sunday school teacher, **anon** wasn’t there and
nobody knew where she was and erm, there was a search went out for
her, and her house had been bombed EOS and they found her, in her bed,
three streets away EOS in the loft of another house EOS and I can- I
can remember that EOS oh right, right EOS did you get hurt whilst
playing when you were a kid? yeah, but a- but not- not badly- not
badly hurt, I was never badly- I had a lot of illnesses and erm, spent
a lot of time off school erm, so consequently when me Mother took me
back, unfortunately the teacher we had didn’t think there was any
point in teaching me cos I’d missed too much school EOS and so I could
sit at the back of the class, and what I took in, I took in, and what
I didn’t, I didn’t, so she wasn’t interested in EOS no I just had all
the ailments, measles, chicken pox, whooping cough, all the- all the
lot I had one after the other EOS oh I had German meas- I remember the
doctor coming and saying, ‘why couldn’t you’ve had English measles,
cos we’re fighting the Germans’ EOS remember playing marbles and- oh
right, so did you loss them EOS you lost them, oh dear EOS no, no, I
bet, no EOS no, I bet he wasn’t your- you weren’t his favourite either
EOS no erm, right, what’s the next one EOS where did you go to school?
I went to school in **anon**, that’s where I was born, school was only
round the corner, I went from being five, to being fifteen, I never
passed any exams, so I was just at the same school, just went from one
end of the field, to the other end of the field, infants and juniors
and seniors, that- that was me, until I left at fifteen EOS I didn’t
enjoy school, as you can guess with missing out so much, so my school
days were not particularly happy days at all EOS mm, and I don’t
remember me first day at school at all EOS no, I wasn’t either, no EOS
and then funnily enough I went into another school, nursing schools,
so I was at school again yeah EOS were you ever blamed for something
that wasn’t your fault? oh, at three EOS oh right what were your
summer holidays like? Well summer EOS as I say were, during the war
and that it was very difficult really wasn’t it EOS so I don’t know
my- how my parents managed to take me on holiday but we- we always
went as I say, usually Clevelees, Fleetwood, round there stay with
erm, a relative did get as far as Torquay once EOS that’s right, yeah,
yeah EOS remember Mum used to send a trunk on, in advance EOS yeah and
then take erm, provisions with us EOS mm, went to Wales, did remember
going to Wales to Capel Curig in W- during the war, and we stayed with
this erm, lady, I think it was a farm, because we couldn’t believe the
meals we were getting EOS there were joints of meat EOS and sides of
bacon and EOS all the things that we didn’t get EOS at home, you know,
it was erm, absolutely wonderful for a week, so I don’t know how we
managed that, I’ve no idea about that one erm, activities at school?
No, the only thing I did at school was music, I didn’t mind that cos
that was the only thing I was interested in, no sports at all, or
drama EOS oh yeah, yeah EOS oh right, yeah EOS I remember **anon**
saying about **anon** because he was born in erm, in Salford, yeah EOS
yeah he went to school in Salford EOS oh did you EOS he went to erm
EOS ooh, I can’t remember its name now no, can’t remember its name,
can remember he went to **anon** church EOS well his- his- his Dad was
EOS cause his Dad was **anon**, he took the name **anon** EOS for his
confirmation you know EOS I know that- I know they lived for a part on
**anon** EOS Weast and then he lived somewhere else as well, cos his
Mum had a EOS but I can’t remember where that was, it was an off
license and EOS but erm I can’t remember- I can’t remember me teachers
can’t remember their names no EOS well, that was me- that was me music
teacher erm EOS oh right, oh we didn’t do languages EOS I shouldn’t
think she’ll be alive now EOS oh yeah, yeah, well that was a bit like
the one EOS who decided I wasn’t worth teaching EOS so, and I can’t
remember her name, no way EOS he must’ve been, mustn’t he EOS right,
where are your parents from EOS well, my paren- my Mother was from
Manchester, she was from erm, an area in Moss Side, and my Father my
Father was born, erm, in Liverpool EOS erm, how has your community
changed in recent- well I don’t know about the community in
Wythenshawe, I think that’s erm, that’s changed quite a bit
unfortunately it got a bad reputation but erm, when my parents went-
moved from Moss Side to Wythenshawe they were asked, would they like
to go and live in the ga- the new garden EOS which was Wythenshawe and
they erm, they moved to there, and there erm, house, and did they want
the one with the kitchen on the front or did- and the living room, or
did they want the one with a front parlour and a living room- yeah one
was erm, the one with the kitchen on the front was ten shillings a
week, and the other one was ten and six, so they had to have the ten
shilling one EOS because me Dad was out of work EOS yeah, yeah and
they- they spent all the- all their life and I did, right until I
married EOS oh did you EOS what’s taken places in your town? Ooh, I
don’t know EOS Manchester’s changed a lot hasn’t it really EOS and
Salford has hasn’t it EOS it was Salford docks EOS that’s right, yeah
EOS yeah, Salford docks, there was a pub on- there was supposed to be
a pub on every corner and you could- you could never complete it could
you EOS you could never complete the- the circuit could you EOS yeah,
that was a- yeah, I remem- I remember that erm- we didn’t but I EOS
just remember that saying, you know, that erm- that’s right, yeah,
yeah, erm, it’s nice to see that they’ve left the two cranes really,
part of the heritage at erm, Salford docks, don’t EOS you know, cos I
mean, most of it’s gone now hasn’t it? yeah, yeah, yeah, **anon** was
amazed to see EOS you know, he did live to see all that erm, that
change, you know, and EOS he was quite pleased with how they’d- they’d
changed it and- it is really, isn’t it EOS and the way they’ve cleaned
up the canal and EOS everywhere round there, Manchester, I think
Manchester’s EOS I don’t think that’s done any the better- for the
better EOS I think Manchester’s gone down- I don’t think so, no, no
EOS Piccadilly gardens, it used to be lovely EOS we used to spend
hours there in the garden EOS now it’s just a EOS mess and a down-and-
out’s place really isn’t it EOS I don’t- I don’t think Manchester’s
got a lot to shout about at the EOS what local events, news, history
do you think is important people EOS I mean there’s lots EOS incidents
and events, yeah, yeah, there was a lot went on really EOS and there’s
a lotta well known people EOS cam from Salford and Manchester didn’t
they EOS I don’t think they’re remembered as they erm, as they should
be EOS but erm, and the whit walks and things like that, you know, I
mean, the saintly one EOS did you move house at all when you were
younger? No, we never moved house at all, so, no, it’s alright EOS
what fun things are there to do in your community? What, this
community here we’re in, now EOS well, there’s quite a lot we’re erm,
always going on about EOS mm yeah we have quite a- a few things really
EOS that we’re involved in aren’t we EOS we have events at church,
don’t we? and we go to the **anon** Theatre regularly EOS and we go to
The Lowry EOS theatre, don’t we? regularly, erm, we support Macmillan,
there events at erm, Trafford EOS erm, you have a group that you go to
EOS I go to a- a little theatre in **anon** that’s been going for
years, I go there regularly with erm, with some friends what else have
we got erm it’s a shame our local, erm, just in this- off the EOS
**anon**, that has closed now for el- older people, erm we used to go
there on a Thursday, didn’t we EOS and that was really good EOS but
erm, the cost of hire of the room and everything, it’s erm, they’ve
had to shut down after, what was it, fifty years EOS fifty years
they’ve been going EOS so a lot of the old people were really upset
about that EOS have you lived anywhere else other than the town, city
where you live now? I lived not far away from here, I’ve only been
here for three years, I did live erm, from Wythenshawe I went to- when
I first married I went and lived in Cheadle EOS mm, with me first
husband, yes I was quite posh, I went and lived there, erm, but that
marriage, erm, failed- oh I lived in, when I was nursing, I lived at
erm, Bowden at, do you remember d- yeah, yeah, yeah, do you remember
**anon** Hospital? it’s a- it was a n- like a nursing home EOS you
went from **anon** EOS you could go into **anon** to recoup EOS and I-
I went- I lived there, I w- I was there when it was the Queen’s
coronation, cos I wanted to watch it on the- they had a television
there, and we didn’t have one, and I wanted to watch it but the matron
decided that would be my first night on nights, so I had to go to bed
that day, so I couldn’t see the EOS had to wait, to go home, and watch
it on me Mother’s friends, erm EOS you know, erm EOS yeah, but erm, so
I live- I lived there for a go- and then erm, then of course I- I
married- I married **anon** in nineteen-sixty, we lived in Wythenshawe
with me Mum for a while, and then we got the house just in **anon**
EOS you know, watched that being built and- and moved there and then
three years ago I came here so EOS mm, that’s right, yeah EOS what are
local people like? Very nice EOS yeah, yes, we can’t say anything
other than that really can we EOS no, I suppose we’re fortunate in
having a good group of people really aren’t we EOS especially in th-
in this square, yeah EOS yes they do, yeah EOS yeah, we find that
really EOS yeah, I think we have