You start off Fearne **anon** then. Were you happy at school? were
you, mm EOS You’re right, yeah. Yes. mm, yeah, yeah EOS Were you,
yeah? yeah, yeah, mm EOS And did you have what our school had, an
outside toilet? But it was cold in the winter EOS Yeah, mm, yeah. You
wouldn’t forget if you did, no EOS mm, you’ve been to Scot- yeah yeah.
Yeah yeah, yeah EOS Yeah yeah, yeah, yeah EOS Were you happy at
school? I hate- I hated it EOS Yeah yeah mm EOS Yes, that’s it- You’ve
got another brother, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It says here did you ever
get you ever get into trouble at school? No you didn’t . Not really
no. See I- I- I started school at **anon**. Was only there a year and
me parents said it wasn’t suitable cos of me problem with me speech.
They used to hit me over the head with a ruler to get the words out
and it made you wo- And then I went to **anon**. I don’t know if
you’ve ever heard of EOS it’s a- I loved it there. There was two
ladies that’s all who taught you. I didn’t like school with having the
problem with speech. It was- you know- but erm I went and as soon as
I- I was fourteen I EOS I just didn’t like it. So did I get into
trouble? No I don’t think I did. The only t- I- yeah I got six of the
best once. Well I used to write d- I used to go to s- erm the school
that **anon** and there’s always a bully- and I was riding me bike
back to school and he stopped me and he made me give him a lift on my
crossbar. And when I got to school- oh I got stopped- we got stopped
on the way there by a policeman. ‘Which school do you go to?’ So I
told him and the middle of the afternoon I was in the headmaster’s
office and I got six of the best. Caned for doing that. And lookayat
the world today. Just with having someone on- on your bike. On your
crossbar. Mm. I- I liked me childhood days yes because I was l- lucky
that our house was only about the- a couple of hundred yards off a
farm. And I was always on there and I love animals. And me favourite
animal’s the cow. It’s so laid back and- just like that the cow you
know. So I spent a- a lot of my- my time with animals on- on the farm
you know. I once- yeah I was still at school and there was a c- c-
couple of farms not- short distance. And the farmer asked me to go to
the other farm and erm excuse me. I was walking it and there’s some
ditches where all the water drains in- and there was a man on a bike
acting suspicious. So I- I watched him and then I went on and I caught
a butterfly in me EOS He cycled up to me then and said ‘what have you
got in your hand?’ I said ‘a butterfly’ He said erm, ‘let it go! You
don’t know what it’s like t- to be fastened up’. So I did and erm I
went to the other farm and walking back I went to have a lookayin this
ditch. And I found erm clothes, prison clothes . It was an escaped
prisoner. So I left them and I went to the police station in Urmston
and they said ‘have a lookayat will you at this bookayand see if you
can find him’. And I found him and they gave me five shillings. S- so
erm I can u- understand the story now with the butterfly and EOS S- so
that was on- one of my school stories anyway and erm I suppose there’s
a lot isn’t there really. But it wasn’t bad. I enjoyed me school i- in
a way. And erm and I’m a great believer your life’s mapped out EOS
because on the piece of land I live now I lived in nineteen thirty.
But this is a modern house now and there was an old house on there.
And I didn’t know when I bought this house exactly where I’d lived. So
I do believe y- your life in a way your pattern of life is led. You
know because I’m going to end up where I started off you know EOS Mm.
Have you got any more Fearne **anon** then them that you’ve thought
EOS Yeah, yeah, yeah. Is your mother from L- Lancashire or out of the
county? mm, you don’t really know. Do you know what happened in those
days? They would never tell you EOS Your parents. They kept s- secret.
I erm- when I was five I went to my Grandma’s funeral in **anon**. And
you weren’t allowed to see anything so I- I was taken for a walk in
the village. It was a lovely village. There was a stream and it was a
beautiful village and I was only five. And all me life I had this
picture of this village and whenever I asked my parents what it was
called ‘what do you want to know for?’ And I must’ve been about
seventy and we had a motorhome then. And I said to my wife ‘come on.
I’m going to find- the name of this village’. I knew where one of the
ancestors lived and we went into this erm village and they said ‘oh
you’d better ask at the postoffice he’ll know’. So we went in the
postoffice, says ‘I can’t help you. I’ve only been here two weeks’. So
he didn’t know any of the villagers. So an- anyway in the end we did
find a person of the surname that we were looking for. So we went
round to this house and as we- and I said to me wife ‘get out and ask
this lady walking down the path if they know a **anon**’. So she got
out and this lady says ‘come on in it’s me mother’. Yeah. And she told
me the name of the village. So after about seventy years I went back
and it still looked the same to me. But they had secrets they wouldn’t
tell you. ‘W- what do you want to know for?’ And erm- So I’m half
Lancashire and half Yorkshire. Mother’s from Yorkshire. Near **anon**.
And me dad’s from **anon** and he was a joiner. Erm me- m- mother w-
worked in service. What was called service in those days. She more or
less lived in the house and was responsible for the house. Looking
after it. Cleaning it, meals, everything you know EOS and in those
days it was called service. And she worked in **anon** EOS Erm not
much about school is there at the moment? Well I’m not asking how old
you are Fearne **anon** but - Were you at school in the war or- or af-
or after? Oh you missed it. Well no you were born in the war. mm, mm,
mm EOS Mm oh yeah. Yeah. Well the war started didn’t it in nineteen
thirty nine. And I was at **anon** school then- which overlooked the
canal. Oh the boats that went along there they were fabulous you know
it’s- you don’t see them now. They’ve all gone. Massive big boats with
a- a- a tug a- at the front to pull it. T- t- tug at the back to
steady it back you know- and the bridge used to swing EOS and that was
good there th- for a- w- watching that you know. So I- I was at school
when the war started and erm it was a queer time because all the
street signs were moved. All the lights were taken awa- no lights were
allowed to be on. All the cars had to have a light with a slit in it
only. It was a- a weird place didn’t it. All the names went didn’t
they. They were taken away and- and where I lived in **anon** there
was a barrage balloon site on the corner. And the barrage balloon was-
it was f- f- filled with gas and when the airraid came it used to go
into the air to stop aircraft d- diving down. Because we lived a short
distance from **anon**- which was erm industry in the war. And erm-
and when the wind was- if the barrage balloon went up and it was windy
the ba- the barrage balloon used to sway into our- our back garden you
know and erm yeah. You just were frightened to death you know and they
erm and leading to **anon** was big oil drums on the side of the road-
with a out. And the Germans used to follow the ship c- canal from L-
Liverpool- when the- the moonlight was out you can be sure there’s
going to be a raid you know. And you used to f- f- follow the moon No
left channel EOS up the canal and if the wind was blowing to Trafford
Park they used to light these oil drums so a mass of smoke went over
the park and they couldn’t find it. Yeah. So erm- I think I’ve lived
in the best time cos radio was still new. T- television had been
thought of but it had been put on one side because of the war. Buses
were always on time. Weren’t they Fearne **anon**? If you went out for
a bus- it was there. And you can erm- it was you know. Now what are
the most important changes in- in a- in your town? Well it’s changed-
we have no cinemas left. They’ve gone because my youth I used to go to
the cinema about twice EOS And when I got a little bit older, do you
remember Urmston baths? Not the old one. Well the Urmston baths in the
winter. They used to empty the water EOS put a wooden floor over it.
And it was sprung like a proper dance floor and they had dancing every
Saturday and Wednesday. And they had a big bands. About a fifteen
piece band that came every EOS That was fun. And you daren’t drink cos
if you’d had a drink a girl wouldn’t dance EOS It was very strict in
those days. So yeah U- Urmston’s v- very busy now. Whereas I can- one-
one memory I’ve got in the school days when the war started was me
mother pushing the pram with my sister in- down to Urmston a blackout
c- c- curtaining you know. Cos we had orders. We hadn’t got to sh- sh-
show any lights at all and- you had to have your windows blacked out
so nobody could see and that is one of the memories I’ve got. And then
the bombs dropping round you. It was a bit of a hectic time wasn’t it.
You never got a night in bed- without you were i- in- in a- a air raid
sh- shelter. No. Ours- ours was in the house. There was an Anderson
shelter- you’ve- have you heard of an Anderson? It’s all cast- and
it’s all iron metal. With four sides and a metal top. So if the bomb-
house fell on it it wouldn’t- you’d be safe inside there you know. We
had a wired mesh all around it like an- animals . And that was called-
and that was inside ours. The Anderson shelter. Yeah so it looked like
a part of the garden. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah th- they were scary days
weren’t they in a way EOS You know cos you didn’t know what’s going to
happen. Well as I said I didn’t like school. I moved house once. I
moved from where I live now to **anon** another part of **anon** where
me p- parents stayed until they p- passed away so- so they were there
a long time. I- I- I lived there ‘til I was twenty five. Cos there was
a lot going on in Urmston then. I went- with being stammering I was
very shy and reserved and I thought I’ve got to do summat about this.
So I went and had d- d- d- d- dancing lessons in Urmston. Yeah and I
enjoyed it and I’ve got all my medals for dancing . Yeah and that was
a way of b- bringing me out you know EOS Yeah. Mm. And then course you
were always g- going dancing and m- we had a milk bar in Urmston. Did
you- did you have a milk bar at all **anon**? They only sold
milkshakes. Mm. S- sh- shop’s still there now but they’ve run out of
milk. It’s EOS Yeah. I tell you what I was thinking of last night. I
knew what I wanted to do when I left school and as soon as I was
fourteen I was EOS And I wanted to be a lithographic printer. I was
always interested in printing all- this was nineteen forty four. There
was one year left of the war. But it was ending and there were
soldiers were arriving home then. So they had to have their old jobs
back. You c- I c- could not get a job EOS to be a lithographic
printer. So- I’m talking a lot aren’t I. So there was an advert in the
newspaper. The evening news. ‘Boy wanted to learn lithographic
printing’ Manchester. So I was there for eight o’clock and the job had
gone. Dear me. Anyway so they said ‘but we’ve got a vacancy in the
handwritten department’. Now don’t ask me what that was. So they- I
went along with them upstairs and they showed me. There was about nine
men working there all doing handwritten posters- which they did in
those days. I mean I can r- r- remember Urmston it was just full of
posters on the walls. Most of those were hand done. All- o- others
were lithographic printed so I started there. And erm to cut a long
story short I did that the rest of my life for fifty EOS But when I
worked there got a pound a week. And I’ve written this down because
I’d forget it wouldn’t I EOS I had to go on the bus to Manchester six
days a week. That cost me fifty four d, old p- pence a week. I had to
give me m- mother ninety p oh no d, of the old money. I used to go to
the pictures twice a week for th- th- thirty d. Thirty pence. Thirty
eight old money and I was left with sixty six p- for a week and that
was a pound. And I used to live on it EOS and I think now. I think
that’s now why it’s made me appreciate- the value of money. And erm if
I can jump a bit further I then left there and went to work for
another firm who did, you won’t have heard of these will you- You’ll
have heard of them won’t you? Oh yes, yeah, yeah. Well the **anon**
were the biggest circuit in England of cinemas. And some cinemas used
to change three times a week. Monday Tuesday Wednesday, Thursday
Friday Saturday and a different one on a Sunday- so people went. And
there was about- I think there was sixty of us worked there. And we
used to do abou- I- I forget the amount but it was in hundreds. The
circuit was in hundreds of cinemas. And we used to do them all by hand
every week. One week’s holiday. A forty eight hour week and that’s
where I really learnt me job there you know my trade. They went
bankrupt. And I got oth- other jobs you know and then I always wanted
to have me own business and I started my own business in nineteen
sixty six . I found this old property and I started in business on two
weeks holiday pay that I’d got from the firm. Fifteen- thirty pound it
was for two weeks. Out of that I had to pay sixteen pound to rent the
shop. It was a big gamble wasn’t it. But I was lucky that I got the c-
custom you know. Struggled and erm- but people were good in those days
c- anyway I- I managed to get- make friends with a chappy who worked
for I think it was Esso petroleum. And he- he was responsible for ad-
advertising and he used to bring me the advertising to do you know big
wooden signs. And so I hadn’t erm money to buy the wood even to do
them on. But there was a wonderful sh- shop in **anon** where th- you
know they used to sell wood. And he said to me ‘Edmund **anon** you
take it. When you get paid you pay me’ and I thought that was lovely
that. You know. And I worked on my own for t- twenty five years and
enjoyed it. Erm and I lookayback on life it’s- it’s had its bad times
I’ve EOS First time okay, you can’t have it perfect can you. And then
me wife- I went out with me wife once when I was about eighteen and
the problem was she was a friend of the fam- or their- her parents
were a friend of my parents and whenever she came round I went out you
know. So anyway we went out with each other once. We didn’t like each
other EOS We went off an married somebody else and fifteen years later
I got divorced. D- didn’t know where **anon** was. Hadn’t the
slightest where she was. Until a friend of mine who was an insurance
agent he said ‘I’ve just knocked at a house in Stretford and this
**anon**- **anon** came to the door.’ I said ‘did she?’ He said ‘yeah’
he said erm ‘she’s got divorced and she’s living in **anon** and she’s
a bit of alright yeah Edmund **anon**’ Left channel resumes EOS So
Edmund **anon** wrote to her mother EOS And that’s how that started
all over again. So you can see why I believe your life’s mapped out.
Cos how did I meet her again in **anon** when I was here? Yeah this is
it you know. And that- that was fantastic that. I’ve got a boy off me
first marriage and off the second I’ve got t- two girls EOS One’s okay
One’s very okay, one’s lovely. And the other one sh- she was even odd
with her mother you know. I haven’t heard off her for a year now. I
mean her mum died th- th- th- what three year ago now wouldn’t it be.
Yeah. And erm sh- she’s strange. Course there’s always strange ones
about. P- people say I’m strange. No left channel EOS Oh yeah, yeah.
Who do you work for? I might know them. Yeah. No I don’t remember
them. Yeah of course. Yeah yeah. Mm. They came back did they? Yeah.
Mm, mm, that’s right. That’s the most important thing in life isn’t it
trust. You know. If they trust you. I’ve got a lady who does my house
work and I come out many a day and she lets herself in and I’ve got a
lot of f- faith in and trust in her and it’s nice to have- cos that’s
important part of life is trust. Isn’t it? I you don’t mind if I
chatter? In ninetee- with having me own business- in nineteen seventy
four I was invited to join the Rotary Club **anon**. Have you heard of
Rotary? No. You’ll- you might’ve heard of Rotary. They used to come
round the streets at C- Christmas time with a Christmas float. Yours
in **anon**- and Lymm- Lymm- Lymm R- Rotary Club came round. And it-
it was- it was started in America originally. And it’s for business
men you know who’ve reached the top of the EOS Well I couldn’t go any
higher cos I worked myself. You see. So- I was invited to join you
know. And that was good. And that gave me a lot of confidence- because
they have to stand up and s- give a talk once a year. And I was still
very bad stammering. And erm when it was my t- turn the first time
they said ‘Edmund **anon** you don’t have to do it if you don’t want’.
I said I’m going to make them have it you know. But I did it okay
because they’re all on your side. That’s the best part of it. So I w-
I was in t- twenty one years in Rotary. I was ch- chairman of the
community section which looked after the area you know and I loved- I
like local charity work- and looking after the area where I know. And
whenever it was my turn to speak th- the president would announce it
the week before that next weeks speaker is Edmund Jacobs **anon**- and
we’re extending the lunch half an hour EOS But all that helped you.
And do you know what I ended up there doing? I was speaker’s EOS And
yeah. Now that was a good p- part of my life. An- and the wife was in-
i- in the ladies section. I was invited every year to be president but
because you had to visit other clubs I’ve turned it down. But my wife
acc- c- cepted the ladies side of it. so I used to go out for free
meals with her then. So tha- that was it. Yeah but in those days
Rotary was nearly consisted of- doctors, surgeons, solicitors. All
local people. All the shops in Urmston were owned b- by the actual
owner. They were privately owned. And they were all members of the
Rotary Club. But there’s none left EOS You’ve got the dentist. You’ve
got them all sorts of- all walks of life as a member. And erm but it’s
gone now. You can’t walk into any shop without its being a big c-
concern. I mean there’s not a- a lot of these shops like **anon** left
EOS where you can s- s- see the owner. They’ve gone. That’s the
personal touch that’s gone. Because I was- a lady I rented me shop off
she said to me cos her’s was a- next door she says ‘let me give you a
bit of advice. Get a good EOS and never lose the personal touch’. And
you’re always there to- Well it is yeah. It’s sad that isn’t it you
know. And like I said earlier on the buses were always on time. I mean
I had to be at work for eight o’clock . Excuse me. And if I missed the
twenty five past seven there was one at half past. And if I missed the
half past there was one at twenty five to. And the twenty five to just
got me there. You know. But there wasn’t as m- many p- people on the
roads then- so the b- buses weren’t held up. Erm have you got anything
else for a- a minute? What do the local people like? Well I’ve noticed
that now. Now I’m you know on- on my own. Everybody knows me. I know
them. And erm- and a- a lady opposite with her husband you know. And
when I go out at all in the evening which is not- I don’t like to go
out now. It’s not safe for- older people to go out and that’s one of
the sad things of life which I’ll go back to in a minute that. It’s
reminded me of something. Erm I’ve got to let this lady know I’m going
out and w- when I’ll be back. Which is good. It’s to keep an eye on me
cos she knows if- if I don’t get up in the morning something’s
happened don’t they. You know what they used to like Fearne **anon**?
Christmas time. Go into Manchester looking at **anon** arcade. When it
was Christmas it- **anon** had long windows down the side of an EOS
The other side of the arcade was **anon** and erm every window was
decorated at Christmas with animation and animals and moving and there
was a real spirit of Christmas. And people used to go down especially
just to look in the windows when it was closed. Now I came to Urmston
on Sunday and I drove th- th- through Urmston- excuse me and nearly
every window was shuttered. Metal shutters. Well in my youth you could
walk and look in all the EOS Enjoy yourself. Nowhere was open EOS but
today it’s all ‘keep out’ shutters- you know. We don’t want you and
all like that and- And I saw s- something the other day that disgusted
me really. House for sale sign and they’ve got to s- s- set them
alight these days. Well what do they get out of it? W- w- what do you
get out of damaging anything? Oh yeah, yeah. The person yeah. Yeah.
You can’t- I can’t understand- Did you want to ask us any questions?
Are w- are w- are we running out of time? Can I just say? Erm my wife
and I we- a lot of people don’t like EOS I had one and I used to hold
people up on the road. You know. we did about th- th- thirty years you
know. But when I- I- I retired my s- we’ll go up into a motorhome
which was as fast as a car could go. And I’ve been all over England,
Scotland and Wales and our hobby when I r- retired was adopting the
old guide dogs. Oh I loved doing that and I’ve got five dogs’ ashes in
the back EOS And I’m an emotional person and the first dog we adopted
w- was- the owner was blind and deaf. Yeah blind and deaf. So he had
to be with a g- guide dog but he couldn’t hear as well. So that was
difficult. So the pers- so w- got her you know y- y- you’re
interviewed at home to see if you’re suitable. And w- when you get the
dog they come back in a fortnight to make sure that you’re- the dogs
are settled. And we- oh we went to this dog called Honey. And the day
before we got a phone call from the guide dogs. He says ‘I hope you
don’t mind he wants to meet you’. I said ‘no I don’t mind’ you know.
And erm- so we went down and we met him. M- m- my wife sat beside him
and questions were asked and if it meant just a yes or a- a no answer-
my wife had to either t- t- t- tap his hand for yes. I forget which
way round or- rub it for no you know. And anyway the- he had a- like
a- a machine tha- a braille machine. And the guide dog people used to
t- t- type the message in and he picked it up. So that- but he must’ve
gone deaf later in life cos he could still EOS So he could talk to us,
anyhow, after half an hour he’d- he’d handed over the- the- the lead
to my wife. He’d handed over the dog’s tablets. He had his other dog
there- but he was handing over his eyes and his ears. And after half
an hour they said to me ‘Mr Jacobs **anon** will you t- t- take the
dog’s lead and go’. Well I got outside there and I thought I’ve taken
his eyes and ears away and I cried my eyes out. and they had to take
me for a cup of tea you know. It’s- it’s a traumatic situation- Oh no
no. Oh yeah. Yeah. Mm somebody owned it yeah. Yeah oh I know. Yeah mm.
Yeah of course he’s not hurting anyone. Well, when- when we had
ordinary dogs you know pet dogs before we started to adopt- Oh that’s
right. We got to the end of the- I- with the guide dogs. I was saying
I don’t think I can have another because of walking them. So the vet
came out with the dogs. He says ‘this dogs are l- these dogs are
lovely to walk’. T- twenty minutes a day and they spent the rest of
the time by the fire. And that was a greyhound. So erm anyway I- I
never got round to it because me doggy died and then me wife died. And
on your own you can’t look after a dog. But just going back to life.
Fearne **anon** and myself go to church. Now whether that’s made us
any better people I don’t know. I enjoyed ch- church. Really enjoyed
it. Been all me life cos I was first introduced when I was five. With
going to a church school. And then a church school. And then I was in
the best youth club of all which was a church and then I moved away
from the church w- when I got married first time. Never went back. And
I’ve been a very active member involved in doing everything. And
enjoyed it. Now I won’t mention any names or where I’m going but this
vicar doesn’t get the best out of me. Yeah, and it’s sad that. And he
knows it. He’s a nice chap. Great with my wife when she was EOS I
mean, he said to us m- me daughter ‘any time night or day you want me
call me’. Well me wife died at home. Five o clock in the mor- morning.
I was lucky that night that I had erm a nurse f- from **anon** who was
EOS Cos I wouldn’t have known what to do on me own properly. So I rang
me daughter up. She came and she said ‘I’m going to ring EOS And he
was w- with us within half an hour. So he- he- he was good on that
side. When you really needed him he was there and I think being a
church m- member has helped me a lot in life. I- I’m very honest. I’m
very sincere. I talk a lot. I’ve got hundreds of stories that I can’t-
But is it- an- nearly up yet?