one, two, three, is that working? ah, that’s alright, ah, that’s
alright, here, you were talking about these cubes before, I’m not
going off that for the time being, I’m gonna just talk about these cos
**anon** has put the numbers on those there, so he’s done tho- you see
that one, this was a puzzle we got it EOS yeah, it is, that’s- that’s
right on there EOS so that was that one, so I think he’s done that- it
took him three days to do that but he’s erm, he just persevered and
persevered and that was it, and he’s done them all, so that was erm,
that’s pretty good, and the other thing is, erm, what was I gonna say,
I’ve got your- those ‘Kiss’ magazines for you, about time too and all
EOS and there’s a DVD that I bought from- oh it was- well, we watched
it last night, I put it on, erm, it was a concert that was recorded
for- in the MGM grand EOS that should’ve been on the internet, it
should’ve been streamed on EOS and the servers crashed apparently so
they didn’t watch it, and erm, but the concert went ahead, but there’s
on- the must’ve only been about four hundred people there EOS and it
was- but it was just invited guests, but anyway, it’s just a EOS aye,
it’s alright but it’s- but again, it’s- it’s only like four songs, so
I mean it’s- I know, but it was only like erm, a promotion thing for
the- for- I dunno if it was opening a hotel or- it w- it was only two
ninety-nine the- the DVD, so we watched that anyway, so we did that,
so I’ve put that in the packet for you as EOS so I’ve got that, so I
can trade you for your Classic Rock magazine EOS so you’ll be alright
with that so have you been at Dad’s today? what’ve you been doing? has
he repaired the ceiling? what did he- what did he need? Just to get
some plaster on it or has he sort of done it Problem with right
channel EOS oh has he been up on the- has- oh has he been on the roof
and done Right channel resumes EOS he wants to come to our house and
d- I saw him in the pub you know EOS he was in- in- in fact, he came
to the **anon** last- last Thursday EOS yeah, and I said erm, ‘so are
you coming to our house’ is it- oh he said, ‘I’ve- I’ve- I been to
your Dad’s to do his- to do his roof’ and I says, ‘well, you want to
come to our house and do ours’ and he went ‘oh, I’ve been really busy’
I thought, ‘you lazy bastard, you’ve done EOS I thought, ‘he hasn’t
done it’ so erm, so that was erm- so that- so is Dad- did Dad say
anything about working with me tomorrow? oh right, I- right, that’s
tomorrow EOS did he say Friday, he might come down on Friday EOS cause
he was saying about- when he was saying about getting a- a new bed he
was saying about moving his old bed into there and I said, ‘you don’t
want’- and getting himself a four foot bed or something, and I said,
‘you don’t want to do that, you just want- you just wanna, erm, use a
bed that you’ve, you know, use his old bed for him and buy a new bed
for that EOS for that room, so I’m sure he’ll do that eventually
anyway EOS so he should be alright with that one so have you been- are
you working the rest of this week or are you off for- for the- the- at
all EOS right, are you working d- days Saturday or evenings? right cos
I was gonna- I- I think at some point I’ll have to try and get down t-
town cos I wanna go to that **anon** and what’s the EOS yeah, but but
are you working during the day? just depends what time I get away cos
I- I won’t finish ‘til half one EOS so I’ll have to erm, we’ll have to
have a- have to have a think- about- about going over there cos with
**anon** and **anon** away, we’ve got like a free weekend, although,
**anon** going to see erm, Les Miserables or something is it, at erm,
The Lowry EOS she’s going there with erm, **anon** and **anon**
they’re having like a girly night- a girly night out so erm, hopefully
might- might get away on Saturday so that looks alright EOS so we’ll
go at erm, we’ll just have a- a quick these. Can you r- remember,
yeah, where did you go to school? It says on here come on with you,
come on, I know exactly where you went EOS yeah, secondary school EOS
and where was and what sorry? no they weren’t- weren’t the best days
of your life at- no, it was alright, I think I’d er- it says here, did
you ever get into trouble EOS yeah, I didn’t feel any pressure at- no
I didn’t at all I just- I just didn’t wanna go to **anon** EOS which
was- which was erm, I didn’t wanna go there so but I- I don’t recall
e- e- when we went to **anon** EOS I did, I did go to school but I
mean, I- I missed the odd day and I think but, I- I just erm, I d- I
didn’t feel- feel pressure with **anon** I suppose because she went-
she went to the girls grammar and- and I think she’d- but I- I always
felt as though I was following in your footsteps at school because all
the teachers sorta knew you, so every time I mentioned my name, they
goes, ‘oh you the brother of- of- are you **anon** brother?’ and then
y- you know, but you were quite good at school, so I mean, it- yeah,
whereas I didn’t- I didn’t sort of like, I didn’t do any homework, as
such, and I didn’t erm EOS I didn’t sort of erm, I mean- I mean I went
to lessons but I mean I- I didn’t work- work as hard as probably I
could’ve, I didn’t sort of, use my full potential, so to speak EOS
yeah, I don’t , but, yeah EOS see that’s it, I didn’t erm, I didn’t
like the staying in, studying bit, I’d rather be out playing foot- you
know, playing football or messing about with- with people so that’s
erm- that was my EOS oh I couldn’t read, I could- well, I could read
but I didn’t bother EOS didn’t bother with that one, I liked doing
Maths but I mean that was EOS that was- that wasn’t too bad, so erm, I
was gonna ask you another question then I can’t remember what it was,
cos erm, what was it about, wasn’t about school, it was about
something else EOS I was gonna do- oh yeah, how was Leeds, when you
went to Leeds? cause you just- with **anon** EOS sh- oh I see EOS
where do you go- where do you go for your lunch? is that just a ch-
is- was that a chain a bars or is that a restaurant or something or
EOS or is it like one of those EOS one of th- oh right, so is that one
of those where you can get eight- you know, two meals for two qu-
eight quid or ten quid or something? oh, bloody hell EOS did you get
the train up there or coach? yeah, how much is that now? that’s
alright, it’s like a bus service that isn’t it, didn’t- is- is it
every hour or every half hour or something? I remember that one EOS so
do you prefer- what’s erm- do you prefer Manchester or Leeds as a
city? cos it’s- well you’ve been a few times now haven’t you? I quite
like erm, getting the- go on EOS I think yeah, I like going into- I
mean I’ve never been into Leeds but I mean I like getting the train,
you know, when we’ve got the train into Manchester from- from Urmston
and you know, just had a- like a Saturday night in there, I mean it’s
not a late night for- for us, cos I mean the last train back- train
that’s back is what, quarter past eleven or something so I mean,
you’re not out all night but, you know, like you say about going into
the bars, there’s a lot of bars up at Deansgate, and just have a- a
few beers or a little restaurants in there and, I mean it’s quite a
good night out and it’s, I mean like you say, I mean there’s so many
people in there compared to EOS you know, Urmston I suppose on a- on a
Saturday and, I was gonna say as well, that I don’t- I feel more
threatened in Urmston going for a drink then I do- then I do in the
centre of Manchester EOS no I don’t, no, but I’m just saying the
amount of people that are in there, you know all having a- having a
few beers and, well it’s like at three in the morning I don’t know,
cos I never stay out that late EOS yeah yeah it used to, when I was-
yeah, that’s it, half two in the morning when- what was that- what was
that- I just can’t think of that bar EOS **anon**- there was **anon**
I don’t know if that’s still there, do you EOS **anon**- **anon**,
remember **anon** remember when we used to go in there so that was
erm, so that was erm, that was good, cos I was saying to you, it’s- do
you think that Ma- Manchester compared to **anon** where you used to
live, now that’s two different cities, cos **anon** more of a cultural
city than Manchester isn’t it EOS just where- wit- whe- if- if you had
the choice now of living in- living in **anon** where you used to live
or in Manchester, or- or EOS you know, where you live now EOS you
haven’t got Lostock have you EOS and there is a lotta tourists in- in
**anon** though, isn’t there EOS yeah, I suppose the thing with
**anon** is, I mean, because, I suppose, like holidays up there we
used to go to **anon** and stay on a farm and- and, you know, our
childhood was, I suppose our summer holidays, our childhood was- was
up there and I have very good memories of- of being at **anon** as
opposed to, you know, going into **anon** I mean I- I enjoyed it as a-
as a city, but I think EOS I suppose if- if- if I had the choice- if-
if I’d have got employment up there, it would’ve been a place that-
that I would’ve liked to have EOS but I always- I always actually g-
going back, when you lived there, I always thought that I knew
**anon** better than I knew Manchester, because I never re- I never
really went into Manchester in- I suppose in me early twenties I- I
didn’t go- we didn’t go night- clubbing or into the bars in
Manchester, and I didn’t work in Manchester so, I mean, it wasn’t a
place that I actually went a lot, whereas **anon**, because you know,
we used to go down I suppose with **anon** and **anon**, **anon**, and
then you lived down there and, we’d played, you know, like we played
golf that time in **anon** and we’d been to the theatre in **anon**
and we- we been erm, y- you know, t- to various places, I just thought
that I knew **anon** better than I knew Manchester, but I would- I
would’ve lived there, I don’t know what erm, whether I would’ve
enjoyed it, I suppose it’s difficult, I don’t know whether I’d’ve
enjoyed it as much as I’ve- I enjoyed the time I spent here, it’s
diff- very difficult, to- to say, but I mean I would’ve EOS I would’ve
been happy staying there and I did- I did enjoy the times that, that I
went down when you were living there, you know, I mean we EOS yeah, I
was- I was saying the other day actually, do you remem- do you
remember cos you were saying about camping I was- I was saying about
erm, do you remember when- when we- when, erm, **anon** had that
caravan on the front lawn EOS and we s- and we stayed in it that
thunderstorm, and he let those fireworks off outside EOS do you
remember that, oh that was- I mean, I don’t know how old we must’ve
been then, must’ve been about bloody nine or ten or something I think,
and they had those- those bloody aeroplane fireworks, do you have a-
do y- do y- do you remember those firew- the- the aeroplane ones that-
that- that you turned- set them off and th- and they just used to go
‘whoosh’ into the air, and they’d go anywhere EOS he was setting them
off outside our caravan and we were crapping it do you not- cos- cos
we didn’t know what it was cos we were so young, and erm, w- and
what’s erm- what’s that ch- I think they- what was- **anon** as well,
wasn’t there, when we used to go out with EOS it’s got a lot of things
going on EOS yeah, yeah, we had a good time in- me and **anon** went
erm, went to Leeds- well we went to that **anon**, **anon** or
whatever you call it EOS it’s- it’s up near, I dunno, it’s just on the
outskirts of Leeds, but it’s- I think it’s erm, Leeds’ only five star
hotel EOS and we went and it was- cos it was our wedding anniversary,
which you forgot by the way, never mind EOS yeah, never mind EOS next
year, next year EOS there’s erm- oh I’ll tell you another thing, I
don’t know if you remembered, it was **anon** birthday today EOS oh is
it tomorrow? oh good, me card’ll get there on time, cos I sent a card,
did you send one, don’t think you did EOS oh did she EOS I’ll change
the calendar cos I had it for today, but that’s only cos Dad told me,
he says ‘I’ve sent a card’ s- he said- he said, ‘I’ve sent a card to
**anon**’ EOS no but he said that, no but he said- he says, ‘I’ve sent
a card to **anon** from everybody in Manchester’ I thought, ‘thanks
for telling me, A, you’ve sent a card, and B you’ve-’ I mean EOS yeah
but he could’ve said there was- that- that it was his birthday EOS
what, ‘from everybody in Manchester’ I thought he should’ve just told
me, I’d’ve sent me own card, I don’t wanna be part of ‘everybody in
Manchester’, anyway, I was saying about erm, the hotel we stayed EOS
this five star hotel, I mean we’d booked in, erm, for like a massage
and- and us- use of the pool and everything, and erm, but I think it
was about sixty quid for each, for the- for like- for one night, but
you got erm, like I say, you got a spa treatment, you got a massage in
there, we got dinner, which was thirty quid a head anyway so EOS which
was in there but erm, they t- they t- w- we had a look on it, the
cheapest bottle of wine on their menu, was thirty five quid EOS and
they had champ- they had champagne on the menu, three grand EOS yeah
we- well EOS no, well we actually- well we wanted a bottle of wine so
we- so we thought well, the cheapest EOS is thirty five quid, erm, so-
so we had to have something, so I thought we’ll have that one, but
erm, we actually took a bottle of champagne with us, so we drunk that
in the room before we- before we erm, before we went, so, well, before
we went down for dinner so that was- that was quite good, so we had a
good evening there, but erm, and then on the way back, I don’t know if
you, we went that’s- we went to Todmorden market, Todmorden and erm,
Howarth, Howarth is, erm, where Emily EOS erm, oh and the Bronte
sisters EOS it was alright, it’s a bit tacky but, erm, there’s-
there’s like a main, I suppose, their main street which is just like
up a hill, it’s- it’s a bit erm, like a cobbled street, going up a EOS
it’s diffi- it’s difficult to describe what it’s like, like one of
these Devon holiday villages, you know, where the- the houses on both
sides but like EOS t- tacky shops I- I would call it selling- selling
EOS yeah, mugs, you know like w- How- Howarth mug and- and then these-
and erm, like, bric-a-brac and this, ooh, int- in fact there was one
good shop, I m- you’d’ve loved it, it was like, erm, s- selling
memorabilia and stuff like, you know EOS but they had- they had erm,
like some old, like old games, and they had like, Thunderbirds
annuals, and they had Doctor Who annuals and there was, erm, they’ve
got some, erm, like si- oh they had loads of like vinyl, and I had to
I was going through the y- you know, c- no but- nah, well it’s- too
tight you see stuff in there but I mean yeah but, I had a look, but it
was all books, and it- but it- I mean it was- it was a n- that- that
was about the only sorta shop I liked in- all the other ones are, you
know, lots- lotsa cafes trying to EOS sorta like out do each other
with- f- for what they’re selling for lunch and for their dinners and
teas and coffees and- and whatever else, but erm, I could- it was- we
didn’t stay too long there, coup- couple of hours is long enough but
we just had a- a wander up the high street and- and there’s like erm,
I suppose a not a woollen museum, but you know these places that sell
tweed jackets and local brew and things like that, so we- we nipped in
there and and just had a look around and got summet from- went the
tourist information centre, got a map, went round the churchyard where
the Bronte sisters were- were buried and EOS sort, cultural- yeah EOS
yeah, that’s- that’s about my limit, in fact we walked into the park
and the- and there’s a map of the park that goes, ‘you are here’, and
we looked at the map and we went, ‘I can’t be’ EOS ‘walking down here,
shall we go’ EOS yeah, so we, so we sort of, we sort of left there,
and then we went to Todmorden but they had erm, they had that like a
some stalls on there selling EOS all lo- well not local stuff, but
like olives and- and sun dried tomatoes and bloody, pickled garlic,
and all that sort of salady stuff and then there was a- another store
selling, bloody home made pies and, a bit- bit better than Urmston
market, you know, if you’ve wanna buy a plug at Urmston EOS that’s
about- that’s about- bout your limit really isn’t it EOS yeah, yeah,
buy- buy summet from Marks and Spencers, yeah you’ll be alright, so
erm- my friends at school, at school, I suppose- I suppose **anon**
shouldn’t hear this but- yeah, I was gonna say, I me- I- it- I suppose
I suppose I’d’ve been seventeen, eighteen may- maybe a bit younger
than that- than that and there was **anon** EOS and there was **anon**
as- as it was and erm, I don’t know his- whether he still lives up
there, there’s **anon** do you remember **anon** EOS you wouldn’t
know- no, **anon**, there was John Ward **anon** EOS right- it- I
don’t- I’ll tell you- I’ll tell you a- it- I’ll tell you a story about
**anon**, he’s do you kn- do you remember somebody called **anon** EOS
cause he- apparently he’s not very- he’s in- he was in hospital not
long back with some alcoholic problems EOS which is a bit of a shame
cos he was nice **anon**, but, I think erm, I- I don’t know he- I
think he sort of ended up living on his own, whether he’s in a flat or
something I don’t know whether he ever got married or was divorced or
something but I- he’s- he ended up coming in **anon** a lot EOS so
erm, but anyway I heard from, well, it was **anon** brother, **anon**
that- that send us- send us a text saying that **anon** was in
hospital EOS it’s a shame really cos I mean he can only be what- how
old will he be, forty-nine, fifty EOS you know, I mean it’s- it’s no
age at all, although I know quite a few- well I know three or four
people that have died through EOS problems, but yeah my childhood was,
I mean I suppose that that was EOS like you say, **anon** EOS and erm,
with **anon** and, erm, there was **anon**- **anon**- **anon**,
**anon**, erm, who was the lad who used to live opposite? I can’t
remember- I can’t remember who he is now, I’ll come to him in a minute
EOS that was- that was one, **anon**, and we just used to, I suppose
there’s nothing really to do EOS erm, we went to the, erm, **anon**
youth club a few times erm, but again you see, the trouble with that-
that- that, again, there’s- there’s- there’s quite a few rough EOS
people for in- went in there from like I suppose it not the coun- oh I
mean, you know, if you say ‘council estate’ it sounds EOS but I mean
it’s- it’s- it- it- you know, there’s people like that, so I mean it
wasn’t actually it was alright but I mean if any of them went you sort
of felt a bit intimidated by it- by various things but, and then at-
at school I mean, I suppose, some of me friends- I didn’t really have
that many- I didn’t really have many- lots of friends, I mean there
was **anon**, but again he- he used to live near us, **anon**, who
used to live near us, yeah, but I suppose some of that was, erm- yeah
but I mean, I used to play football for- when I first started at- so
that’s a team of people isn’t it EOS so yeah, you got- you got eleven
to start with EOS and I- I- I suppose erm, I suppose maybe I did,
maybe I did go out a bit more in the evening, but I mean it wasn’t- I
suppose it was more hanging round the street, then- then- then doing
anything you know, it wasn’t, like o- you know, other than Saturdays
playing football ‘til I packed that in EOS cause I used to smoke in
the bike sheds and that was- that was the other social calendar,
wasn’t it, yeah EOS who’d you meet round- round the bushes, having a
fag EOS yeah so erm, so that was my social- social events EOS
**anon**, where did he live? Can you remember where he lived? cos you
played a couple of- I mean didn’t you play the civic centre with your
band and hats? where was that? Did you play there? I don’t remember
that, I remember the- go on why, why do you remember that? what,
cheering you on? yeah but I used to, you see, that- you see that-
that- you see that was it you see, I was- I was very proud, and I’ve
said this to you before, I was very proud of you being in a band, and-
and the fact that y- y- you know, you play- ah, I mean that’s- that’s-
I suppose that’s brothers for you isn’t it, one’s good at one thing,
one’s good at the other, but I mean I suppose, deep down I- I don’t
know, I just used to like going to watch you play and I-, you know,
telling people say, ‘oh, me, you know, you know, me brother’s in a
band, come and watch’ cos I mean, I remem- remember seeing you, like I
say, at the **anon**, and- and **anon** and even when you were in your
band in **anon** tha- that was erm I have still got your CD up there,
aye, we’ll show **anon** the pictures after EOS so we’ll erm, so I
remember that, so who else- I- who was- was it **anon** that was in
your band EOS don’t remember that one EOS who was the guy who pl- who
was the lead guitar at the front? can you remember his name, that m-
was that **anon**? I can’t remember EOS whatever happened to your
drums? What happened to your- what happened to your dr- what happened
to your drum skin? I bet, yeah, yeah EOS and I, like I say, I mean I
didn’t have- I didn’t have loadsa friends but they were- they were
just sort of EOS I think- I think in later days I think **anon** I
mean I spent a lot of time with- with **anon** if you remember, and
then he moved up to bloody Hebden Br- not Heb- somewhere up there,
Hebden Bridge or something he met- he met **anon** who was about
twenty years older than EOS with a- with two kids, which erm, when
you’re twenty I suppose that was appealing for him EOS you know, which
is- but erm, he erm, I dunno, we lost touch then, and I’ve- I’ve not-
I’ve seen his brother a few times, he lives in- no, his younger
brother, erm, **anon** EOS well **anon** was your age EOS **anon** was
the year younger than me, and then there was **anon** who was a
different- who had a different Fa- in fact I think they were all
different Father’s, I don’t know, but, he had a- he had drugs prob-
he’s another one that had drugs problems so erm, that was- that was
that I suppose, erm, did you have a favourite teacher at school? Going
on about school no EOS who was that? oh, I don’t remember him EOS so
it w- eh, go on EOS I was gonna say, cos quite a few of the teachers
at school were quite, I think, Victorian, cos they were older weren’t
they, it was- yeah, and he- yeah, and then- and then there was-
someone probably it- yeah EOS he was quite- I mean this is it- cos I
mean, when **anon** says about her school and they used to call them
by, you know like, **anon** or **anon** or **anon** something, I mean
ours was just, surname- it was just your surname they used to EOS but
they- they- they- I don’t know, they- it was very, I think disciplined
was- was the word, I mean it was a boys’ grammar school, I suppose, it
wasn’t mixed or anything but it was- it was just very Victorian in
its- in its outlook at school and, you know- no, it wasn’t, no EOS
well that’s it I mean- oh yeah, I mean the- I think- I think like you
say, I think the schools tend to be a bit more- I think they treat you
more as people than they- than they ever did when- when- when we were
at grammar EOS you know, I mean, like you say, you were saying about
your favourite teacher, I think my favourite teacher was a PE teacher,
cos I didn’t, you know, it was like PE EOS wa- wa- wasn’t sort of like
ball and ch- it’s not- wasn’t work, if you know what I mean, it was
EOS there was only- there was only- they had a he gave me EOS I
remember he gave me some lines once EOS I remember he give me some
lines once, and I did them, I did them with that self-carbonating
paper, do you remember, Mum had some self- carbonating paper that you
just- well you just wrote on it and it would carbonate on- onto the
next EOS oh he did yeah, cos he caught me and it wasn’t- wasn’t-
wasn’t hard t- to notice that one but erm, we did that and then, erm,
I can’t remember what I had to write now, but I remember- I remember
him but I just- I just quite enjoyed, like, PE, cos I suppose that was
the football bit, and I just couldn’t cover the- cover the proper
subjects couldn’t do- couldn’t do them at all so when are we- just erm
EOS I’ll have to come round to yours again with me- with me guitar and
me amp, like we said, we’ll try and do a bit a- are you working- what
you working next week, I know what you’re saying about EOS no, I’ll
just- give us erm- if you give us a shout about that we’ll- we’ll try
and have a- we’ll try and have a- have a look at that, have you been
busy at work or not too bad EOS oh, you’ve not been in have you EOS
right, when d- when d- they expect that to be- is that when you’re
moving? oh right a- yeah, are they closing the other one completely?
yeah, we go away on the erm, oh, is it ninth of September EOS we’re
going to erm, Portugal and don’t ask me the- the somebody asked me-
somebody today asked me the- asked me the name of the resort, and it’s
summet like, ‘Cos’ or summet- summet like that, I can’t remember EOS
just me and **anon** yeah, cos **anon** and **anon** have- well,
**anon** been to Corfu with- with **anon** and EOS **anon** Dad, and
then **anon** been away with **anon** and then they’re b- going to V
EOS so, I mean there’s just no- I mean th- we- we couldn’t’ve had a
summer holiday this year with them anyway because of all the different
things that were going on, so we just didn’t have time to do it that
way so I mean, me and **anon** said ‘well, we’ll try and book a week
when- when they’re back at- at Uni or- or back at school’ EOS well we
haven’t, that’s one of the reasons why I picked Portugal, or- because
there’s that and- and Greece, I wouldn’t of minded going to Greece cos
I mean **anon** and **anon** have been EOS and you’ve been and that
was another one, we said that or Portugal EOS so, it was just a- a
matter of, ‘well, where do you wanna go’ so we- we sort of just went
on the internet, and erm, look- looked up some apartments, found an
apartment and then **anon**- we booked some flights, it’s not too
hard, it’s about- think it’s about six hundred- it’s about six hundred
quid EOS think so yeah but- yeah, but I think it’s cos you go out of
school holidays EOS then it’s- you know, it- it- it works out that
little bit cheaper but we’re not gonna- w- we thought about hiring a
car, for n- you know, to drive up, but I- I don’t know, cos **anon**
had a look and even that’s summet like two and half hundred quid or
three hundred quid for the- for the week, and you think, ‘well’ EOS
you know, if you got a transfer for- for seventy quid that gives you
two hundred and fifty quid t- to maybe get some taxis or something and
EOS and the fact that we’re only going for a week, well I mean you’d-
you’d spend the first three or four days looking round the- oh, the-
we- well yeah because I mean they’re always have trip to the EOS you
know, erm, I d- I dunno, they either go to an aqua park or they go to
EOS you know, some- s- some building or- or like you say, the next-
the next town- town along the- the beach EOS so there’s always that so
we- we- we decided that we’ll probably just get a transfer to the- to
the resort and then just see how it goes, but, **anon** and **anon**,
you know **anon** and **anon** who stayed in EOS they we- they-
they’ve been to this resort, well, about six years on the trot or
something, so EOS so we’ve sort of like took a recommendation EOS
yeah, so we’re gonna do- we’re gonna do that but- but this is our-
this’ll be our- our first holiday without either **anon** or **anon**
EOS just me and **anon**, so that should be- that should be- that
should be interesting shouldn’t it? we’ll get- we’ll get bored after
three days EOS be like that, oh yeah, bought some books, we went to
charity shop and bought some books, when we were- when we were away at
this- this weekend, oh I tell you what else we- we- we bought, have
you ever done that- that race night? those- you did- you did- well
it’s- it was funny because it was **anon** that, erm, that mentioned
it, and we went to this charity shop while we were out and they’d got
a brand new EOS box of- of this race night for two pound ninety nine,
so I thought, oh for that, I th- well it’s- it’s where you’ve got erm,
they have erm, like a DVD of EOS th- they have like ten or twelve or,
I dunno, how many horse races on EOS and they give you a- all the- all
the little slips, and y- you bet on who you think’s gonna win EOS so
they’ve- they’ve got like at the first race might be, I dunno, the,
you know, the Dean Morris handicap or something and it’ll have all the
horses on it, and it’ll say favourites this two, or whatever, and then
you just- you just bet on it, and if yours wins or comes second or
something, y- you win the money EOS oh yeah, that, yeah, yeah, they-
they put like erm, I mean s- some places have used it for- for like
fundraising EOS haven’t they, you know, like, we’ve been to one at the
scouts EOS where they- where they do it and- and you know, you bet
real money on it, put a quid on- on a race, and they use it for
fundraising, there’s quite a few people do it for that, but it’s just
something interesting, I mean you can have a- a few people over, few
beers and some snacks, and, I mean that’s what- that’s what you did
wasn’t it? and erm, you know, have a few snacks and just- just have a-
have an evening of it, but erm, who- who won the most money when you
did it? three hundred, yeah, can you imagine that in your own money
EOS but you’ve got a thousand p- I- I- we- we opened the box and we
got like a thousand pound note or something, but erm, I- I just think
it’d be quite erm, quite fun to do that EOS we had erm, I remember
years ago we had erm, I had a little games night here for different-
just for diff- I- I mean, this is for adults and we had like erm,
wiggly worms EOS have you seen- as- as one of the games we did, and
there was- there was a few like, really daft silly games but I mean
EOS we- we sorta split people into teams EOS or we did girls and boys,
I can’t remember now but, erm, and we had the- all these like little
daft- daft g- I mean it was actually quite good fun because I mean, me
Dad loves like playing daft games as well EOS same as you like going
to- oh, I love connect four EOS yeah, well I’m gonna- yeah, you have
to just- got one in there, that and tetris, I like tetris, cos that’s
a similar sorta game isn’t it EOS for- you have that on erm R game boy
EOS game boy that was it, yeah, I remember now that’s right, I’ve got
one of them upstairs, got **anon** gameboy colour or something EOS
yeah, haven’t got tetris on it, but erm, what was the other game you
were saying about erm- yeah, oh, but they’re all on like you’re arcade
games aren’t they, have you- have you bou- have you got your Xbox
sorted out yet? or did you buy a game for that? do you play it? do you
play it? is that a new one then is it? no, it’s ridiculous that isn’t
it, have you been in Game in Manchester then? Ask for a second hand
one EOS oh right, oh we’d- we got erm, you got- you got erm, that erm,
guitar for that erm, guitar hero from there didn’t you, did you get-
yeah, a few years back EOS and erm, and a game I think it was, a
second hand one EOS that’s- that’s right yeah, yeah EOS that was it
EOS yeah, s- saying about erm, I forgot what I was gonna say then, I
was gonna say something about erm, about another game we played on our
games night, and I can’t- I can’t remember what it was, there was
wiggly worms and there was another one it’s- hungry hi- oh that’s-
that’s a good game as well, hungry hippos, but I’ve got- I’ve got ups-
I’ve got erm, Kerplunk EOS erm, you were saying about connect four, I
haven’t got that upstairs but erm, I can’t remember what we were
playing the other day, it wasn’t Ke- oh I tell you what, that’s one-
another thing that reminded me, Cluedo, it- there was a question in
the quiz, in the pub, he says, ‘where was- where was Cluedo set?’ have
you any idea where Cluedo was EOS and I t- I- oh it’s- oh it’s set in,
yeah, it’s set in this like stately home or something, but I text
**anon** EOS ‘can y- can y- can you tell me where, erm, where Cluedo
was set’ cos it’s under the- we’ve got it under the cabinet in the- in
the hall and he- and he looked through and he put EOS ‘it’s- it’s a,
erm, Tudor manor’ or something, I went, ‘no, look, it’s like, set in a
Tudor manor’ EOS ‘it’s not the name of it’ yeah, it doesn’t say- I
don’t know how they- how anybody knows it, cos it doesn’t say anywhere
on the box EOS or in the instructions, where it’s set, and it’s
Arlington Hall EOS so just remember that for your quiz, summet- well
it might- it might do yeah, Wikipedia EOS be on- be on there won’t it
EOS I- but this- this is what I thought, I thought I wonder if
somebody has just made- just made that up, because it doesn’t say on
the box EOS or whether it says on the- on the later ones I mean I- I
don’t erm, I don’t- I don’t know so erm, I was gonna say as well yeah,
about erm, different games you can get a ‘Kiss’ monopoly, have you
seen that? yeah, I saw it- I saw it on erm EOS might’ve been on kiss
online or something EOS no I just thought cos it was probably about
two hundred dollars or EOS no, have you? I bet you have EOS I bet you
have EOS and what was it called? oh, I don’t know EOS do they have
full- do- do they have full episodes on youtube, or is it just mainly-
I’ve never really been on youtube that much EOS it’s f- it’s funny you
saying about erm, not being as funny as it used to, we’ve erm, we got
‘Life of Brian’ you know Monty Python EOS I don’t know if you’ve ever
seen it EOS but we- we- I think- I think I hype stuff up too much EOS
cause I’m going, ‘ah, it’s great, it’s great, gotta watch this,
**anon** it’s dead funny’ and but when you put it on, then **anon**
and **anon** are sat there like that EOS oh that Spamalot, yeah that
was EOS well, that was- that was a mixed bag of- of like erm, I don’t
know if you’ve seen any Monty Python, but Monty Python- there was
Monty Python and the Holy Grail, Life of Brian, and EOS Monty Python
live at Drury Lane, I think they’re- they’re- they’re like the main
ones, and they’re- and it was written by Eric Idle, I think Eric Idle
wrote Spamalot, he was one of Monty Python, so he’s put a lot the,
sort of ‘in-jokes’ in this EOS and it’s- and it’s- it’s run a bit more
like the Holy Grail EOS sort of storyline EOS of it but- but so I th-
you’ve- you’ve- you’ve got to know quite a few of the in j- you’ve-
you- you’ve- you’ve got to have watched the DV- the- the film I think,
to really enjoy it, although there’s- there’s certain things in it
that we thought **anon**, you know, he’d like that, and then when
**anon**- you know, would find that EOS and different things but it
was- it wasn’t rib tickling EOS it wasn’t like, belly laugh out loud a
minute, all the way through it, but there was some, there were some
bits in it that you thought, that’s, you know, that was quite funny,
and it was good entertainment, but we went- we went in erm, it was
good entertainment for- for an afternoon, and we went with **anon**
and **anon** so I mean that was, it’s just nice, and we had- we went
in erm, before- do you know where- do you know where- opposite EOS
have they, I’ve nev- I’ve ne- I’ve never been, yeah, well that’s it
you see EOS I’ve only heard of that on rock radio EOS cause they go on
about, sometimes, erm, they have like pre- pre concert parties there
and erm, so, we’ve never been in so- so **anon** says, ‘oh go on, have
a go in Walkabout’ and we went in there, and I’ve gotta admit, it’s a
bit of a shit hole isn’t it EOS I mean, the seats are r- have you ever
been in? oh, th- this, I mean it’s- is it- I don’t know exactly- is it
like just a cheap and cheerful place t- to drink EOS and are- is it-
do they have rooms there or something, is there places you can stay? I
don’t know, but the s- you know, we sat on these seats and you
thought, they’ve been ripped, and the, you know, I’m not saying the
floor was sticky but, it wasn’t quite as bad as that but EOS y- you
thought, no, this is- this is not- have you been in- did you say you’d
been in it? that’s about enough EOS yeah, but yeah, I suppose it- I
suppose that by- but it’s funny you said about Australian because I
remember, on rock radio, they were saying about free, I dunno, free
beers or something or, you know, come in fancy dress and you- you can
have a bar tab or something like that, I can’t- I can’t actually
remember, but it was actually erm, I- I don’t know, I didn’t quite- I
didn’t, it wasn’t busy but I just thought I wouldn’t, it’s not the
sorta place I’d erm, HELLO