 43.50 . EOS Right when you’re ready. EOS You start off Fearne then.
EOS Well I went to school in which is called school. EOS mm, mm EOS
You know I’ve been there for a long time. A very long- I couldn’t
remember how many years but I lived there for a long time with me
parents. EOS mm EOS Erm we moved away from - EOS Yeah EOS and lived in
. I used to live at the . Been there a long time EOS mm EOS so I moved
to up road now, which as you know I live on my own, so it’s just that
erm you know I get on with- EOS Were you happy at school? EOS Yes I
was. Yeah I was happy at school. EOS were you, mm EOS Yeah, yeah. It’s
just that when I went there, in- in EOS mm EOS I had to wear you know
like- go to a- like a clinic thing. EOS mm EOS I had to wear this
cardboard hat over me head cos the sun, EOS yeah, mm EOS for a reason,
cos of me eyes, so EOS You’re right, yeah. Yes. EOS That’s why I had
me eyes tested. EOS mm EOS Some- I mean they sent you a reminder that
your eyes are due to be tested, you know. EOS mm, yeah, yeah EOS But
they always seem to be okay The- these are me reading glasses and the
ones I’ve got at home, they’re for the television. But as I say school
sports, but I never done that at all. Well I’ve done sports but not
done- I don’t think I’ve done music and drama cos I was fostered out
when I was- when I was a child. EOS Were you, yeah? EOS yeah, yeah
when me and my sister were very- w- we were forstered out cos me
mother was tookayvery ill, very poorly- EOS Yeah, yes EOS and, I did
enjoy sch- we did enjoy school EOS mm EOS you know. But erm when we
came out of fostering I can’t remember what happened then. It’s- It
was a long- a very long time ago EOS yeah, yeah, mm EOS and your
favourite teacher, well I just can’t remember about- favourite teacher
at all about that. But when I remember from your first day at school
we just enjoy- you get to know EOS mm EOS young people you know in- in
the school yard like. EOS And I do remember but erm that one in I
don’t- I don’t know if it’s still there or not cos I’ve not been down
to for ages. EOS And did you have what our school had, an outside
toilet? EOS I think we did. EOS But it was cold in the winter EOS I
think- I think we did. I think we did. I think we did. EOS Yeah, mm,
yeah. You wouldn’t forget if you did, no EOS No, no EOS Now what-
were- were your summers holidays like when you were young? Well, when
I was young I had no holidays been put back- erm I don’t think I went
to go away much. EOS No. EOS When I got a bit older. EOS yeah EOS I
have been to Scotland. You know I’ve been to Scotland- EOS mm, you’ve
been to Scot- yeah yeah. EOS Err I went out with somebody like ages-
I’m going back ages ago but EOS mm EOS erm no as I said to you before
I’m on- I’m on me own now. EOS So I just keep on going you know. I
like my walks and everything you know. EOS Yeah yeah, yeah EOS You
know I like coming here for my lunch EOS Yeah yeah, yeah, yeah EOS I
mean the staff are very good to you. EOS Were you happy at school? EOS
Yes I was very happy at school. Yeah, yeah. EOS I hate- I hated it EOS
Well you- you had to go- you had to go didn’t you to learn. EOS Yeah
yeah mm EOS You know and erm I did have a brother. Erm mind you he’s
not long with me. He passed- EOS Yes, that’s it- EOS He passed away.
I’ve got another brother- EOS You’ve got another brother, yeah. EOS he
lives in Oldham and he do- he do- he rings me once a fortnight or I-
I- or I ring him EOS Yeah, yeah, yeah. EOS and erm I had another
brother but we don’t get on at all. EOS No. EOS and erm what extra you
are. Schoo- sports, music- we’ve said that haven’t we. I like sports
you know I like sports. No problem at all with sports. You know you do
the sack race and egg-spoon race and all this kind of thing you know.
EOS It says here did you ever get you ever get into trouble at school?
EOS No I didn’t. EOS No you didn’t . EOS No I didn’t. EOS No, no EOS
Did you Edmund ? EOS Pardon. EOS Did you? EOS Not really no. See I- I-
I started school at . EOS mm EOS Was only there a year and me parents
said it wasn’t suitable cos of me problem with me speech. EOS Oh okay
EOS They used to hit me over the head with a ruler to get the words
out and it made you wo- EOS Yeah. EOS And then I went to . I don’t
know if you’ve ever heard of EOS mm EOS it’s a- I loved it there.
There was two ladies that’s all who taught you. I didn’t like school
with having the problem with speech. EOS mm EOS It was- you know- but
erm I went and as soon as I- I was fourteen I left. EOS Really? EOS
Yeah. EOS Mm. EOS I just didn’t like it. EOS mm EOS So did I get into
trouble? No I don’t think I did. The only t- I- yeah I got six of the
best once. EOS Mm. EOS Why? EOS Well I used to write d- I used to go
to s- erm the school that and there’s always a bully- EOS Mm. EOS Mm.
EOS and I was riding me bike back to school and he stopped me and he
made me give him a lift on my crossbar. And when I got to school- oh I
got stopped- we got stopped on the way there by a policeman. EOS mm
EOS ‘Which school do you go to?’ So I told him and the middle of the
afternoon I was in the headmaster’s office and I got six of the best.
EOS mm EOS Caned for doing that. And lookayat the world today. EOS Mm.
EOS Mm. EOS Just with having someone on- on your bike. On your
crossbar. EOS Well I left school- I think I left school when I was
six- I think I was sixteen when I left s- when I left school, I- EOS
Mm. I- I liked me childhood days yes because I was l- lucky that our
house was only about the- a couple of hundred yards off a farm. EOS mm
EOS oh, that’s nice EOS And I was always on there and I love animals.
EOS Mm. EOS Yeah. EOS And me favourite animal’s the cow. It’s so laid
back and- EOS Mm. EOS just like that the cow you know. So I spent a- a
lot of my- my time with animals on- on the farm you know. EOS Yeah,
that’s nice EOS I once- yeah I was still at school and there was a c-
c- couple of farms not- short distance. And the farmer asked me to go
to the other farm and erm excuse me. I was walking it and there’s some
ditches where all the water drains in- EOS Yeah. EOS and there was a
man on a bike acting suspicious. EOS mm EOS So I- I watched him and
then I went on and I caught a butterfly in me hand. EOS Oh EOS He
cycled up to me then and said ‘what have you got in your hand?’ I said
‘a butterfly’ He said erm, ‘let it go! You don’t know what it’s like
t- to be fastened up’. EOS mm, mm EOS So I did and erm I went to the
other farm and walking back I went to have a lookayin this ditch. And
I found erm clothes, prison clothes . It was an escaped prisoner. EOS
So I left them and I went to the police station in Urmston and they
said ‘have a lookayat will you at this bookayand see if you can find
him’. And I found him and they gave me five shillings. EOS Really? EOS
yeah EOS Oh five shillings oh. EOS S- so erm I can u- understand the
story now with the butterfly and you know EOS Yeah. EOS S- so that was
on- one of my school stories anyway and erm I suppose there’s a lot
isn’t there really. But it wasn’t bad. I enjoyed me school i- in a
way. EOS Yeah. EOS Mm. EOS And erm and I’m a great believer your
life’s mapped out EOS mm EOS because on the piece of land I live now I
lived in nineteen thirty. EOS Really? EOS But this is a modern house
now and there was an old house on there. EOS mm EOS And I didn’t know
when I bought this house exactly where I’d lived. EOS That’s funny.
EOS So I do believe y- your life in a way your pattern of life is led.
EOS Mm, mm EOS You know because I’m going to end up where I started
off you know . EOS mm EOS Mm. Have you got any more Fearne then them
that you’ve thought of? EOS Well there’s one here one at the top. W-
where are your parents from? Now that’s an **inc** question because
erm I got an old photograph at home. EOS Mm. EOS Very old photograph.
EOS Mm. EOS Erm when me mother was alive- EOS Yeah. EOS she lived w-
we moved away from up to- moved up to . She was alive then- EOS Yeah.
EOS but I didn’t knew me father at all. EOS No. EOS No. So- so I don’t
know about that one but erm I mean me uncles and all that me aunties
are you know passed away. So it’s- EOS yeah EOS Yeah, yeah, yeah. EOS
So- so it just that, erm, w- EOS Is your mother from L- Lancashire or
out of the county? EOS Erm sh- sh- she could- she could be. I mean you
know. EOS mm, you don’t really know. EOS We don’t really know. You
know you’re so young you sometimes you know. EOS mm EOS Do you know
what happened in those days? They would never tell you anything. EOS
Really? EOS Your parents. They kept s- **inc** secret. EOS mm EOS I
erm- when I was five I went to my Grandma’s funeral in . EOS Yeah. EOS
And you weren’t allowed to see anything so I- I was taken for a walk
in the village. It was a lovely village. There was a stream and it was
a beautiful village and I was only five. And all me life I had this
picture of this village and whenever I asked my parents what it was
called ‘what do you want to know for?’ And I must’ve been about
seventy and we had a motorhome then. EOS And I said to my wife ‘come
on. I’m going to find- EOS Yeah. EOS the name of this village’. I knew
where one of the ancestors lived and we went into this erm village and
they said ‘oh you’d better ask at the postoffice he’ll know’. So we
went in the postoffice, says ‘I can’t help you. I’ve only been here
two weeks’. EOS Oh EOS So he didn’t know any of the villagers. So an-
anyway in the end we did find a person of the surname that we were
looking for. So we went round to this house and as we- and I said to
me wife ‘get out and ask this lady walking down the path if they know
a ’. So she got out and this lady says ‘come on in it’s me mother’.
EOS Really? EOS mm, oh EOS Yeah. And she told me the name of the
village. So after about seventy years I went back and it still looked
the same to me. EOS Really? EOS But they had secrets they wouldn’t
tell you. EOS mm EOS mm EOS ‘W- what do you want to know for?’ And
erm- EOS Yeah, yeah, yeah EOS So I’m half Lancashire and half
Yorkshire. EOS Mm. EOS ooh EOS Mother’s from Yorkshire. Near . And me
dad’s from and he was a joiner. Erm me- m- mother w- worked in
service. EOS mm EOS What was called service in those days. She more or
less lived in the house and was responsible for the house. EOS yeah
EOS Looking after it. Cleaning it, meals, everything you know EOS mm
EOS and in those days it was called service. And she worked in then.
EOS Mm EOS Erm not much about school is there at the moment? EOS No,
no erm EOS it’s just that I’m looking at this other one here, EOS mm
EOS the local evening news stories about thi- important people know
about your- your town. EOS Well as I said before in I meant to t- I
meant to tell you this but I got two sisters which I never seen. EOS
No. EOS very long- for a very long time. EOS mm EOS I’ve got their
address and I gave it to me brother to- EOS mm EOS you know to get in
touch you know with us but I don’t know if he’s done it yet. I don’t
know. Sometimes- I usually go down to see him but he meets me so, cos
it’s a long way. EOS Right. EOS Mm. EOS c- cos he’s moved into a
bungalow now you see. He’s not- he’s never been married you know,
he’s- EOS Mm. EOS Well I’m not asking how old you are Fearne but - EOS
No. I’m not that bothered about my age. EOS Were you at school in the
war or- or af- or after? EOS I’ll be- I was born in nineteen forty one
so I’ll be- EOS Oh you missed it. Well no you were born in the war.
EOS **inc** born in the war yeah. EOS mm, mm, mm EOS So I’ve got an
old big photograph you know erm at home somewhere but erm- EOS Yeah.
EOS I remember I used to have this old three wheeled bike. Very old
three wheeled bike- EOS Mm oh yeah. Yeah. EOS A very old one you know.
In , very old. And the people w- w- when we put our house up for sale
EOS Yeah. EOS and a nice couple b- bought it. You know nice coloured
people bought it you know EOS mm, mm EOS So that’s when we moved for
my mother’s health you know. EOS Yeah mm. EOS Mm. EOS So she couldn’t
travel. She couldn’t go out at all much. EOS Yeah. EOS No. EOS No, so
EOS Well the war started didn’t it in nineteen thirty nine. EOS Yeah,
yeah so- EOS And I was at school then- EOS Yeah. EOS Yeah. EOS which
overlooked the canal. EOS Oh. EOS Oh the boats that went along there
they were fabulous you know it’s- you don’t see them now. EOS No. EOS
They’ve all gone. EOS Mm. EOS Massive big boats with a- a- a tug a- at
the front to pull it. T- t- tug at the back to steady it back you
know- EOS Mm. EOS and the bridge used to swing EOS and that was good
there th- for a- w- watching that you know. EOS Mm. EOS So I- I was at
school when the war started and erm it was a queer time because all
the street signs were moved. All the lights were taken awa- no lights
were allowed to be on. EOS Mm. EOS All the cars had to have a light
with a slit in it only. EOS It was a- a weird place didn’t it. All the
names went didn’t they. EOS Mm. EOS They were taken away and- and
where I lived in there was a barrage balloon site on the corner. And
the barrage balloon was- it was f- f- filled with gas and when the
airraid came it used to go into the air to stop aircraft d- diving
down. EOS Oh, okay. EOS Because we lived a short distance from - EOS
Yeah, mm EOS which was erm industry in the war. EOS Mm. EOS And erm-
and when the wind was- if the barrage balloon went up and it was windy
the ba- the barrage balloon used to sway into our- our back garden you
know and erm yeah. EOS did it? EOS You just were frightened to death
you know and they erm and leading to was big oil drums on the side of
the road- EOS Right. EOS with a **inc** out. EOS mm EOS And the
Germans used to follow the ship c- canal from L- Liverpool- EOS Mm.
EOS when the- the moonlight was out you can be sure there’s going to
be a raid you know. EOS Mm. EOS And you used to f- f- follow the moon
No left channel EOS up the canal and if the wind was blowing to
Trafford Park they used to light these oil drums so a mass of smoke
went over the park and they couldn’t find it. EOS Oh. EOS Oh. EOS
Yeah. So erm- I think I’ve lived in the best time cos radio was still
new. T- television had been thought of but it had been put on one side
because of the war. EOS yeah EOS Buses were always on time. EOS
**inc** EOS Weren’t they Fearne ? EOS Oh yeah. EOS If you went out for
a bus- EOS It’d be there EOS it was there. EOS mm EOS And you can erm-
it was you know. Now what are the most important changes in- in a- in
your town? EOS don’t know EOS Mm. EOS Well it’s changed- we have no
cinemas left. EOS No. No we haven’t. There’s- that big one in Sale-
EOS Yeah. EOS that’s just standing there. I know- I used to go there
one time. EOS Yeah **inc** EOS But it’s just standing there doing
nothing you know. Sh- sh- it’s a shame really you know. EOS They’ve
gone because my youth I used to go to the cinema about twice a week.
EOS Yeah. EOS And when I got a little bit older, do you remember
Urmston baths? EOS Not the old one. EOS Not the old one. EOS I know
the new one. talks about- cos it used to be the didn’t it? EOS Yeah.
EOS Yeah. EOS Well the Urmston baths in the winter. They used to empty
the water out- EOS Mm. EOS put a wooden floor over it. And it was
sprung like a proper dance floor and they had dancing every Saturday
and Wednesday. EOS Really? EOS And they had a big bands. About a
fifteen piece band that came every week. EOS Ah. EOS Mm. EOS That was
fun. EOS Mm. EOS And you daren’t drink cos if you’d had a drink a girl
wouldn’t dance with you. EOS It was very strict in those days. EOS So
yeah U- Urmston’s v- very busy now. Whereas I can- one- one memory
I’ve got in the school days when the war started was me mother pushing
the pram with my sister in- EOS Mm . EOS down to Urmston a blackout c-
c- curtaining you know. Cos we had orders. We hadn’t got to sh- sh-
show any lights at all and- EOS Yeah. EOS you had to have your windows
blacked out so nobody could see and that is one of the memories I’ve
got. And then the bombs dropping round you. It was a bit of a hectic
time wasn’t it. EOS **inc** EOS **inc** anxious time. EOS **inc**
those- those days, yeah EOS You never got a night in bed- EOS Mm. EOS
Mm. EOS without you were i- in- in a- a air raid sh- shelter. EOS Yeah
that’s right they’d shelters didn’t they. Yeah. EOS No. Ours- ours was
in the house. EOS Really? EOS There was an Anderson shelter- you’ve-
have you heard of an Anderson? EOS I’m not quite sure if I have heard
of it. EOS It’s all cast- and it’s all iron metal. EOS Right. EOS With
four sides and a metal top. So if the bomb- house fell on it it
wouldn’t- you’d be safe inside there you know. EOS Yeah. EOS Yeah. EOS
We had a wired mesh all around it like an- animals **inc**. EOS And
that was called- and that was inside ours. The Anderson shelter. EOS
We had one outside our house. EOS Did you? EOS In our old house. EOS
yeah EOS It had like pebbles over it so it looked like it was just
part of the ground. EOS Yeah so it looked like a part of the garden.
Yeah. EOS Oh yeah. EOS I never- we couldn’t get into it cos it was all
blocked off inside. EOS Mm. EOS Oh. EOS But at least I found **inc**.
EOS Yeah, yeah. Yeah th- they were scary days weren’t they in a way
Fearne ? EOS Mm it was yeah. EOS You know cos you didn’t know what’s
going to happen. EOS I mean I was only v- I must’ve been very young-
EOS Yeah. EOS to you know. It’s erm- EOS mm EOS Well as I said I
didn’t like school. EOS Did you move house at all when you were young?
What memories do you have of this? EOS I moved house once. I moved
from where I live now to another part of where me p- parents stayed
until they p- passed away so- EOS Yes. EOS so they were there a long
time. EOS Mm. Mm. EOS I- I- I lived there ‘til I was twenty five. Cos
there was a lot going on in Urmston then. EOS Mm. EOS I went- with
being stammering I was very shy and reserved and I thought I’ve got to
do summat about this. So I went and had d- d- d- d- dancing lessons in
Urmston. EOS Really? EOS Yeah and I enjoyed it and I’ve got all my
medals for dancing . EOS mm EOS Yeah and that was a way of b- bringing
me out you know EOS **inc** EOS Yeah. Mm. And then course you were
always g- going dancing and m- we had a milk bar in Urmston. EOS Did
you- did you have a milk bar at all ? EOS If I could remember it’s-
EOS They only sold milkshakes. EOS Really? EOS Mm. S- sh- shop’s still
there now but they’ve run out of milk. It’s gone. EOS Yeah. I tell you
what I was thinking of last night. I knew what I wanted to do when I
left school and as soon as I was fourteen I was out. EOS Mm. EOS And I
wanted to be a lithographic printer. EOS Oh yeah. EOS I was always
interested in printing all- this was nineteen forty four. There was
one year left of the war. But it was ending and there were soldiers
were arriving home then. EOS mm EOS So they had to have their old jobs
back. EOS Right. EOS You c- I c- could not get a job EOS mm EOS to be
a lithographic printer. So- I’m talking a lot aren’t I. EOS No you ca-
no you carry on you carry on! EOS So there was an advert in the
newspaper. The evening news. EOS ‘Boy wanted to learn lithographic
printing’ Manchester. So I was there for eight o’clock and the job had
gone. EOS Right. EOS Oh. EOS Dear me. Anyway so they said ‘but we’ve
got a vacancy in the handwritten department’. Now don’t ask me what
that was. EOS So they- I went along with them upstairs and they showed
me. There was about nine men working there all doing handwritten
posters- EOS Oh. EOS which they did in those days. EOS Mm. EOS I mean
I can r- r- remember Urmston it was just full of posters on the walls.
Most of those were hand done. EOS mm EOS mm EOS All- o- others were
lithographic printed so I started there. And erm to cut a long story
short I did that the rest of my life for fifty years. EOS But when I
worked there got a pound a week. EOS A pound. EOS And I’ve written
this down because I’d forget it wouldn’t I EOS You came prepared . EOS
I had to go on the bus to Manchester six days a week. That cost me
fifty four d, old p- pence a week. I had to give me m- mother ninety p
oh no d, of the old money. EOS Mm. EOS I used to go to the pictures
twice a week for th- th- thirty d. Thirty pence. Thirty eight old
money and I was left with sixty six p- p- p- EOS **inc** EOS for a
week and that was a pound. EOS Pound. EOS And I used to live on it EOS
mm EOS mmhmm EOS and I think now. I think that’s now why it’s made me
appreciate- EOS Yeah. EOS mm EOS the value of money. EOS Mm. EOS And
erm if I can jump a bit further I then left there and went to work for
another firm who did, you won’t have heard of these will you- EOS No.
EOS You’ll have heard of them won’t you? EOS **inc** EOS Oh yes, yeah,
yeah. EOS Yeah, yeah. EOS **inc** EOS Yes. Mm. EOS Oh dear. EOS Well
the were the biggest circuit in England of cinemas. EOS Oh, okay. EOS
And some cinemas used to change three times a week. Monday Tuesday
Wednesday, Thursday Friday Saturday and a different one on a Sunday-
EOS Right. EOS so people went. EOS Yeah. EOS And there was about- I
think there was sixty of us worked there. And we used to do abou- I- I
forget the amount but it was in hundreds. The circuit was in hundreds
of cinemas. And we used to do them all by hand every week. One week’s
holiday. A forty eight hour week and that’s where I really learnt me
job there you know my trade. EOS mm, yeah. EOS They went bankrupt. EOS
Oh no. EOS And I got oth- other jobs you know and then I always wanted
to have me own business and I started my own business in nineteen
sixty six . I found this old property and I started in business on two
weeks holiday pay that I’d got from the firm. EOS Yeah. EOS Fifteen-
thirty pound it was for two weeks. EOS Uh huh. EOS **inc** EOS Out of
that I had to pay sixteen pound to rent the shop. It was a big gamble
wasn’t it. EOS Mm. EOS Yeah. EOS But I was lucky that I got the c-
custom you know. EOS Yeah. EOS Struggled and erm- but people were good
in those days c- anyway I- I managed to get- make friends with a
chappy who worked for I think it was Esso petroleum. And he- he was
responsible for ad- advertising and he used to bring me the
advertising to do you know big wooden signs. EOS Yeah EOS And so I
hadn’t erm money to buy the wood even to do them on. But there was a
wonderful sh- shop in where th- you know they used to sell wood. EOS
Mm. EOS And he said to me ‘Edmund you take it. When you get paid you
pay me’ and I thought that was lovely that. EOS Yeah. EOS You know.
And I worked on my own for t- twenty five years and enjoyed it. Erm
and I lookayback on life it’s- it’s had its bad times I’ve married
twice. EOS Yeah. EOS First time okay, you can’t have it perfect can
you. EOS Mm. EOS And then me wife- I went out with me wife once when I
was about eighteen and the problem was she was a friend of the fam- or
their- her parents were a friend of my parents and whenever she came
round I went out you know. EOS mm EOS Mm. EOS So anyway we went out
with each other once. We didn’t like each other EOS dear me. EOS We
went off an married somebody else and fifteen years later I got
divorced. D- didn’t know where was. Hadn’t the slightest where she
was. Until a friend of mine who was an insurance agent he said ‘I’ve
just knocked at a house in Stretford and this - came to the door.’ I
said ‘did she?’ He said ‘yeah’ he said erm ‘she’s got divorced and
she’s living in and she’s a bit of alright yeah Edmund ’ Left channel
resumes EOS oh dear EOS So Edmund wrote to her mother EOS And that’s
how that started all over again. EOS Really? Oh. EOS So you can see
why I believe your life’s mapped out. EOS Yeah. EOS Cos how did I meet
her again in when I was here? EOS Yeah. EOS You know. EOS And both
divorced and things. EOS Yeah this is it you know. And that- that was
fantastic that. I’ve got a boy off me first marriage and off the
second I’ve got t- two girls you know. EOS **inc** EOS One’s okay
One’s very okay, one’s lovely. EOS mm EOS And the other one sh- she
was even odd with her mother you know. EOS Mm. EOS I haven’t heard off
her for a year now. EOS Really? EOS I mean her mum died th- th- th-
what three year ago now wouldn’t it be. Yeah. And erm sh- she’s
strange. EOS Mm. EOS Course there’s always strange ones about. EOS mm
EOS P- people say I’m strange. No left channel EOS Well when I left
school- EOS Yeah. EOS when I left school I would **inc** I did erm I
work in - EOS Yeah. EOS in a factory but erm I was a- I was a cleaner
there. EOS Mm. EOS Cleaner. You know full time cleaner. EOS Oh yeah,
yeah. EOS I’ve not just do- I’ve always done cleaning. EOS Who do you
work for? I might know them. EOS Erm well it’s called - . It’s not-
they’re not there an- EOS No, no. EOS But the building’s still there.
EOS Yeah. No I don’t remember them. EOS Erm the- it- quite a few got
made redundant. EOS Mm. EOS I couldn’t tell you how many years that
was. EOS Yeah. EOS But I was made redundant. EOS Yeah. EOS And then I
worked in the erm- in the canteen you know. I’ve done canteen work.
EOS mm EOS I’ve done looking after children- EOS Yeah. EOS And erm as
you know I look after dogs and all this kind of thing. EOS Yeah of
course. Yeah yeah. Mm. EOS You know erm hal- in the fact the people
I’ve just c- come back from Italy- EOS Mm. EOS Erm it was me last
night last night cos they came- EOS They came back did they? Yeah. EOS
**inc** back yesterday afternoon about half past two. Yeah. They were
very pleased everything was okay you know. EOS Yeah. EOS Cos they
know. I’ve been with them what it must be about twenty one years I’ve
been with them you know cos they know they can trust me there- EOS Mm,
mm, that’s right. EOS you know. They know the two cats are being
getting looked after. EOS That’s the most important thing in life
isn’t it trust. EOS Yeah. EOS Trust t- trust you know. EOS You know.
If they trust you. I’ve got a lady who does my house work and I come
out many a day and she lets herself in and I’ve got a lot of f- faith
in and trust in her and it’s nice to have- EOS Yeah. EOS Yeah yeah.
EOS cos that’s important part of life is trust. EOS Yeah yeah. EOS You
know. EOS Yeah. EOS Isn’t it? I you don’t mind if I chatter? EOS No
you carry on EOS . It’s what he’s good at EOS He is isn’t he carry on.
EOS In ninetee- with having me own business- EOS Mm. EOS in nineteen
seventy four I was invited to join the Rotary Club . Have you heard of
Rotary? EOS No. EOS No. You’ll- you might’ve heard of Rotary. EOS I
might’ve heard of it. Long time ago **inc**. EOS They used to come
round the streets at C- Christmas time with a Christmas float. Yours
in - EOS Yeah they used to do it- they used- EOS and Lymm- Lymm- Lymm
R- Rotary Club came round. EOS Yeah. EOS And it- it was- EOS it was
started in America originally. EOS Mm. EOS And it’s for business men
you know who’ve reached the top of the ladder. EOS Yeah. EOS Well I
couldn’t go any higher cos I worked myself. EOS You see. So- EOS I was
invited to join you know. EOS Oh. EOS And that was good. And that gave
me a lot of confidence- EOS Mm. EOS because they have to stand up and
s- give a talk once a year. EOS Right. EOS And I was still very bad
stammering. And erm when it was my t- turn the first time they said
‘Edmund you don’t have to do it if you don’t want’. EOS Yeah. EOS I
said I’m going to make them have it you know. But I did it okay
because they’re all on your side. EOS Yeah. EOS That’s the best part
of it. EOS mmhmm EOS So I w- I was in t- twenty one years in Rotary. I
was ch- chairman of the community section which looked after the area
you know and I loved- EOS I like local charity work- EOS Mm. Yeah.
Yeah. EOS and looking after the area where I know. And whenever it was
my turn to speak th- the president would announce it the week before
that next weeks speaker is Edmund Jacobs - EOS and we’re extending the
lunch half an hour EOS Oh dear. EOS But all that helped you. EOS Yeah.
Yeah. EOS Yeah. EOS And do you know what I ended up there doing? I was
speaker’s secretary. EOS Really? EOS Oh . EOS And yeah. Now that was a
good p- part of my life. EOS Mm. EOS Mm. EOS An- and the wife was in-
i- in the ladies section. I was invited every year to be president but
because you had to visit other clubs I’ve turned it down. But my wife
acc- c- cepted the ladies side of it. EOS Mm. EOS oh right EOS so I
used to go out for free meals with her then. EOS . EOS oh dear. EOS So
tha- that was it. Yeah but in those days Rotary was nearly consisted
of- EOS doctors, surgeons, solicitors. All local people. All the shops
in Urmston were owned b- by the actual owner. They were privately
owned. EOS Oh. EOS And they were all members of the Rotary Club. But
there’s none left now. EOS No no. EOS You’ve got the dentist. You’ve
got them all sorts of- all walks of life as a member. EOS yeah EOS
Yeah. EOS And erm but it’s gone now. You can’t walk into any shop
without its being a big c- concern. EOS Yeah. Mm. EOS I mean there’s
not a- a lot of these shops like left EOS yeah EOS where you can s- s-
see the owner. EOS Mm. EOS Yeah. EOS They’ve gone. That’s the personal
touch that’s gone. EOS Yeah. EOS Mm. EOS Yeah you’re right. EOS
Because I was- a lady I rented me shop off she said to me cos her’s
was a- next door she says ‘let me give you a bit of advice. Get a good
accountant- EOS Mm. EOS and never lose the personal touch’. EOS Yeah.
EOS And you’re always there to- EOS That’s the thing with the chain
stores isn’t it. EOS Well it is yeah. EOS They don’t have the personal
touches and- EOS It’s sad that isn’t it you know. EOS Mm. EOS And like
I said earlier on the buses were always on time. EOS Mm. EOS I mean I
had to be at work for eight o’clock . Excuse me. And if I missed the
twenty five past seven there was one at half past. EOS Yeah. EOS And
if I missed the half past there was one at twenty five to. And the
twenty five to just got me there. EOS Yeah. EOS Mm. EOS You know. But
there wasn’t as m- many p- people on the roads then- EOS Mm. EOS so
the b- buses weren’t held up. EOS Yeah. EOS Erm have you got anything
else for a- a minute? EOS Well I’m on this- what do local people like?
**inc** EOS What do the local people like? EOS Well where I- where I
live in I’ve got- I’ve got good neighbours. EOS Yeah. EOS You know.
Erm I mean at the back there’s no houses it’s just fields you know.
EOS Mm. EOS Right. EOS I do have good erm some people- EOS Well I’ve
noticed that now. EOS Yeah very ni- EOS Now I’m you know on- on my
own. EOS yeah EOS Everybody knows me. I know them. EOS bet you chat to
them all EOS And erm- and a- a lady opposite with her husband you
know. And when I go out at all in the evening which is not- I don’t
like to go out now. It’s not safe for- EOS Yeah. EOS older people to
go out and that’s one of the sad things of life which I’ll go back to
in a minute that. It’s reminded me of something. Erm I’ve got to let
this lady know I’m going out and w- when I’ll be back. EOS Yeah. EOS
Which is good. EOS Mm. EOS So she can keep an eye on you. EOS It’s to
keep an eye on me cos she knows if- if I don’t get up in the morning
something’s happened don’t they. EOS Mm. EOS You know what they used
to like Fearne ? EOS What? EOS Christmas time. Go into Manchester
looking at arcade. EOS Oh aye. EOS When it was Christmas it- had long
windows down the side of an arcade. EOS Mm. EOS The other side of the
arcade was and erm every window was decorated at Christmas with
animation and animals and moving and there was a real spirit of
Christmas. EOS Mm. EOS And people used to go down especially just to
look in the windows when it was closed. EOS Really. EOS Mm. EOS Now I
came to Urmston on Sunday and I drove th- th- through Urmston- excuse
me and nearly every window was shuttered. EOS Mm. EOS Metal shutters.
Well in my youth you could walk and look in all the shops. EOS Yeah.
EOS Yeah. EOS Enjoy yourself. Nowhere was open EOS mm EOS but today
it’s all ‘keep out’ shutters- EOS Keep it. Yeah. Keep out, yeah EOS
you know. We don’t want you and all like that and- EOS Mm. EOS No,
yeah, yeah. EOS And I saw s- something the other day that disgusted me
really. EOS House for sale sign and they’ve got to s- s- set them
alight these days. Well what do they get out of it? EOS Yeah. EOS This
is it- EOS W- w- what do you get out of damaging anything? EOS Mm.
It’s the same you know a car’s been stolen. They burn it don’t they.
EOS Yeah. EOS Many times in - EOS Mmhmm EOS they’re forced to put
these new railings up at that big school. EOS Mmhmm EOS Many time- I-
and we used to go in there and we used to look after the dogs. And
they used to take the dogs in there. EOS yeah EOS I kept them on the
lead cos they weren’t my dogs. EOS mm EOS yeah EOS And erm I used to
take you know a doggy bag with me. EOS Mm. EOS Mm. EOS Anyway you
always see- every now and again you see cars been burned. EOS Oh yeah,
yeah. EOS And I f- I feel sorry for the person. EOS The person yeah.
EOS You know. Find out one morning the car’s not there. EOS Yeah. You
can’t- I can’t understand- EOS I- I can’t understand why they can’t-
why they do this kind of thing. EOS Did you want to ask us any
questions? Are w- are w- are we running out of time? EOS Erm you’ve
got t- ten minutes. EOS Ten minutes! EOS **inc** my word. EOS My g-
my- EOS Can I just say? Erm my wife and I we- a lot of people don’t
like caravans. EOS Anyway- EOS I had one and I used to hold people up
on the road. You know. EOS Erm EOS we did about th- th- thirty years
you know. But when I- I- I retired my s- **inc** we’ll go up into a
motorhome which was as fast as a car could go. EOS Yeah. EOS And I’ve
been all over England, Scotland and Wales and our hobby when I r-
retired was adopting the old guide dogs. EOS Really? EOS Oh yeah I
**inc**. EOS Oh I loved doing that and I’ve got five dogs’ ashes in
the back garden. EOS Oh. EOS And I’m an emotional person and the first
dog we adopted w- was- the owner was blind and deaf. Yeah blind and
deaf. So he had to be with a g- guide dog but he couldn’t hear as
well. EOS God that must be difficult. EOS So that was difficult. EOS
Mm. EOS So the pers- so w- got her you know y- y- you’re interviewed
at home to see if you’re suitable. EOS Mm. EOS And w- when you get the
dog they come back in a fortnight to make sure that you’re- the dogs
are settled. EOS mm, mm EOS Yeah. EOS And we- oh we went to this dog
called Honey. And the day before we got a phone call from the guide
dogs. He says ‘I hope you don’t mind he wants to meet you’. I said ‘no
I don’t mind’ you know. And erm- so we went down and we met him. M- m-
my wife sat beside him and questions were asked and if it meant just a
yes or a- a no answer- EOS Mm. EOS my wife had to either t- t- t- tap
his hand for yes. I forget which way round or- EOS Mm. EOS rub it for
no you know. EOS Oh okay EOS And anyway the- he had a- like a- a
machine tha- a braille machine. EOS Yeah. EOS And the guide dog people
used to t- t- type the message in and he picked it up. EOS Right. EOS
So that- but he must’ve gone deaf later in life cos he could still
talk. EOS Yeah. EOS So he could talk to us, anyhow, after half an hour
he’d- he’d handed over the- the- the lead to my wife. He’d handed over
the dog’s tablets. He had his other dog there- EOS Mm. EOS but he was
handing over his eyes and his ears. EOS Aw. EOS And after half an hour
they said to me ‘Mr Jacobs will you t- t- take the dog’s lead and go’.
Well I got outside there and I thought I’ve taken his eyes and ears
away and I cried my eyes out. and they had to take me for a cup of tea
you know. EOS Aw . EOS It’s- it’s a traumatic situation- EOS Yep EOS
mm EOS taking away- EOS Yeah. I’ve- I’ve done a lot of erm- I do a lot
of charity work for- EOS Yeah. EOS for animals you know. EOS Oh okay
Yeah. EOS And I- you know you had coppers I’d save them in a carrier
bag. EOS Mm yeah. EOS Sainsbury’s carrier bag and I take them down to
erm Sale. EOS Yeah. EOS Mm. EOS the, you know, for sick animals.
That’s what I did because I love animals you know. I don’t like to see
people to be cruel you know. EOS Oh no no. EOS No. EOS Well I seen a
greyhound near- in Partington- EOS Mm. EOS I don’t know who it belongs
to but it had a- like a- one of these white collars you know. EOS Oh
yeah. Yeah. EOS I don’t know if it had escaped from a greyhound thing
or what. EOS Mm somebody owned it yeah. EOS Or- it came up to me
friendly. EOS Mm. EOS I was watching these- these lads you know.
They’re always drinking frigging beer. Wha- you know. EOS Yeah oh I
know. Yeah mm. EOS I didn- I saw this- this chap ‘go away, go a-
away’. EOS Yeah. EOS And I thought leave him alone. Poor thing’s not
doing any harm. EOS Yeah of course he’s not hurting anyone. EOS Yeah.
EOS And I took some biscuits out with me last night. EOS Mm. EOS and
he wasn’t there. EOS Wasn’t there. EOS No so I don’t know who- who
owns it. But it’s a- it’s a shame you know. EOS Mm. EOS Well, when-
when we had ordinary dogs you know pet dogs before we started to
adopt- EOS Mm. EOS Oh that’s right. We got to the end of the- I- with
the guide dogs. EOS I was saying I don’t think I can have another
because of walking them. So the vet came out with the dogs. He says
‘this dogs are l- these dogs are lovely to walk’. T- twenty minutes a
day and they spent the rest of the time by the fire. And that was a
greyhound. EOS Yeah. EOS Greyhound yeah. EOS Yeah. EOS Yeah. EOS So
erm anyway I- I never got round to it because me doggy died and then
me wife died. EOS Yeah. EOS And on your own you can’t look after a
dog. EOS Yeah. EOS But just going back to life. Fearne and myself go
to church. EOS Yeah. EOS Now whether that’s made us any better people
I don’t know. EOS Well it does with me because I mean I do believe.
You know. EOS Yeah. EOS I’m- I am a Christian and I do believe. EOS
Yeah mm. EOS And I do a lot for church in . EOS Yeah. EOS mm EOS And I
help out with the Sunday School as well you see- EOS Yeah. EOS Mm. EOS
with the children. The lady what’s been doing it for a- a- well her
name’s . EOS Mm. EOS She’d been doing it for a long time. She does all
the work you know and everything. EOS Yeah. EOS Yeah. EOS And I just
go in with her to help her you know. EOS mm EOS So- EOS Well- EOS
that’s what I’m going to do as well. EOS I enjoyed ch- church. Really
enjoyed it. Been all me life cos I was first introduced when I was
five. EOS Really? EOS With going to a church school. EOS Mm. EOS And
then a church school. And then I was in the best youth club of all
which was a church and then I moved away from the church w- when I got
married first time. Never went back. And I’ve been a very active
member involved in doing everything. EOS Yeah. EOS And enjoyed it. Now
I won’t mention any names or where I’m going but this vicar doesn’t
get the best out of me. EOS Oh really. EOS Mm. EOS Yeah, and it’s sad
that. EOS Yeah. EOS And he knows it. He’s a nice chap. Great with my
wife when she was poorly. EOS Yeah. EOS Mm. EOS I mean, he said to us
m- me daughter ‘any time night or day you want me call me’. EOS Mm.
EOS Well me wife died at home. Five o clock in the mor- morning. EOS I
was lucky that night that I had erm a nurse f- from who was with me.
EOS Yeah. EOS Cos I wouldn’t have known what to do on me own properly.
EOS Mm. EOS Mm. EOS So I rang me daughter up. She came and she said
‘I’m going to ring the vicar’. EOS Yeah. EOS And he was w- with us
within half an hour. EOS Really? Aw. EOS So he- he- he was good on
that side. EOS Yeah. EOS When you really needed him he was there and I
think being a church m- member has helped me a lot in life. EOS Mm.
EOS I- I’m very honest. I’m very sincere. I talk a lot. EOS I l- I
like to listen to you you know. I like to listen to you you know. EOS
I’ve got hundreds of stories that I can’t- I EOS But is it- an- nearly
up yet? EOS **inc** yeah.