Ok Arnold **anon**. I’ll kick off- we’ll kick off with you shall we?
Your best or funniest memory. When you were young. Can you remember
that far back? Again it depends really on how far back you can
remember . How young were you then? When you did- when you did change?
So your life changed soon after you’ve met me? Up to that age I erm- I
think my Christmases were very similar in that people came to us for a
Christmas lunch. But because the erm, accomodation that we had at the
time was a bit cramped all the children went into the back room and
the adults were in the main dining room cos that’s when we lived at
the laundry. We had a chinese laundry in those days. And the- the
front room was shop. It was where we did the ironing, stored the
laundry that had been EOS And the middle room was the living room
where we did everything EOS And the back room was the stove room.
There was a coal fired stove with flat irons against it. But there was
a big table in there as well. So that’s where the kids sat to have
their Christmas dinner. But it was still good fun and happy times. In
total people- oh- well there was- three six erm I- I can’t think of
it. Two sisters at the time **anon** and **anon**, myself. **anon**
wasn’t with us then. **anon** was an after thought. I think my mum
thought she was going to get a new washing machine for Christmas you
know. She got **anon** instead. Erm then there’d be my three cousins
**anon**, **anon**. You’ve met **anon** haven’t you? and there’d be my
grandad. Auntie **anon**, mum, dad, uncle **anon** and auntie **anon**
they were **anon** parents. Uncle **anon** and auntie **anon** they
were Pamela’s **anon** parents. Auntie **anon** used to come on her
own because grandad didn’t like uncle **anon**- and uncle **anon**
didn’t like Grandad . So he- had the- he had Christmas dinner with his
mother. So there was a lot of us. And erm the odd friend. People like
that used to pop in throughout the day. Erm- but one of the most
memorable things as a kid happened when I was at the laundry. Erm when
me grandmother was alive she used to make beetroot wine. And you had
to wait for it to mature- before you drank it. But I was being a
little bit eager and I opened one before it was ready and it was like
champagne and this red fizz went a- all over- freshly laudered sheets,
shirts, pillow cases. A whole days washing was absolutely ruined. And
I think I went to me bedroom, locked it, and I was there for two day .
I was scared stiff of me grandad. He really did rule the roost. Yeah.
Fearsome character but erm extremely kind as well - and hard working.
His day used to start at about six o clock in the morning and go on
till three o’clock the following morning. That was Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday. Thursday, Friday, Saturday his day started at nine and
finished about five. But the laundry was all done by then and it was
just a question of taking in new stuff and delivering your- or doleing
out the laundered stuff to the erm- the regular customers cos they
nearly all were regulars in those days. They all had their own laundry
mark which was written on the back of their laundry in small chinese
writing EOS We didn’t know the names we just knew the mark EOS Yeah
but that was all before I knew you wasn’t it Arnold **anon** the EOS
You hardly ever went did you to the laundry? Yeah we used to do some
of that didn’t we at- in my bedroom. Yeah in the attic but there was
no running water there. I don’t know how we coped really. We did
everything in my bedroom. There was a snooker table. Yeah and we did
the photography on top of the snooker table. And when we weren’t doing
the photography we were playing snooker. And somehow we managed to fit
my bed at the other end. It was too big for a normal house and I gave
it to erm a youth club- in **anon** and erm unfortunately it closed
down soon afterwards didn’t EOS And I don’t know what happened to that
table. Erm todays prices it was probably worth about five, six hundred
EOS But nobody wanted it cos nobody had room for it. Sign of the
times. **anon** taken my glasses away. I know it’s big print. Mm? It’s
alright. I can read just fine. Would you like some water? I’ll just
get some. We’ll carry on talking. Ah. Ask **anon** she’ll know. Were
there a lot of kids to play with when you were growing up? Yeah I was
the same. We had lots of kids when I was at junior school because in
those days most kids went to school near where they lived. Nobody went
to school by car. I don’t know how we managed. Thank you. You get a
waitress service as well. Can I just say when we went to junior school
all the kids lived near EOS Nobody ever went to school in a car. Not
even the teachers. They didn’t have cars did they. Oh I think maybe
the headmaster did. Yeah. Headmaster had one. Yeah. We had a g- Yeah
there were always a couple of guys at **anon** school had motorbikes
and they were always the ones that had girlfriends and erm- They’d
imaged themselves on James Dean and erm- who you might’ve heard of.
And they were always the rebels who left school with no O-levels and
EOS but lots of girlfriends. Lots of reputation behind them- which
they c- couldn’t put on theirs CVs . But at junior school lots of kids
to play with. Erm- Out- out playing everyday. Erm I don’t think our
parents had any fears about us going out and s- being out. Well it was
a word that hadn’t been invented I don’t think. Erm we had one in
Eccles who I now realise was a paedophile. Everyone knew him so you
just avoided him. He was called **anon**. and he wore a big fedora-
Yeah I’ll not tell you his surname. And he wore a big long mac and
great big boots. He was straight off a Lowry. Erm and he had a most
horrible face and sometimes you could walk down towards **anon**- and
you’d see him on the aquaduct. You could- his image was there. So y-
you now had to decide did you wait for your mate before you went over
the bridge to go to church- or did you just wait ‘til he was looking
the other way and run like EOS Well that’s how we coped with
paedophilia in those days. Just EOS Oh I- I go- I got too close to his
brother one day erm- there was a guy who was in our year at grammar
school **anon**. Do you remember **anon**? Oh he lived near **anon**
and he had a mad brother. And if people used to hang about outside
their house he’d open the window and he used to have a jerry under the
bed. A wee pot or whatever . And he used to empty it. So- over whoever
was standing outside his house. Aye that was **anon**. But we were
lucky where we lived **anon** because there were lots of EOS Erm
**anon** didn’t exist and you were soon going toward **anon** EOS and
round there there were lots and lots of fields where you could just
enjoy yourself and- go home with jam jars full of newts and tadpoles
and erm- No you could go on your bike anywhere. I mean regular bike
trips were- places like Lymm, Pickmere. And if you were really fit
Chester or Southport. Mind you I did Chester once and I was so tired
when I got there. Had my- had my sandwiches bottle of pop., and I said
‘we’d better get EOS ‘If I stay much longer I’ll fall asleep and I’ll
never get home’. Ah- it seems to take forever in a car now. It’s- so
does Southport. I’ve- I’ve never had a break. Mind you I’ve never
played rugby and you have. Yeah the only visit I had to erm casualty
as we used to call it not accident and emergency was when I fell off a
swing. Must’ve been about nine, ten and there was a little bit of
competition going on to see who could do the most daring things on the
swing. Like jump off while it was still in the air and not using your
hands and just s- sticking with it and I got to the back swing and
just fell off chin first. Yes it was that scar. So I went home. Mum
took me to **anon** casualty and the nurse s- said ‘Oh well that’s one
way to lose a bit of fat isn’t it’ EOS then she just got her scissors
out and cut the excess fat off and stitched it up. Done and dusted. No
local. Erm so that was swinging. Erm- Yeah, the only other time in
casualty, was erm three years ago when I fell. Tripped over **anon**-
**anon** the dog. I nearly lost me thumb and I had to have- they
couldn’t count the stitches. Well I couldn’t. I just got fed up of
trying to keep count. It was all round here as far as there. I was
lucky that **anon** was around and erm she wrapped a towel around it.
Put it in the air. And she drove me to hospital. And it was the first
time she’d driven EOS ‘I’ve never driven it before’. But you’ll soon
learn. nearly- nearly half term. Yes lets move on. Oh we done- touch-
touched on school and erm- what have we got there scholarsh-? Where
did you go to school. Oh here right. Well I started at **anon**
school. **anon** for short. Erm **anon** was a victorian
philanthropist who did things like building hospitals and schools. And
he built one in **anon** for the erm Church of England children who
lived in **anon**. There was already a Church of England school there
attached to the church- called **anon**- **anon** but it was the other
side of **anon**. And very few lived on that side . Most of the kids
lived on the **anon** side. And that’s probably one reason why he
sited it where he did in erm- in **anon**. Oh it’s very busy traffic
yeah. I bet it was opened and closed every hour. Went there from five
‘til- five years ‘til I was ten and then **anon** ‘til I was
seventeen. Seven years there. Was it that- Was that an all boys
school- or was it mixed? Yeah yeah we had that. Yeah w- w- we had it
like that. Well I suppose ours was a cleansing our i- initiation
ceremony. You had your head put in the toilet and the toilet flushed.
I think a lot of headmasters in those days tried to run their schools
along public school lines. And erm they must have knew- known these
intiation ceremonies were EOS and it were just ‘part of school life
old chap’. You know . Erm cos I presume you had to wear a school cap
did you? Yeah then you had to have written permission for that didn’t
you. Well I did. It was when I went out with you to the local café EOS
Had a quick pepsi and a woodbine . what kind of sauce was it? Did you
have to wear short trousers? Oh. We were erm- third year before we
could wear long trousers. Yeah well if the parents still thought
‘those shorts still fit’- I’m not buying you long trousers just bec-
Yeah waste of money. Yes it was erm- the girls wore gym slips in the
winter and dresses in EOS Which they don’t seem to do now do they. Oh
yes after y- about forth year. Yeah. Yeah I’ve- I’ve got one of those
old school photographs that’s about a yard long- or two yards long.
And you can see all the different uniform styles- according to their
ages on that. Did you have them taken in your school? Yeah the long
ones. I think we are yeah. Fifty eight, fifty nine something like that
yeah. Yeah. You’re on the back row. Were you? . Yes so we both
remember our first days at school then. I- I- my initiation was easy
because I knew some of the lads in the second year and erm they did me
a favour and erm made sure I didn’t get too much of a ducking in the
toilets . They wanted me to play football in their team as well. I
spent my life- school life being favoured and because I had a certain
amount of what most people thought was a little bit of talent at EOS
And erm it was misguided. This lad, cricket I was selected for the
school cricket team. And I was still in shorts and it was ridiculous
going out to play cricket in shorts. So my mum had to take me to the
co-op in Eccles to buy me some white long trousers to play cricket.
And I never got a bat or a bowl. I must’ve been a pretty good fielder
EOS Oh yeah yeah. We have. Yeah. Yeah I was erm junior athletics
champion. Me and **anon**, **anon**- Before you joined wasn’t it. Well
I w- I was- in the second year. Yeah I think to get- junior you had to
be under thirteen. what was the leading girl called? If the leading
man was Rex or Victor- Victor Ludorum wasn’t it- the erm the men or
the- Was it? Erm it was Victor at **anon**. No I only did Latin for
one year. Victorlia- Victoria Ludarum- Ludorum EOS I don’t know what’s
the female- what’s the female adjec- W- Ludorum would be the same. You
don’t change it like in French from petit to petite. Yeah Victoria
Ludorum . Erm could I give him a ring back if you get his number?
Please EOS Oh ab- another half an hour at least. They always say ‘are
you happy with your car?’ and I think yeah EOS Yes, music music. We
did a lot music together didn’t we. School choir- at gammar school. I
played guitar but it- it was the cello part. The teacher just put a
few- notes down that normally a cellist would play. And I had to just
plonk them out . But we erm- we played at the school concert didn’t
we. Our school dance. At the hop. Did we call them dances or did we-
we didn’t call them hops or EOS Aye. And what did you- What you sang .
Go- w- w- what songs did you play? Rock my soul in the bosom of- still
can’t play. But I think we did- did we just do that one EOS Did they
ask us back? You left of course yeah. Yeah w- we went on to bigger-
bigger and better venues after school. I- Eccles town hall was our
last appearance. **anon** was the first EOS and him and the lead
guitarist and the drummer they prefered to buy cars and motorbikes and
things instead of amplification. but we’d have- we wouldn’t have been
able- w- we had amplification of EOS We had microphones sellotaped- to
the back of our guitars. leading into reel to reel tape recorders. So
it was really not loud at all EOS Oh aye they had their own PA system.
Yeah and Urmston baths. Urmston baths is- do you remember when it was
the erm circular one? Opposite the Curzon. Yeah, well they used to
have dances there. They used to put boards over the- the pool EOS and
we played there once at Urmston and Flixton junior football league’s
presentation evening. We sounded good with the echoes and- the water
and- the roof top. And it was a complete dome at the top made out of
glass and one year I think it was s- let me see **anon** was about six
or seven. It’d have been about nineteen eighty. We had in- tremendous
hale stones. Bigger than golf balls. And they went right through the
roof of Urmston baths. And of course all the glass followed and all
the tiles were damaged EOS the council said it’s erm not economical to
repair. So they knocked EOS and it was a magnificent building. Th-
they had diving boards and erm nice café sauna. Did you ever go? Erm-
Yeah we went to **anon**- from junior school. But at grammar school
there was no swimming at all was there. Well my grandad wouldn’t allow
me to go in the scouts. He didn’t believe in it. And grandad’s word
was gospel. He said it’s like Hitler youth. He thought it was an army
for kids. But being **anon** he wanted to be very, very English and
tow the line. So Sundays we weren’t allowed to play out. We were not
forced but highly encouraged to go to church. So eventually I joined
the church choir at about the age of seven or eight. So that meant you
soon got promotion cos there weren’t many boys in the choir. I think
there were four of us. You soon got promotion to alter boy. And then
after confirmation you had to go to the early morning mass. You took
it in turns at going to eight o’clock or nine o’clock. Then you were
singing at eleven o’clock mattins. You had to go to Sunday school at
two o’clock . And then six thirty evensong. So busy day. So you didn’t
have- really have time to play out on a EOS Ah. Well the- the- the
choir was the undoing of the church in many ways. Because we got a
little bit beyond our station. We started singing very high brow stuff
like- Handel’s Messiah and- we had to have erm choral communion every
first Sunday in the month. And the congregation got a bit fed up with
it. Cause it wasn’t the sort of stuff where you could join in the
chorus EOS And the c- congregation dwindled until there were more
people in the choir than in the congregation. And the erm th- the
vicar wasn’t very dynamic and his wife was always a little bit tipsy.
She used to come in and stagger down the aisle half way- half way
through the service. Her hair all over the place . So they knocked it
down. And erm the school still remains **anon** EOS You know where I
mean? On one side on the- Yeah the little school house there. Erm
that’s up for sale. The church has gone. Yeah the church was the other
side of the school. That’s been flattened. My sister got married
there. Erm I think she was the last one ever to get married there.
Erm- Yeah so I was an usher at that wedding and I was a very poor
student EOS And I couldn’t possibly have worn me best suit cos it
didn’t look very best at all. So I went to C and A and all I could
afford was one that was five pounds fifteen shillings. It looked
really smart and it lasted for the wedding. And then about a week
later I was out in the rain with it and it’s like just falling EOS It
was. It was glued. It wasn’t stitched. So it was an expensive suit
really considering I only wore it twice- before I had to throw it
away.