One, two, three, four, five. Er not partic- not particularly cos I
lived like down one of the back streets, so I think there was about
six kids on our road and they were all different ages but we all still
played together. Erm funniest? I can’t think of a funny time EOS Erm
oh when me and **anon** and **anon** like they were my best friends
when I was really young and we were having a sleep over at mine. It’s
not gonna sound funny now EOS but erm having a sleepover at mine and I
used to have big glass doors going into the conservatory. And we
pulled the curtains across while **anon** went upstairs and closed the
doors and erm she was running away from something and ran straight
into the doors EOS and onto the floor it was very funny at the time
EOS What was yours erm funniest childhood memory then? Er two sisters.
Well we do at times like we have our moments. We love each other on
days and hate each other on other days. Just cos we share a room I
think it gets a bit intense at times. What funny things are there to
do in your community? Not funny, fun EOS You’re obsessed now with the
driving range EOS Yeah with you ! We’re going erm, to Catalonia in
Greece. What, isn’t it Catalonia? What’s it called? anyway we’re going
Catalonia, on Tuesday for a week. Erm it’s got like the blue lagoon
and stuff and nice beaches and EOS It’s ninety at the minute. Erm
trampolining at **anon**. Er we did- that’s all I ever did
trampolining and dance EOS I wasn’t boring I was just er had other
things to do. What extra curricular activities did you do? Didn’t she
used to make you go for runs? What kind of games did you play as a
kid? I love bulldog? erm, tig, but some people call it tag EOS But I
call it tig. Erm hopscotch, skipping erm British bulldog erm,
rounders, hide and seek EOS Yes I played hide and seek, all- it
doesn’t ask what you played at school. Erm what was the one where you
had to get back to a place? Like you were on two teams and one team
had to catch you before you got back to-. Manhunt. And that’s around
it really. On the first day of grammar I was like on the verge of
having a panic attack, I was so nervous! I was feeling really sick and
like cos I’d like never been with boys EOS I hadn’t been with boys for
like five years cos I went to an all girl’s school. Erm so it was just
like really weird to go into a different environment of like a mixed
school. So I was nervous. Oh and **anon** fainted EOS in assembly and
I had to hold her up against the wall. Erm, I don’t know it was the
very first day of assembly and like we all line up around the walls.
Erm she just fainted in the middle of it. And I was having to hold her
up cos I didn’t know what to do, it was awful. I think I cried a bit.
cos she was my only friend and she’d fainted, it was awful. Well, from
where I live it’s quite rough at the end of my road. But on my street
itself it’s quite peaceful and nice. Erm friendly, everyone says hello
to each other like, known them all our lives really. Erm but at the
other end of the road-. It’s a bit different . No it’s scary at the
other end of the road. Like when you walk past, like they don’t look
at you, they don’t like give you that little smile that other
strangers might do, it’s weird. I used to go camping, yeah and we used
to travel France. Erm camp- going Eurocamp with the family. But never
really did caravanning. Didn’t you? Are you joking? Did the fire
brigade come? oh, no necessarily, it could have been a small one. Did
you move house at all when you were younger? What memories do you have
of this? Er yeah we moved from twenty two to fourteen, just down the
road, erm, cos the new hou- for like- tw- like from twenty two and
onwards they’d already been built, and the house we moved into was erm
had been like a new build. Erm so my mum was pregnant so we had to
move into a bigger house. Erm I loved the old house I remember- I just
remember having like erm a little tea set with erm little red love
hearts on, erm and I remember had- shut up EOS We had erm- in the old
house we had like, what’s it called? Cement, and we just moved in at
the very start. And the cats walked through it so we wrote EOS
**anon** and **anon** in the cement and we had like a special
personalised gate, which had **anon** on the top cos that was my dad’s
football team and erm the cat’s name, but I only just got that back
like this year from my dad cos we left it there when we moved house.
It was really good. we have some erm- what are they called, car boot
sales that we used to have in like a little town hall. That was good
that brought the community together. Er I don’t really understand the
question I don’t think. We have the May fair. And you get the May fair
queen and my little sister was the queen one year. And you have to
wear- and there’s like floats and stuff, that go EOS What about you?
steam train- Steam trains EOS I don’t know what you’re talking about
EOS I don’t think that answers the question but okay. Yeah I do. . Oh,
we’re made to do it you have to do like the mopping the sweeping, the-
helping out with the cooking, which I don’t mind cos I like that. Then
we have to do the pots every night and make our own beds, Mum doesn’t
do our room any more, unlike some. my mum loves me erm, but like we
all get spends for doing different chores. so it was good EOS How
about you do you do chores around the house? where are your parents
from? Er I think my dad’s from **anon**, I don’t- I’ve never known him
to live anywhere else. Erm and I think my da- mum’s from **anon**, ish
EOS I’m not **anon** I’m like, heritage wise like my Grandma- well my
Nanna EOS my granddad was **anon**, my other grandma was **anon**. My
granddad was- well is-. He’s- well no he’s half Scottish or Irish,
think it’s Scottish, which is the one that wears kilts. he’s Scottish
then, no cos we have our own erm, No but we have our own what’s-it-
called, what’s the material the kilt’s made out of? You know that
pattern? Tartan we have our own **anon** tartan. no, it’s not EOS Er
yeah I’ve got a dog called **anon**, full name **anon**. No we’ve got
**anon** and the rabbit, **anon**. You don’t have any pets do you?
What’s that got to do with anything? what’s that got to do with pets?
Oh my god . She used to get so bullied for it. But not now she just
hates it, and then mine’s **anon** and **anon** is **anon**. So
they’re not weird. Wouldn’t your dad’s name have been the same? And
your mum’s name be EOS that’s not what you said EOS What was your
school like? Did you enjoy school? I- I loved **anon** it was amazing.
Erm I think it’s changed quite a lot now. But at the time it was just
really good, it had really nice people there, everyone was really
friendly. it like- the people there like were of all different types.
Like some were a lot rougher than others but when- like I didn’t
really notice it at such a young age, like I was friends with anyone
and everyone. And I still would be but I didn’t really notice it, but
now when you walk past you can see the difference between EOS some of
the kids and it is quite rough. **anon**, what’s the question? It was
good. there was quite a lot of bullying but like you kind of just got
on with it, like EOS like, no matter where you go there’s always gonna
be people who bully. But at the same time like you meet loads of good
people there, and so long as you get in the right friendship group,
then it was EOS I went through about four, but EOS what is your best
or funniest memory from when you were EOS No what is your best memory?
Not your funniest. Erm best memory was probably like when we used to
go camping in France, and erm, it was just like the whole experience.
Like when we were driving down, me and my dad u- well we all used to
listen to like th- all the old school music and I used to sit in the
front with my dad, to try and keep him- like to help him stay awake,
and there was a time whenI don’t know cos I was asleep but I’d- I’d
fallen asleep EOS and songs were still playing but I was still singing
with my dad, even though I was asleep. And like we used to go canoeing
a lot. And then erm it was like, you were going down in your canoe.
And there was a castle on one side, and you just think you’re going
straight, and the next minute you realise the castle’s gone on the
other side and it just used to feel like, proper magical. It was so
good. But the only thing was, every time we used to go, we used to
fight, with my sisters, like proper- get into proper screaming
matches, like in this canoe EOS literally we used to have so many
water fights, and not the EOS no, but no you know like just like
playful splash, but this was like, strangle splash EOS But like it
kind of just made it, like when we went a couple of years ago, like I
couldn’t wait to go canoeing again, just to see if it- if it was the
same, it was really good. No. We did nearly er- not drown, but get
into quite a bit of danger once, cos me and **anon** had been erm dec-
we were in a canoe by EOS so we decided to get out, cos it was hot,
and just hold on to the canoe. But somehow we managed to lose the
canoe. So we were just floating in this river going downstream. And
like, there was rapids coming up. And then my dad had to like, swim
over and like drag us to the side, and then we had to catch up with
the other canoe, like later on in the stream. It was pretty dramatic,
but-. I’d never do that. Isn’t that where you go in like, little
holes? No, no I couldn’t do that, claustrophobic. Did you ever get
her- hurt- did you ever get hurt whilst playing when you were a kid?
Did you? Didn’t know that. didn’t know that EOS What do you have to do
if you break your collar bone, do you get like- Yes. My house was the
house to be- to be at, it was so good like, we always used to have
like- like one night a week me **anon** and **anon** used to go for
each- each other’s house for tea. And then erm we always used to have
Halloween parties. Which used to like- I think I’d still be scared now
EOS like we- we had like the catflap that goes out to the outside of
the house and my dad stuck his hand out like with the glove on and my
dad just like when people were coming round, ‘I’ve lost my glove, if
you notice it, like let me know. And like just bring it in to the
house.’ And then we put erm, nuts or something down the side of the
house, and it was all dark and we were walking down, and my mum was
like, ‘oh these are the cockroaches, don’t worry about them.’ EOS And
like, now it doesn’t sound scary but like it was and then erm someone
went to go grab the glove. And my dad grabbed her hand and literally I
think it was **anon**, It was so awful . And then we had like a hole
in the table and my dad’s head was un- like up through the hole but he
had like a something covering it, so when you went to get your piece
of cake or whatever was meant to be under there, and me Dad’d be like,
‘blar- with a mask on or something, it was really good. So erm- we
always used to have like birthday parties and have magicians and stuff
over, it was good EOS And the party bags afterwards, they were
amazing. You used to always get like little whistles and EOS The
little ball things. Was that, was it alphabet zoo? The one that used
to have the big blue slide. That was like nearly- well felt vertical I
don’t know if it was. Oh it was amazing and there was erm-. It was so
good and you used to have those big like- what are those like
cylinders and you had to squeeze through the two of them? And then
they used to have one where you used to have to go through like four
but kids used to get stuck in there, so they had to close it down,
like that area. Because like ch- yeah kids were getting stuck in
there. I was always so scared to go through them. that’s so funny EOS
Yeah so when you finished the party and went down the slide. I loved
it. it was amazing and you went to the ball pool at the bottom. and do
you remember the massive ball pool and you could like hide EOS It was
so good. Yeah EOS Oh that’s a risk you’ve got to take when you’re
playing hide and EOS We should go. Yeah like Barbies, like, Oh well
maybe not you, but maybe like Ken or something or action man. But like
literally you’d play for hours. And what do you do with just EOS erm
describe your least favourite teacher. What did he teach? Erm I’ve
always got on with all my teachers, I was a goody two shoes but I
remember in erm **anon** not **anon** erm **anon** there was this
really like chubby lady teacher that er had really dark, curly hair.
And erm she was always screaming at all the kids. And you’d hear her
like three rooms down. So you were always EOS you were always really
scared, like to speak to her. And one day I had to go and like tell
her something, I was like sent from class to go tell her. And I was
like stood behind her waiting for her to finish talking, but she
started walking backwards and she fell on top of me. And I was
literally like tiny EOS when I was little and I was just laid
underneath her and this massive woman was like on top of me. But she
couldn’t get up EOS And people had to help her up and I just thought
like, ‘I could never live this down,’ EOS I wouldn’t ever speak to her
again she was so scary. Can you imagine it though, like this massive
woman like tipping over on top of EOS Er yeah we always used to. Erm I
don’t remember what I brought, I used to love it though. You were only
ever allowed that, weren’t you? You’ve not had anything else, pet
wise? I loved sports day. How do you remember? Well it could’ve been
pigeon or something EOS No it’s like lots of different types of birds,
it’s kind of good to EOS Did you ever used to have that erm- like the
two different buckets, one was filled with water and one wasn’t and
you used to have like containers with holes in EOS and you had to like
fill it up and run really quick, and fill it up cos it was like
leaking, and it was your team that erm- sorry and your team had to get
like the most water in the bucket, like the quickest EOS Did you ever
get into trouble for something at school? Were you ever blamed- were
you ever blamed for something that wasn’t your fault? proper goody two
shows EOS How old were you? Oh that’s awful. that’s so funny EOS Er no
cos like I said I was always a goody two shoes so when- Even at
secondary school. Ev- everyone got like- you know like you used to get
class detentions, for everybody speaking? They always used to like
pull me up at the end and say, ‘don’t bother coming back for the
detention at the end of the day.’ I was like, ‘yes!’ EOS ‘why isn’t
Veronica **anon** here?’ and I was like, ‘well, I’m good’ EOS and then
er at primary school, whenever anyone used to get in trouble and like
need an alibi, erm, they always used to come to me and say, ‘tell them
that I didn’t do this,’ EOS ‘tell them I was somewhere else.’ And I
would be like- cos I was always cool with the boys EOS and erm, there
was this guy called **anon** and like you know like at primary school
you weren’t allowed to swear or anything? And erm he called a dinner
lady something like a rude word EOS and- or like threw rocks at her or
something like that EOS And erm he came up to me and he was like,
‘Veronica **anon** I’m going to get expelled you have to like, lie for
me.’ And I was like, ‘oh no but you’re a boy so okay.’ EOS And I was
like, ‘no he was here with me we were reading.’ And then like, they
completely believed me and then the teacher- well the dinner lady got
in trouble. she did for ma- for making like allegations, but she was a
horrible dinner lady anyway. That was like the worst thing I ever did.
I loved drawing. erm, can you remember a good story that your parents
slash grandparents used to tell you? That sticks, yeah. Not really
interesting or good, it’s just-. That was what I was gonna say EOS
well, my n- like when they were in the war like my grandma and
granddad like, they were ov- over in Germany. And er my nanna actually
did get shot and erm- a bomb exploded and the shrapnel like went all
in her skin and stuff. But she was okay, survived, rah, rah, rah, but
my granddad had a massive hole in his neck and he told us all that
erm, he’d been shot in the neck in the EOS Erm told my mum, mum
believed it for fifteen, twenty odd years. However long it was and we
believed it up un- like, up until a couple of years ago. And he it
just came out one day, saying like he didn’t really get shot and had
an operation. I was like, ‘how can you tell us our entire lives that
you’d got shot and made us think like you’re some hero,’ EOS and he
just wasn’t. He just had like some an removed or something for
whatever reason it EOS No but you should’ve- you’ve seen the hole.
Like- it’s like a good thumb like in to his neck. It’s weird. I- I-
When you think about it now, but like you wouldn’t really doubt it if
you’d been told-. Er I don’t know, maybe. You’re such a baby. Oh I
love those. Especially when they say, ‘you’re approaching the landing
Please take care!’ EOS When we were little we’ve been to- used to
travel France like I said, and er we’ve been to lots of different
places in Greece, erm America a couple of times, erm trying to think.
It’s amazing the food’s amazing, really EOS pretty much! Like at
breakfast you’d have like the proper American pancakes, scrambled
eggs, bit of crispy bacon, syrup, and like you think , ‘how disgusting
does that sound?’ It’s not. They must put something in there just to
make you think it’s nice EOS but it’s really nice and the burgers.
Like when me and mum used to go when we- when I was younger, to visit
her brother, erm we just used to have to share a meal because EOS I
couldn’t physically eat one and it was a waste of money and mum would
never eat it all so we always used to have to share, but erm EOS We
used to go to this place called er the Crab Bucket, or something, and
you used to just get like a massive bucket of unlimited crab EOS And
that was amazing. It was really nice. No it was really good, what
about you? Fifteen hours in. Could not have a hot summer holiday like
that though. Yeah but th- wasn’t that your main holiday? I’m sure it
was EOS I love it. That’s cos of your mum. Yeah, I was really tempted
to go in but I didn’t get enough EOS Like a shark or something. I
don’t like being out of my depths in the sea. And like if you go to
like Greece or somewhere, like the- the sea’s proper crystal clear,
and you can see everything. So it’s no too bad, ni- only nice ones. I
don’t think I’d ever go in seas here, like they must be so cold. No,
but like everyone used to pee in the pool when they were a kid and
stuff and like-. Yes you did EOS I don’t mean like ten year old kid, I
mean like smaller. right, erm- go on, I was gonna ask a question. Are
y- are you not an animal lover then? No er it’s completely different
like, in my family. Like- like, my mum was always scared but my dad
was always erm encouraging me. Like to go on rollercoasters and EOS
like proper like, ‘seek the thrill’ EOS Which I still do now. Yeah.
Like I dragged you ‘go ape’ the other- like EOS couple of months ago
didn’t I? Was it that scary then? You’re not a big fan of anything.
You’re like, attached. Yeah, I love those things. It’s funny like,
watching all the like the really girly girls go around and like
getting stuck. And you just think- I’m always like, ‘just hurry up!’
EOS I get really restless. Aww. The man or the ten year old? R It was
kind of like, ‘see dad? I’m not a girl.’ EOS Aww I couldn’t do that,
I’d rather just finish than have the shame of s- of another full grown
man carrying-. Exactly cos you’re keeping everyone else like up, cos
you can’t like cross people’s paths when you’re up there. I’d be so
annoyed. I’d be like, ‘hurry up!’