count to five EOS okay, whenever you’re ready EOS is that your
brother? did they like your boyfriend? was **anon** there? try one of
them I always think I don’t like they’re- they’re alright EOS you’re
really hot though EOS ‘keep it on’ EOS but why would you have to wear
white socks? Michael Jackson style EOS how was it? did you go with
friends? oh, very nice EOS so you’re not going clubbing? I don’t want
to EOS it will be nice EOS ahh, you’re gonna be lonely EOS turn the
light on, it’s getting dark EOS what was it one of the inside ones? a
group effort, yeah EOS did you go to the pub to watch it? oh no,
headache today EOS was that duty free? yeah, it’s further than you
think as well, isn’t it EOS the trailers look good don’t they EOS oh
yeah, I’ve seen that EOS yeah, we went to Thorpe Park on Friday and it
just reminded me of EOS yeah, you should EOS is it expensive? they do
or don’t EOS what do you not like? how do you feel? are you nervous?
it’s be- no, it’s not EOS what’s that for, your loan? it comes in just
before freshers EOS yeah, cos they count freshers as the start of term
EOS so you’ll have it, so EOS no, you’ll have fun, freshers is good
EOS have you got it back? is it your Blackberry? where did you go with
them? I’m sure she would EOS **anon** goes quite a lot to the casino
EOS why so much? how much is yours? are they from nights out? what,
from insects? have you seen her? Recently EOS do you get on with your
boyfriend’s parents? oh, that’s good EOS have you got water?