 There is a large amount of background noise throughout the recording
– this does not generally affect the audibility but is present
throughout EOS no, no, you’re right EOS it’s a good job I checked that
EOS yeah EOS oki doki, so can you just- just talk for a couple of
seconds normally just so I can EOS yeah EOS just hear- EOS my name is
Harriet Rickman **anon** EOS and I am absolutely fantastic EOS great
what about you? EOS Harriet **anon** speaks for the rest of the family
with EOS right, that’s fine I think EOS yeah EOS erm, take it away EOS
right, so what I was saying before is, years ago, when kids where in
the street if they were cheeky or anything like that EOS mm EOS you
give them a clip round the ear EOS and if they went running in saying
to their Mum, ‘Mum, Mum, Mrs such- and-such-a-body’, or, ‘Aunty
Doree’s just hit me’ her answer would be, ‘well, you must’ve deserved
it’ EOS yeah EOS and it was right, whereas now, a kid in the street,
the other week it was, erm, he stood right in front of me and he
wouldn’t let me pass EOS so, I got his arms like that and I moved him
to one side EOS yeah EOS and- EOS where was this, in yours? EOS it-
yeah, on- on **anon** EOS right EOS and he goes, ‘you’re not allowed
to touch me, I’m going to get the police’, so that’s what you get now
EOS yeah EOS whereas years ago, cos you knew you was gonna get a clip
round the ear EOS you didn’t do it EOS you didn’t do it EOS or you
chose who you did it to EOS yeah, now- EOS yeah EOS it- it’s a
different story, and like I say, you were always in your own street
EOS yeah EOS all- a lot of the doors were open, kids were playing, I
remember **anon** EOS mm EOS you know, the door was open, he was in
and out, and all the kids were in the street EOS yeah EOS you never
sorta moved out your area EOS no EOS whereas now, they do move out the
area, they do wander all over the place, and they’re in gangs EOS you
see th- I think the thing is though aswell like I- the- culturally,
we’ve changed so much, like, in them days EOS forty, fifty years ago,
you stayed with- from- from where you was born you went to school, you
got married, and you moved into the same area EOS yeah EOS near your
Mam EOS yeah EOS and that’s- that’s what happened, whereas nowadays,
you know, we- w- we finished school, and, you know, I come from
Salford, but I might get a job, say, in Warrington, or Cheshire, or
well, anywhere, because we’re a lot more mobile, we’ve got cars,
trains, and I- y- which you didn’t have in them days EOS yeah, so
you’d move out your area and a lotta p- like you say, a lotta people
are moving so the community is gone EOS yeah EOS people don’t know
everybody like they used to EOS no EOS do you know EOS yeah EOS the-
the know them there, them there, you know, and now, that’s gone, some
people don’t even see their neighbours, EOS yeah, a- or acknowledge
them EOS for days EOS yeah, EOS on end EOS I’ve got a lad near- EOS do
you know EOS I- you know, it’s very rare I mean I’ll- I’ll let onto
them neighbours there, but they never speak to anybody EOS no EOS erm,
and- but EOS what I’m thinking is, if you move away, so, say you move
to Warrington from- from Manchester when you’re bringing your own
children up, you don’t know your neighbours, so you wouldn’t allow
your children to play in the street would you EOS t- sp- no, no, th-
that’s another thing, a lotta kids now, at one s- that’s- I mean
**anon** said to me the other day, EOS yeah EOS ‘put the baby at the
door’, he says, ‘I took him for a- took him for a walk’ EOS yeah EOS
‘and I parked him outside the door’, he says, ‘now how often do you
see a child parked outside the door getting some fresh-’ you never,
but at one time babies were- you had a baby and, ‘ooh, look, they’ve
had a new baby’ cos it’d be outside the front door EOS yeah EOS in a
morning, washed, fed, time for a nap, in the pram and outside in the
air, you never see that now EOS no EOS they never put a baby at the
front door, cos you’re too scared someone’s gonna come along EOS yeah
EOS and snatch it EOS yeah, yeah, it’s horrible that really isn’t it
EOS it, yeah EOS cause that’s I mean- EOS yeah EOS that- EOS I think
that’s one- the one where you do get talking to people, is, because,
you know, y- you’ll be talking about, ‘ooh, is that you’re dog’, or
‘is that- ohh, is- is that your little’n’ and that’s how you get
communities building up, so it- it- it’s hard now isn’t it, I mean if
you’re working full time, EOS yep EOS so the kids are being dropped
off at a childminder’s, when do you get time to mix EOS that’s it, but
that’s another thing you see, I’d say ninety percent of the mothers
work now EOS yeah, yeah EOS whereas they didn’t then EOS yeah EOS
nobody worked then so, mothers were at home all day EOS mm EOS they
could socialise with the neighbours, and get to know the neighbours,
whereas now, you’re up in the morning, children at babyminders, out at
work, pick the kids up after work, back home, doing the tea, you’re
too knackered to do anything else, EOS no EOS to go socialising, most
of the time it’s- it’s EOS mm EOS weekends, and then it’s people you
already know EOS yeah, yeah EOS so you don’t get- y- you lose- you
losing a lot of the community, not just EOS well, like I say, women
having to go out to work EOS mm EOS because they can’t afford to
survive on the one wage EOS yeah EOS but that’s as well, because we’ve
got very materialistic, cos at one time EOS mm EOS if you didn’t have
a telly, you didn’t have a telly EOS yeah EOS it didn’t matter EOS
yeah EOS but now everybody wants, ‘ooh, the Joneses have got this, so’
EOS mm EOS ‘we want one’ EOS mm EOS so, to get these things you’ve
and- and in getting them things I think you’re sacrificing the
community part of it EOS yeah EOS you know, there’s that little
network is dwindling, but everyone’s becoming more materialistic,
they’ve got the video, they’ve got the computer, the children have got
all the best trainers, and this, that and the other EOS two cars on
the drive, yeah EOS yeah, so EOS mm EOS you’re g- you’re gaining
material things- EOS in one way, yeah EOS here, EOS yeah EOS but
you’re losing some of the values in the home, and the social EOS yeah
EOS think, on that side EOS I absolutely agree with you w- on that,
and I think from my perspective, you know, when m- me Mum left school,
her views on life, were, you know, get married to a lovely fella, have
children, build- build a home EOS yeah EOS you know, she- she went to,
erm, to college to do secretarial, erm, work as a stop gap, until what
she wanted was to get married, and have children- EOS wanted to get
married, but- EOS when I was leaving school, the last thing on earth I
wanted to do was get married and have children, EOS children EOS to me
that was a put down EOS yeah EOS my- from my perspective, it was, no,
get out in the workforce, you’re getting the best job you can, you’re
earning your own money, you know, your own wheels, independent EOS
‘dent EOS so I mean, in- in that short space of time and- EOS of time
EOS time and you’re only talking, well me Mum was twenty-one when she
had me and **anon** so it’s only, pff, eighteen, twenty years EOS
years, yeah EOS for a complete turn around EOS turn around, yeah EOS
but now I think women are realising EOS in- in, you know, in this day
in age, that we’ve lost out somewhere, you know, we’ve made a rod for
our own back, not only are we, you know, bringing up families, running
a household, you know, keeping a relationship together, hopefully, if
you do, but we’re also working full time EOS I know, it’s funny
because did you see it on the telly, that they said, although women
have got more rights, erm, more independence than this, that and the
other they are less happy, th- erm, ninety percent of them are less
happy than they were fifty years ago EOS yeah, yeah, EOS you know, th-
they- EOS I can really believe that EOS really not content at all EOS
mm EOS they said and I- I- I think it was Loose Women I was watching
and th- they were saying EOS oh yeah EOS I love them, and they were
saying it’s because, this professor says it’s because, women have too
high expectations of love EOS and romance and what they expect EOS
right, right EOS and one of them said, it’s not that they have too
high a expectations, it’s that they won’t settle for anything less EOS
right EOS whereas at one time, if you got married, you stayed because
of the children EOS right EOS and you put up with abuse, and you put
up with drinking, and you put up with all sorts, because EOS yeah,
yeah EOS that was the norm, it was a big shame at one time to get
divorced, EOS mm EOS or leave EOS yeah EOS the- the- you know,
separate EOS yeah, EOS whereas now- EOS cause I think it was always
the woman who was to blame, no matter what went on EOS on, yeah, yeah
EOS you know, socially, it was always the woman who was to blame you
know, she couldn’t keep her marriage together, she couldn’t do this
EOS yeah EOS she’s the one with the problem, whereas th- I mean that
must’ve been the shame that people had to carry if they decided to
leave a relationship then EOS yeah, I- I couldn’t imagine EOS mm EOS
having to stay in a relationship that I wasn’t happy in, no way EOS
no, no EOS I just couldn’t, I d- I- I wonder how these women coped EOS
I think EOS do you know, I’ve thought about this, and I honest-
honestly think that because women didn’t have a choice in them days,
erm, and perhaps I’m- might be talking a hundred years ago when
divorce wasn’t on the cards, erm, but you know, I know people from
other cultures from- from cultures which are very similar, erm, Ni-
Nigerian culture, if they- they’re not happy in a marriage, they
haven’t got a choice, they have to stay at it, and I think if you
think about it, that makes you work harder at it, if you haven’t got a
choice, if you’re stuck with this bugger for the next seventy years,
you aint gotta choice, you’ll work at making the relationship work for
you because you don’t have a choice, and perhaps now we’re- we’re
just, perhaps we’re thinking, ‘oh no, forget that, farts in bed,
that’s it, gone, next one’ EOS it’s too easy for us, yeah, too easy
for us to change, I suppose there’s certain things in that that you
could say, yeah EOS but there’s the extremes where you get EOS mm EOS
really horrible men that EOS right EOS are abusive and stuff EOS yeah
EOS women died because they couldn’t leave they’d, EOS yeah, yeah EOS
you know, g- get beat up and summet could happen whereas, mind you,
even now today you will see that a battered wife ninety percent of
them stay with the husband EOS yeah EOS they don’t always report it,
they cover it up, they, you know EOS mm EOS because they say it’s a
syndrome don’t they, EOS yeah EOS once you get in that situation, it’s
very, very hard EOS mm, yeah EOS to get out EOS and I- I think- I
think that- that’s t- very true, that is- that is very true, but- and
I think that’s- the- a battered wife syndrome is different from an
unhappy marriage, or- or a marriage that isn’t- EOS yeah EOS or, a
relationship that isn’t as fulfilling as you would want it to be EOS
yeah, it’s not got the spark- what- what you perceive as love and the
excitement and the butterflies in your stomach EOS I don’t care who
gets that EOS yeah, yeah EOS after twelve month that goes doesn’t it
EOS course it does EOS and it does end up the norm, EOS yeah EOS you
know, just EOS yeah EOS like a routine, ‘morning, love, right, off to
work, see you later, what do you want for tea’ EOS but in some ways I
think that’s really nice and that’s, you know, that’s one of the
things I miss about being in a long term relationship, perhaps the
mundane-cy of it, but, there’s somebody there who says, EOS yeah EOS
‘do you want a brew love’, or, EOS I’d- I- I know what you mean, and I
agree with you, that’s nice, but that’s where EOS the rot sets in EOS
a problem can start, because when you’re both going out to work,
you’re both meeting new people, and then someone pays you attention,
and there’s a bit of excitement there, that’s when EOS mm, mm EOS that
hum drum life all of a sudden becomes, ‘I don’t know if I can put up
with that’, you know, EOS yeah EOS do you know what I mean because EOS
mm EOS there’s a bit of excitement over there and I think, even in a-
a marriage where it’s hum-drum like that EOS you still need a bit of
excitement in some way or another EOS yeah EOS to keep it going EOS
but, don’t you think nowadays, you know, w- we’re a little bit more
educated about, erm, relationships, and about keeping relationships
going, you know, as much as you know, I would- I would stand up to any
young girl and say, ‘you do not put up with that in a relationship’, I
would- I would stand up to them and say, ‘if you want a relationship
to stay together, you need to still go out together, you still need to
have a laugh together if y- you know, and put them into your marriage,
or else, you know, that’s the way marriages go, they fail’ EOS but at
the end of the day it’s still how can you always fit it in, because,
when you’re both working y- you know what I mean, when you buy- I
think if you get married and you buy a property EOS yeah EOS ninety
percent of your time goes towards your home, working for your home,
EOS and that is sometimes, is that- like I say, we’re getting too
materialistic in a lot of things EOS yeah EOS so, instead of, like you
say, keeping the excitement and everything in your marriage EOS mm EOS
things tend to go materialistic, ‘oh, we want this for the home and
ooh, have you seen that over, ooh yeah, we’ll get one of them big
massive screen tellys and’ EOS yeah EOS and so all your time is
getting the money together for all these little things EOS yeah EOS
and then that that takes away from your personal relationship EOS
don’t- don’t you think EOS it’s about a collection of things round you
EOS don’t you think it’s more a case of you know, ‘I can’t leave this
set up because I’ve got- I’ve still got payments left on me car’ EOS
‘or I’ve still-’ do you know what- I know it sounds sad EOS yeah EOS
and it really does sound sad, but, I- I- I’ve gotta hand- hold me hand
up, I’ve done that in the past, you know, thinking, ‘oh I can’t- can’t
leave him this week, you know, I’ve still got payments left on me car’
and EOS payments left on me car, oh my God, I suppose EOS but I think
it’s not all negative because I look at me stepson’s relationship and
I think men are much more hands on with regard to children these days-
EOS ah yeah that is something that has- that’s changed EOS cause they
really lost out, men lost out didn’t they in the past EOS I don’t
think they lost out, I don’t think they wanted to be bothered, to be
truthful with you EOS yeah EOS cause it was- I still remember Granddad
**anon**, he used to go to work, come home and sit in the corner with
his paper and he didn’t like a lot of mither off EOS oh God no EOS
kids, do you know, it was- that was his routine EOS yeah, it was,
‘shh, don’t go in there, me Granddad’s in there’ EOS yeah EOS yeah EOS
and it’s like whatsits Dad, his a- his attitude was, ‘I go out to work
it’s my house I pay the bills and I’ll watch what I want on telly’ I
mean, I’ve seen him come in switch- she’s been sat there EOS telly
goes over she goes to- EOS you’re joking EOS no, I’m not joking, like,
that is the God’s honest truth EOS switches the telly over? EOS yeah
EOS he’d been out in the pub, he’s come in EOS yeah EOS she’s in the
middle of a film, EOS and he just- EOS he just turned it- I was sat
with her and I c- turned it over, and she went, ‘I was watching that’,
‘I pay the bills in this house, I’m the one that goes out to work,
I’ll watch what I want’ I was fuming EOS there was steam coming out me
ears EOS I come, ‘I’ve got to go now’ EOS and I just walked out and
I’m like this EOS oh no EOS it was- it was horrendous EOS no EOS and
it was so funny cos they came to our house and erm, **anon** asked,
‘erm, do you want a brew’ this that, ‘erm, yeah, yeah, go on, I’ll
have a can, yeah, yeah, yeah’ and he goes erm, ‘ooh erm, such-and-
such-a-body’s on’ and he turned the telly over, and he goes, ‘ooh,
it’s good this, it’s good match this’ and I just got the remote, I
come ‘I pay the bills in here, we don’t watch sport in this house’ EOS
and he walked, I thought there’s no way you can do that in your home,
you’re not doing it in mine EOS ahh EOS do you know what I mean, and
they went they left- EOS do you know, honestly EOS but- but EOS and
you probably caused a big bloody argument through that EOS argument,
but that’s what I’m saying, that was the way then EOS yeah EOS the
women stayed at home, they cleaned the house, they looked after the
children, the men went to work, had a pint, come home, tea on the
table, EOS yeah mm EOS and they didn’t want no mither EOS no EOS do
you know, mm, and that was the routine EOS mm EOS and it was more the
women that had the social circle like I say, all the neighbours EOS
yeah EOS and everything, the men it was, down the pub EOS yeah, I
remember when we was kids, we had loads of Auntys EOS yeah EOS who
weren’t our Auntys EOS Auntys, no, no, EOS but- EOS but it was always
EOS yeah EOS Aunty **anon**, cos you didn’t go, Mrs **anon** or Mrs
**anon** EOS no EOS it was Aunty **anon**, Aunty **anon**, Aunty
**anon**, you know EOS yeah EOS they were all Aunties EOS yeah EOS mm
EOS and like I say EOS you did summet wrong, they didn’t go running
telling your Mum, you got a clip round the ear EOS mm EOS and if you
went and told your Mum, you’d get another one EOS got another one EOS
yeah, and it was ‘well, you must’ve deserved it’ EOS yeah EOS cause I
can still remember that EOS yeah EOS cause they don’t- they’re not
gonna crack you for nothing EOS no EOS and it wasn’t a whack, it was
just, like you say, a clip round the ear, ‘eh, you little bugger, what
do you think you’re doing’ EOS yeah, yeah EOS but you can’t- EOS there
was nothing abusive in it EOS no EOS it was just a case of, you know,
‘when your Mam’s not here, I’m your Mam’ EOS yeah EOS ‘you do what
you’re told’ EOS told, yeah now you can’t e- there’s no way you can do
any of that, and I tell you what an- irritates me with the grandkids,
the eldest in particular these mobile phones, EOS yeah EOS you can’t
have a decent conversation with them because it’s, ‘erm, yeah oh alri-
alright Nanna, erm, what was that, what, erm, oh alright, yeah, yeah’
EOS texting EOS and they’re like this EOS while- while they’re on EOS
so that you know they’re not listening to you EOS they’re too busy on-
EOS kids eh EOS yeah EOS on- on- on the phone- on the phone texting
EOS yeah, fingers going EOS and when they- when they’ve text me,
right, have you ever got one of these texts, and I’m going, ‘what the
what’ and I put two pairs of glasses on and I still don’t understand
it and it’s all text writing EOS code code, yeah EOS all text writing,
and I wonder, you know like y- y- everything evolves, you know like
erm, years and years and years ago they used to speak all drawn out
and everything EOS yeah EOS and like you say, we’ve shortened it, do
you think we’ll end up writing like they text now in years to come EOS
we may well do, we may well do EOS do you know another- another change
EOS yeah and- well, I mean things evolve don’t they EOS yeah because
I’ve- I said to someone, no so long ago, I says EOS the way they used
to talk, ‘thou shalt do’ you know EOS yeah EOS years ago, the ways
they used to write and do that EOS yeah EOS I says, and then it all
got changed to more a less speaking- writing how you speak, EOS yeah
EOS and now, is it gonna be, you’re writing how you text EOS well it
is, it is, I mean y- w- EOS do you know, and so that could be another
EOS when y- you email people now, you shorten everything EOS yeah EOS
I mean I’ve learned a few of them, like, I mean, L-O-L is ‘laugh out
loud’ EOS is it? I thought it was ‘lots of love’ EOS ha, ha, ha, no,
‘mwah’ is a kiss M-W-A-H, mwah like that EOS right EOS but the best
one that I’ve learnt that use quite a lot actually, is P- M-L, in
capitals, EOS what’s that? EOS pissed meself laughing EOS ooh but
that’s it, I j- I thought L-O-L was ‘lots of love’ because a lot of
people do that at the end of a text, ‘right, going now, bye, L-O-L’,
so I thought it was ‘lots of love’, erm, and I- if- I’ve started doing
little bits like, EOS if I’m texting **anon**, erm, ‘are you on your
way’ and I’ll put, just an ‘R’, then a ‘U’ EOS yeah EOS do you know
like, EOS yeah EOS that- little things like that, but I don’t know all
the others that they do EOS no, well we’ll have to learn because I
mean- it- EOS but that’s what I’m saying EOS it’s so- so much quicker,
when you’re- you know, you’re emailing somebody EOS yeah, yeah, but
that’s what I’m saying, I think this EOS right EOS is gonna change the
whole thing again EOS yeah EOS because it’s all computers, it’s all
erm, mobile phones and texting EOS yeah EOS so I do think in the next
ten years, it’s all gonna change again and, people are gonna be
writing like- it’s like a shorthand isn’t it, really, EOS yeah EOS
instead of- cos I know our **anon** says, ‘it takes you bleeding ages
to text me back’ EOS because I do the whole thing, you know EOS ‘and’
and ‘the’ and everything is wrote, you know, EOS yeah EOS properly,
and she’s there going, ‘for God’s sake’, I says, EOS ‘yeah, but I’m
not used to texting’, I’m not used to typing, so it takes me ten
minutes EOS yeah EOS to find the letter and the key that I want EOS mm
EOS do you know what I mean, I’m getting a bit quicker now but at
first I’d g- I’d get bored before I got to the end of what I was
trying to say EOS do you know EOS well I was on- on the laptop, erm,
last week it was, erm and I’m typing away, and next thing I get
‘beep’, I thought, ‘who is- who’s this?’ this bloke, erm, is- is
talking to m- talking to me, so I’m texting him back, no, talking to
him back, then next thing, you know, you get your camera comes up, so
he get the web- webcam come up, cos my name’s Son **anon** he thought
he was talking to a fella EOS oh right EOS this twenty year old bloke
in erm, Portugal wi- with the same last name as me EOS right EOS so I
mean, we had a right conversation cos he- he does the surfing, just
West of Lagos, where I’ve been out to a lo- loada times, so the next
time I going over, I’m going to see him for a drink, now that’s the
future EOS do you know- EOS that is the future EOS that’s how you pick
a fella up EOS it is EOS I- EOS honest to God I- I wouldn’t know how
to do that, in fact, a few times erm, I’ve- when I was going to excuse
me, ‘Sign’ **anon** the art EOS yeah, yeah EOS a few of them said,
‘ooh, we go on these chat-room things and everything’ EOS oh yeah EOS
‘and we have a right laugh, and I met a few people’, I says, ‘oh
right’, well the first thing, I we- I went into hysterics, cos I says,
‘ooh, what is it, I’ll have a go at that’ she goes, ‘ooh, it’s called
plenty of fish’, well EOS I set off laughing, I says ‘it’s called
what?’, she says, ‘plenty of fish’ EOS she says, ‘the only trouble is’
she says, ‘you have to be careful cos some of them are only after one
thing’ I says, ‘well do you think that could be because of the name of
the site?’ EOS you know, ‘plenty of fish’, she says, ‘I never thought
of that’, well I was- I nearly choked laughing EOS right, but each
time I try to get onto these things EOS yeah EOS I can’t do it EOS
can’t you? EOS no EOS oh, I’ll show you EOS but I must do something
because I keep getting things saying EOS ‘we’ve found your perfect
match’ or ‘somebody wants to get in touch with you but when I try to
go back on it, you know, I’ll press it on me emails to go EOS yeah EOS
and I still get lost and I don’t know what I’m doing and I think, ‘oh,
sack it’ and it’s frustrating EOS yeah EOS you know, so I don’t
bother, I just play solitaire on the computer EOS I’m just- EOS and
I’ll sit- EOS I’m just naïve me, I ge- I got one called erm, **anon**
so I thought, ooh, I’ll, you know- EOS what, **anon** EOS **anon**
it’s called- EOS is that- did you send me something about that? EOS
don’t think so EOS oh, go on EOS but I mean, it said like, join this,
I’m thinking, ‘yeah, go on then’ I’m thinking it’s like facebook you
know, a social networking site, so I goes on, next thing, ‘beep’, th-
this fella, ‘oh hello Sonia **anon**, I really like your photo, can I
see your- your album’ well I’m taking the piss, so I’ve put my
photograph on erm, and I hate being judged by me- me age, so instead
of putting I was born in **anon**, I put I was born in nineteen
sixteen, so, my photo album’s called, ‘look at me, I’m ninety three’
EOS so, so, that’s got this fella, you know, ‘can I have a look at
your album’, ‘what for?’, ‘please let me have a look at your album’,
‘oh, alright then’, so it’s- next thing, I’ve got fifteen fellas,
throughout the globe, one- one was in China, one was in Italy,
somewhere, one- and they’re all talking, and typing furiously away,
‘what do you wanna look at me photos for, don’t you know I’m ninety
three’ but that w- that is a completely dodgy site, and I’m telling
you now I was talking t- I’m just naïve me, so I’m talking to this
fella, from erm, where was he from? Stafford, so I’m saying, ‘ooh, w-
what’s the weather like in Stafford’, ‘oh, it’s alright, you know’,
‘what you up to today?’, ‘oh, well I- I drive erm, a wagon for a
living’, I went, ‘oh, do you, do you get up- do you get up to
Manchester often?’, ‘ooh yeah, I’m in Trafford Park erm, all the time,
next time I come up I’ll give you a call’ I went, ‘ooh right, alright
fine’ next thing, ‘erm, so what’s your number?’, ‘erm, well I won’t
give you me number now, erm’, ‘well I’m coming up to Trafford Park
next week’ EOS ‘erm, will you have sex’ ‘with me in me cab’ EOS what?
EOS I went EOS oh my God EOS ‘I thought you were gonna ask me for a
coffee EOS come on Sonia **anon**, you’re ninety-three **anon**
honestly EOS ninety EOS honestly EOS is that what they said? EOS yeah,
honestly, I just went I’ll block that one off, so I- I’ve decided to
knock that one on the head cos EOS aaah EOS no, seriously, totally, I
mean- and, erm, you know, they want to know if you’ve got a webcam,
and will you do this for them, and will you do that for them EOS oh
no, no, no, no EOS and again, just go to the frigging place in
Manchester where the girls get paid for a living you know EOS yeah EOS
th- there are places where you can go, ‘will you shag me in me cab in
Trafford Park?’ I don’t think so EOS eh EOS I’ll need a- I’ll need a
curry and a bottle of wine before EOS I need a four p- I- I need a
four-poster at least EOS oh God, that- EOS that EOS I’d a died if
that- EOS I’d a been, ‘ooh, ooh, ooh’ EOS **anon** come and sort this
out for me EOS I’m sure you could’ve thought of some very choice words
EOS I probably would’ve done yeah EOS I’d’ve probably got barred off
the internet for using bad language EOS a big red flashing thing you
know EOS oh EOS you can’t say that on this- on this site EOS site, I
know, ah no oh I’ve never come across anything- I’ve never been- I
never get into anything- I never get far enough into it to even have a
conversation with normal people never mind EOS find a site like that,
so I’ve ne- l- like I say I’ve tried a few times, and never got on
properly at anytime EOS mm EOS anytime at all so I just- I just sack
it now, in fact, I went on me emails the other day and there was
about- I had fifty nine messages, and I bet twenty of them was from
them saying they’ve found a perfect partner EOS off different things
that I’ve tried to get on EOS right EOS and couldn’t EOS right EOS
but, they’ve got me name and email address so they just send me all
these things and I s- I think EOS mm EOS it’s no use having him there,
I’m here, I don’t know how to get to him EOS ah EOS so I just leave
it, just sack it EOS what, would you go for a coffee in Manchester?
EOS erm, no way but it’s erm, it is it is crazy, and I say to
**anon**, ‘why don’t you get on?’, cos I want her to keep up with her
email and keep in touch with her friends EOS yeah EOS and she goes,
‘I’m on a bleeding computer all day, I’m not getting on it again’ and
she won’t EOS yeah EOS sh- you know, it- in fact she lost her email
address because it had been that long EOS right EOS since she’s been
on it, and the- after a while, I didn’t realise, our **anon** says,
‘oh yeah, if you’ve not used your email address for a long time they
squash it and you have to start up again’ EOS mm EOS ooh I didn’t know
that EOS she says, cos it happened to her so I said, ‘oh right’, so
erm, w- she had to set up a- well I did it for her, I sound dead
clever now don’t I EOS I did it for her, I sorted it out, and got her
back on but erm, she still doesn’t go on it much, and I mean it would
benefit her EOS hmm EOS with her being deaf EOS yeah EOS you know, EOS
yeah EOS I mean she only texts anyway when she uses her phone, what a
performance I’ve had with that she went to erm, Salford to get a new
phone and I could see people looking at us, and some of them
tittering, she says, ‘but I need a phone’ she says, ‘that has got a
good vibrator on it’ EOS ca- EOS and we’re in the middle on this shop
and I’m thinking, ‘oh God’, she says, ‘because the last phone I got’
she says, ‘the vibration was no good, I couldn’t feel it’ she says,
erm, ‘and I was missing all me calls’ EOS ah no EOS so I’m there
saying, ‘look, she’s deaf, she needs a phone with a decent vibration
on it so that when it’s in her back pocket she can feel it’ EOS yeah
EOS I says, ‘the other phone that she got she ended up swapping
because it was no good to her, she was missing everything’ ‘right,
okay’, and she wanted one with a good camera on it, and we were going
through anyway- EOS wouldn’t you think though, that, you know, compa-
phone companies w- would make phones specifically for deaf people EOS
I know well that’s- EOS as a communication device I mean EOS yeah EOS
you know EOS that’s- that’s one thing that they are lacking in EOS
right EOS because, she has- EOS right EOS sh- when we go, we don’t go
for a new phone and we’re in and out in a- in an hour EOS mm EOS we
can be in there two or three hours EOS yeah EOS because she’s there
and they’re putting- they ringing all these phones and she’s holding
them trying to say EOS yeah EOS ‘no, that’s no good, that’s no good’,
you know, and I think- and I don’t- the worst thing is, she takes me
with her, and I don’t know the first thing EOS about phones so I’m
neither use nor ornament EOS yeah EOS so she gets this phone home it
was spent more time at home than it did with her because the battery
was going flat all the time, she was charging it up every other day
and what else, there was a f- there was about three things wrong with
it so we checked the agreement and it says you can change it- you can
cancel it within seven days, so she said, ‘right’, so she types this
letter out at work stops off at Salford, she says, ‘right, I don’t
want this anymore’ ‘cancelling me contract’ they said, ‘you can’t do
this- that’ she says, ‘yeah, oh yes I can’, ‘oh, you’ve got to do it
in writing’, she goes, ‘there it is, copy for you, copy for me’, ‘no
you’ve got to send it to ‘ead o- head office’ and all this that and
the other so she had a big row with them she- she left the phone on
the desk, they says, ‘no, no, you can’t leave it here’, she says,
‘yes, I can I’m leaving it, I’m cancelling everything’, and she went
out the shop shouting, EOS ‘you’re all mad if you get a phone from
here’ EOS oh God EOS I thought- EOS I can just see her doing that and
all EOS I know, she’s dead erm, she’s dead bolshy isn’t she EOS I
thought, I’m glad I wasn’t with her, but anyway, they’ve sent her a
letter back saying, yes, she can cancel the contract, but she’s got to
pick the phone up, and she’s gotta ring them and then they’ve got to
arrange to pick it up and all this that and the other, I thought EOS
yeah EOS why not just give it back to the shop EOS yeah EOS and leave
it at that, so that’s what- EOS but I bet- did she pick it up from the
shop? EOS yeah EOS right EOS yeah EOS cause the- EOS she went in the
shop and got it from the shop, so why not just take it back to the
shop EOS yeah yeah EOS so, but that’s what she’s got to do, so that’s
what I’ll have to do later on, erm, EOS go and see my mate down there,
**anon** EOS she’s got one now EOS has she? That’s a good’n? EOS well,
I- don’t ask me, it’s- it’s got all little things on it that she
likes, it’s a touch phone, an iphone it is EOS oooh, has she got an
iphone? EOS yeah, she’s got an iphone, so she’s quite happy with that
EOS me Mum wants one of them EOS yeah EOS erm, and it’s- sh- it’s not
the latest one, she says, ‘I don’t want the latest one Mam, because,
it’s only just come out and then they’ll find out all the problems and
this, that and the other with it’ EOS yeah, yeah EOS she says, ‘so
I’ll wait a- a bit and then I might in two years I’ll update it again’
EOS mm EOS she says, ‘but I’m happy with this one now and it does this
and it does-’ oh, she spends hours messing about, but, in saying about
the- the computer EOS mm EOS that’s got it in, so she gets her emails
through that anyway EOS yeah, yeah EOS so- cos she’s been saying to
me, ‘ooh, I got a birthday card off **anon** and erm, I’ve got, erm,
one off-’ who er- can’t remember who else, but she got birthday cards
sent to her over the erm EOS yeah EOS erm, internet on her facebook
and that EOS yeah EOS so she was quite chuffed about that so, EOS yeah
EOS she’s erm, yeah she’s- she makes me laugh though s- EOS but them-
them iphones, I mean, you know that phone, that flip phone, I bought
me and me Mum one and it must be five years ago EOS cause I think it
was the Christmas of- that I bought it her and she’s had it five
years, well sh- she’s since the contract’s run out, she’s got- put it
on pay as you go but she’s got this new mega deal something through
Virgin or whatever for her phone, so what she wants to do is unlock
this phone that I got her five years ago erm so that she can have it
on this Virgin, but six months ago she was moaning and moaning and
moaning she wanted an iphone, I’m saying, ‘Mam, you can’t even
bleeding text, what do you want an iphone for?’ she’s like, ‘well
**anon** such-and-such-a- body’s got one, and we were in a restaurant
and I- and me and your Dad, we were chatting away, and we said, erm,
yeah, oh yes, we still live in Salford, and I told her me address, and
I’m not kidding you, she turned her phone round, and there was our
front door, on her phone- on her phone- I- my front door was on her
phone’ and I went, ‘yeah, well it’ll be an iphone, and they’ve got
satellite navigation and all that’, ‘well, I want one’ EOS I said,
‘but you still don’t know how to text’ EOS to text, yeah EOS ‘I’ll
learn’ EOS yeah EOS that’s it, th- th- they are good, if you’re into
gadgets EOS mmhmm EOS but I’m not into gadgets, I can’t- one- EOS I
think they’ve gotta be something that you’re gonna use isn’t it EOS
yeah, EOS you know EOS me eyes are bad, and, even my phone I’ve got
now EOS mm EOS I’m like this, and I’m putting two pairs of glasses on
reading it, so to start messing about and trying to learn EOS yeah EOS
how to do this, that and the other on a phone, that- I’m gonna
struggle to see anyway EOS yeah EOS it doesn’t seem worth it to me, as
long as I can text and phone, that’s all I’m bothered about EOS yeah
EOS I mean I can’t even use the camera properly on this or- or the,
erm, video thing EOS mm EOS I c- I- it’s- you can change the length of
time EOS yeah EOS I still can’t do it I take a picture, it’s funny, I
take a picture like that, and I press the button and I go like that to
look at it, and then it’ll go ‘click’ EOS but I’ve moved- it’s like a
delayed thing on it EOS yeah, yeah EOS mm EOS and I don’t know how to
get it off EOS right EOS so I can’t even take a proper picture when I
want to, it ends up something else cos I’ve moved the- EOS did you get
a disc with it? EOS probably, but I never use that either I never- I
never put them in to see- EOS I- all- all I’m saying is, I mean I’m-
I’m no techy at all, but, whenever I’ve got anything, like I’ve got a
camera, or satnav or, you get a disc with it, and then, when you’ve
got the time, and, you know me, I never- I never even look at a recipe
I just think I can cook, throw it all in together, but I- I’ll be
thinking to meself, ‘ooh, I don’t know how to use that video bit on me
camera’ EOS yeah EOS but all I’ll do is either go on the computer or
go on the little pamphlet, and they’re dead easy to use nowadays EOS
yeah EOS it’s just having the patience to sit down EOS down EOS and-
and actually read through it EOS and actu- read through it, yeah EOS
cause they are easy, you know, everything’s like user friendly these
days, they’re not like they used to be, cos I- you know, manuals used
to be unless you had a degree EOS you couldn’t bloody read it, EOS
under- I know EOS never mind understand what was on them EOS I g- I
always go, ‘what does that mean?’ , ‘what’s that word there, what does
it mean?’ EOS yeah EOS oh God, but that’s it, it takes me that long to
read summet I’ve got fed up with it EOS but I think you get frightened
of things, and I think you’re just- you have like a- a mental blinker
EOS yeah EOS and you think, ‘I’m just ne- I’m not gonna be able to use
that’ erm, because me Dad’s not got a mobile phone, and me Mum’s been
saying, ‘well, you know, when I get me iphone, your Dad can have my-
my old one’ erm, and I say, ‘well I’ll be able to teach him how to use
it’ cos I am good at showing people what EOS yeah EOS you know, how to
use thing- things, but you know, I think sometimes you just get mental
block where you think, ‘I’m never gonna be able to do it’, so you’re
preventing yourself from- from- from learning EOS yeah EOS erm, in a
way EOS I know, I m- that is- that is true, it’s like me, I was scared
of the laptop, I was scared to death breaking it EOS right, pressing
the wrong thing? EOS yeah, and, I think that came from when I was
working and I was ill and I was in the office this time and they said,
‘oh, just put these facts and figures in’ I says, ‘oh I don’t know
anything’, ‘oh, we’ll show you’, ‘I- I’m scared of losing the data’,
‘you can’t lose the data’, fine, fair enough, and they showed me how
to do this, and I was doing it for weeks, and then I got cocky,
starting- trying to play about with it EOS mm EOS and the next minute
it all went off and I says, ‘ooh, there’s summet- ooh’ I says, ‘you
said I can’t lose this data didn’t you’, ‘yeah’, ‘oh, well, come and
sort it out then, cos it’s all gone black’ and the next minute he
goes, ‘I don’t believe it Harriet **anon** you’ve lost the data’ EOS I
says, ‘you told me I couldn’t do that’ I says, ‘so it’s your fault,
it’s not mine’ EOS there’s o- there’s only one person who could’ve
lost the data and it was you EOS yeah, it was, and the thing was I was
dead worried but, because he’d said, ‘oh no, you’re alright, it- you
can’t lose it’ EOS yeah EOS I got cocky and I thought, ‘ooh, well I
can’t do any damage’, so you start messing round- and he’d says to me
EOS ‘just have a go, keep playing with it and learning, and you’ll
become more confident’, so I did EOS yeah EOS and then I lost
everything EOS and he said, ‘no, just keep to what you was doing
before, just put the data in’, ‘right’ but, that’s why when I got mine
it was, hmm EOS yeah EOS you know, viruses, all I heard about was
virus- say I put a virus in it, I don’t know how you- EOS mm EOS I
could put a virus in it but and so it was touching the odd key like
that, ‘ooh what’s happened, what-’ and that’s all you got out of me
for the first month, ‘ooh, what’s happened, what’ve I done, what’ve I
done’ but you need to learn what the keys do and what they don’t do
EOS course you do, yeah EOS and that was my problem, our **anon** was
saying to me ages ago, he’s texting me, you know, when he- and he-
he’s on facebook and he’s- EOS yeah EOS leaving me a message and- and
the name pops up, and then you type in there and I thought EOS ‘ooh
right’, so I typed some- he says, ‘just type in at the bottom’ so I
just typed in at the bottom and then I thought, ‘right, now what do I
do with it?’ and, I clicked on it and it went off, and I did this,
that and in the end I went a- the long way round EOS mm EOS to text
him what I’d just wrote in that square cos I couldn’t send it to him,
I didn’t know how to send it EOS yeah EOS and then, who was it
**anon**, granddaughter, EOS just press the return key EOS yeah, ‘you
press that Nanna’ ‘right, okay’, but I was coming out of that EOS yeah
EOS getting his name up and going the long way round because I didn’t
know how to send EOS yeah EOS in that, it- and, it- unless you know
what all the keys do EOS mm EOS y- EOS and that’s e- exactly right y-
you know, a- and everybody, everybody, ah kid, is exactly the same,
you know, when you first look at computer, unless you’ve been shown
what to do, how are you supposed to know? EOS yeah, the best of it is
I went to erm, the erm, oh what’s it called EOS in Eccles and they
were doing computer courses for free EOS oh yeah EOS and if you went
regular and you passed through the course, they’d give you a computer,
wh- you know EOS right EOS and you could keep it for so long and then
pay fifty pound for it, something like that EOS right EOS I thought,
‘ooh, I’ll get a computer’ and, I was going there learning and I h- I
had a file and me discs and everything and I started to learn a bit
EOS yeah EOS but then I think she was off ill and I’d gone all the way
to Eccles a couple of weeks, and nobody had bothered ringing me and
kept saying, ‘ooh, she’s not here this week, she’s not come in’, ‘oh,
she’s not’ and in the end I just sacked it EOS yeah EOS otherwise- but
thinking about it, I only found all that information in the disc when
was it, was it yesterday or the day before when I was looking for
something for **anon** EOS mm EOS so I might get that out and put it
in and start EOS yeah EOS trying to learn a bit more EOS yeah EOS but
like I say, I’m sure it has the keyboard EOS you see, it’s- EOS it- on
it EOS it’s amazing though I mean how quickly things change, I mean I
remember doing erm, a computer course it’s not ten years ago, at night
school, erm, cos you know our- our **anon** did computers at- at
college and that, and I thought, ‘we’ve got a bloody big computer in
there and you know, when I’m on me day off it’s sat there doing
nothing, I may as well learn how to use it’ EOS yeah EOS so I went on
a computer course and one of the first things they showed me how to
do, erm, was put something on a floppy disc, we don’t use floppy discs
anymore, who uses floppy discs now EOS what’s a floppy disc? EOS it’s
a small disc EOS like erm- like a CD? EOS yeah, yeah EOS I thought
they- I thought EOS no, no, no, no, no, it’s not, what am I talking
about, it- they used to be like in a square EOS that’s what I’ve got
EOS yeah, but nobody uses them these days EOS you know from my
computer course, that’s what it is EOS they use them little I’ve got
one, dongle thingies, it’s not a dongle EOS you put it in the side of
the computer and you save it on to- on to that EOS memory stick EOS a
memory stick, yeah, that’s it, that’s what they’re called EOS oh right
EOS but that- that wasn’t ten years ago, and yet things have changed
already EOS that’s what I’m saying, the technology nowadays is
changing that fast EOS yeah EOS people who are a bit slow, it’s very
hard EOS to catch up EOS do you know what I mean? I- probably, I’ll
get dead good, on the computer and the laptop, and then they’ll go and
change it to something else and I’ll have to start from scratch, and
it’s I- you give up in the end, I- I do EOS I think the- the- I think
the- there’ll always be a qwerty keyboard, there’ll always be a qwerty
keyboard, on what- on whatever technology that you’re gonna use, cos
that’s our form of communication in the West EOS eh well, we’ll see
EOS so you’ll be right EOS yeah, like I say, I’m gonna keep trying and
erm, so that floppy disc EOS yeah EOS what makes me laugh, is why do
they call it floppy cos it’s as stiff as a board EOS why if- if- if
I’ve got one of them would I be able to put it in my computer, it is a
computer, it’s not a- a laptop EOS yeah EOS would I? EOS yeah EOS
right, cos I might have a go at that EOS mm EOS and erm, try and learn
a bit more we even went, me and our **anon**, he says erm, ‘oh,
there’s a computer course starting’ so being, he says, ‘right’ I says,
‘I’ll come with you’ he asks me, I says ‘yeah, okay, I’ll come with
you’, and it was in **anon** EOS oh yeah EOS so I got us on, we went
down we was- th- there was only me and him there and the tutor and, we
did this course, then the week after, it was really bad storms, I
think it was advised, if you didn’t have to go out, don’t go out EOS
yeah EOS so I says, ‘we’re not going **anon**, I’m not going in this,
it’s really too bad, and I don’t want you driving up here’, ‘right,
okay’, so the week after that, we went again, ‘oh, they’ve cancelled
it’, you know, ‘not enough people turned up’ EOS yeah EOS so, EOS yeah
EOS I didn’t even do that, cos a lot of people now have- are learning
off their kids EOS yeah EOS because the kids are doing it in school
now EOS mm EOS the kids are showing the parents how to use a computer
EOS well I know our **anon** erm, give me a disc, ooh, I’m ashamed to
say, God knows where it is, but I think it- think it was called ECDL,
but that was literally, you taught yourself how to use a computer from
the CD, you just loaded the CD, and then it, you know, talked you how
to go through what to do, and I thought, ‘ooh, how fantastic’, but,
they’re something like seventy pound I think EOS mm EOS she got it
because of- she got it through work, erm, so they wanna be giving
them- them out in erm, these lessons and say like, well do this in- in
lesson and then EOS well, you’ll have to find that EOS yeah EOS cause
that might do me EOS mm EOS that might help me EOS yeah, and it’s not
so much- I mean I’m pretty computer literate but sometimes it’s the
language they use EOS yeah EOS you know, that EOS that is confusing
cos they just think, ‘upload’, ‘upl- what does up- upload mean?’ EOS
upload mean? Yeah, I’m like that EOS yeah EOS cause I- I d- I don’t
know how to- you can put things on a disc can’t you? you know, if you
wanted erm, say a song EOS yeah EOS and you put a disc in and you
could b- EOS rip and burn, EOS yeah EOS yeah EOS you can do that, or,
any information you can put on a disc, I can’t do things like that, I
don’t know h- I’ve got the facility EOS yeah, within your computer EOS
but, I don’t know how to do it EOS yeah EOS and that’s something I
would like to do, cos I’d like to be able to download photographs EOS
mm EOS and you know, even, you know, different things EOS mm EOS I’d
love to be able to do that EOS mm EOS but I don’t know how to do that
EOS right, you see that’s dead, dead easy, I’d be able to show you
that EOS yeah EOS erm, but I tell you on- one good tip, that somebody
told me years ago, erm, on a computer is, you know all you get- get a
question mark, wherever you are, there’s that, either question mark or
a help EOS just click on that if y- if you’re stuck on it and
somewhere it’ll explain how to do what you want to do, cos what I tend
to do is I always have a- like a pad at the side of the computer and
then, whatever it tells me to do, I’ll write it down, and some of the
things are so easy, it’s like, ‘click on start, click on programs,
click on this, click on that, click on that, click on that, right,
change that to a ‘no’, you’re sorted’ EOS what it is- EOS and I’ll
never remember it, like EOS yeah EOS the following day, once I’ve
slept, that’s it, but once it’s written down, it’s written out,
‘start, de, programs, blah, blah, blah’ EOS yeah, but what it is,
because it’s a computer, and it’s a complicated piece of equipment,
you look at it, and you go, ‘ooh, I don’t know how to do this’, ‘ooh,
I can I-’ because you think it’s gonna be complicated EOS yeah, yeah
EOS and then when someone shows you, you go, ‘oh, is that it’ and EOS
yeah, yeah EOS you’re dead surprised EOS yeah EOS it’s so simple EOS
yeah EOS but, because you’re looking at this equipment and you’re
thinking, ‘it must be complicated’ EOS like you say, you’re mind goes
blank, EOS mm EOS it’s like a mental block EOS yeah EOS and you don’t
see the simple little things that come up that say, ‘just press here’,
or ‘just do thi-’ EOS mm EOS y- it- you don’t see it, it’s like a
mental blindness cos y- you panic EOS yeah, yeah EOS you don’t see it
EOS you do, you get blinkered, what I- what I used- when I was
training, what I used to do with anyone in- in my office was say,
right, there’s your pad, and I mean them days we used to call them an
idiot guide, you’re not allowed to do that anymore, erm, but, say for
example it was like, you know, rip and burn, like, ‘click on that,
click on that, click on that, click on that’ right, now write it down,
in those short phrases, not, ‘put your disc in this’, just ‘click,
click, click, click’ like a- a small, short, a reminder, EOS yeah EOS
erm, and that’s it, right, you put that away, don’t look at it, right,
now you’ve not done rip and burning for six months, right, get your
idiot guide, get it out, ‘oh yeah’, click, click, click, click, click,
EOS click, click, click, EOS and it’s easy then EOS yeah EOS it
becomes dead easy, and y’kn- y- th- it- it takes away the fear,
because it’ll be something, you know, it- and I don’t care who you
are, however brainy you are that you’ll- you’ll just forget EOS yeah
EOS what do I go into for that EOS to for that, yeah EOS erm, and it-
it’s just there for you EOS yeah I’ll have to get stuck in me and erm,
try a bit harder, get to know everything properly EOS I know EOS right
how are we doing? EOS I think that’s alright that, yep, I was just
letting you finish off, great EOS good, cos I’m bursting for a pee EOS
are you EOS right one sec, EOS can I- EOS get this going again, can
you just talk for me EOS one, two- EOS oh hang on EOS oh right