one, two, three, four, five EOS I don’t need a pen EOS what is your
best or funniest memory from when you were young? no, neither can I
EOS yeah, I love Science, mm EOS ah glad we don’t go school anymore
though EOS doesn’t it feel weird saying that? **anon** EOS isn’t it, I
said **anon**- I saw **anon** and it felt well weird saying **anon**
the other day EOS no, it were- we weren’t in Wetherspoons, was with
**anon** and they were walking past the pub that I was in, can’t
remember which pub it EOS yeah, it’s well weird seeing some- yeah, I
saw him yesterday I was like, ‘hi’, and like, ‘you work here?’ and
then **anon** told me like, **anon** EOS don’t think I had one EOS oh,
do you remember woodwork do you remember doing woodwork EOS mine were
always shocking EOS I didn’t do that EOS we didn’t do that EOS I’ve
still got some of my stuff EOS I’ve got my plane, painted it pink EOS
mines at m- my house EOS oh, I’ll have to show you actually when you
come round to my house EOS I still got it, and there’s a little box
thing that I made, it was EOS no it was just a normal box and with a
lid EOS and like, it’s not like even sort of thing, it’s a bit wonky
EOS and painted that was painted mostly pink as well, don’t know EOS I
remember making the bird feeders and th- you never put the thing on it
EOS and we never got it back, so, I was a bit gutted at the time EOS
you probably did, I- I was gutted that I didn’t get it back EOS yeah,
he’s alright EOS I can’t believe he’s one one EOS we’re walking round
Trafford Centre, erm, and my sister was trying to get some trainers or
something, so me and **anon** are walking round Trafford Centre and
some of the looks we were getting, like we were EOS which reminds me
right, on Saturday, I was at **anon** Granddad’s club and I was with
this little kid, babysitting sort of thing while person was working
behind the bar, so I sat there with it, and some of the looks I was
getting as well then EOS like it was my kid, **anon** sat next to me,
well funny EOS yeah, when the babies are right there it sort of does
make you want a kid but then EOS but then after that, there was this
little kid- there was this little kid, and bloody screaming I thought,
‘yep, that makes you not want a kid’ EOS they are cute though EOS they
always say that don’t they EOS everyone loves my boyfriend EOS more
than me probably EOS been nearly three years EOS gone quick though EOS
look at them dogs EOS imagine walking that down the road? can imagine
the owner having that colour hair as well couldn’t you? dressed to
match EOS it is under pressure EOS did you ever do anything after
school? no, neither did I, I don’t think EOS yeah, I didn’t like PE, I
only liked it when we started going to the EOS me and you are just
stood there like this EOS we were just there talking weren’t we EOS go
to the gym now though actually take it serious EOS I’d hate it EOS
what, in like year seven and everything? I think it’s cos it’s an arts
and thingy college EOS at erm, school, isn’t it EOS what you liked it
or didn’t? hate these adverts EOS that’s just reminded me of something
that, on my first day, I got my sister to do my tie, cos y- y- you
didn’t have it the right way, did EOS you had that little, small bit
there EOS so now I did that, got to form, had **anon**, do you
remember **anon**? she bloody made us blooming undo it EOS I didn’t
know how to do a bloody tie neither EOS so I was there, undone this
tie, and I’m thinking, ‘how do you do EOS too- t- t- took me ages to
figure out- get used to doing it EOS yeah, but it was dead small like
EOS I know, just as we come they got the blazers as well EOS no,
that’s what I mean, just as we got there, that’s when they got EOS cos
my sister didn’t have to have one until we started coming, our year,
they just brought them in EOS it had places to put things EOS it was
horrible in summer though when they made you wear your jumper EOS and
you had to ask to take it off EOS it was stupid yeah, but like, in
classrooms though it’s always warmer isn’t it EOS but they’re not
exactly gonna say no are they well, they can’t EOS so I don’t know why
you had to ask EOS you’re still gonna take it off EOS remember getting
the cream eggs actually at Easter EOS it’s cos you had to wear a black
coat EOS how embarra- I hate that EOS and them white socks EOS they
look ridiculous EOS it looks alright, but EOS pants, black, white,
black EOS was really strict actually if you think about it EOS do you
remember? cos they used to pick at anything didn’t they EOS ‘don’t do
this, don’t do that’ EOS remember when they used to make you tuck your
shirts in as EOS normally had a jumper on over it so you couldn’t tell
anyway EOS so they didn’t normally notice, unless it was like, hanging
out EOS see they’re the things I don’t miss about school EOS you can
paint it, paint it EOS I know I need a car EOS I need a job first
actually EOS passed in December and no car still EOS that’s the thing
EOS it’s like that with **anon** though, because I always get lifts
everywhere so th- that time when his car weren’t working, it was EOS
just like not having your car for a week EOS ah, I can’t believe I
dreamt that you said that you were getting the EOS yeah, I had to
check my messages EOS in my dream I read a text saying, ‘I’m just
leaving a bit earlier cos I’m getting the bus down’ so I was think- I
remember thinking, ‘oh, what’s wrong with her car then?’ EOS and I had
to look and I think it- it weren’t there EOS well that’s what I
thought was weird EOS hmm not watched- I need to catch up on corrie
actually went to Ibiza EOS so I’ve missed everything EOS It was good
actually EOS Claudia’s **anon** going away in October aren’t you?
‘that’s what I want’ EOS ah, that’s horrible that EOS better than
being over here anyway EOS will be in October anyway EOS Mum and Dad
go away the same time as she goes away EOS I know ahh, can’t wait for
Christmas, can’t wait for Chris- it’s nearly Christmas EOS it is
actually, cos it is the eighth month isn’t it, I didn’t know it was
that close actually EOS I’m still like a little kid at Christmas, wake
up dead early EOS I don’t even know what I got, what did you get? I
don’t know why I even know what I get anymore EOS ooh, I wanna know
what I got now, I can’t think EOS what did you get for Christmas EOS I
wonder what **anon** actually like in school EOS I remember you
telling me that he got kicked out of that other school EOS he’s meant
to be the brainy one as well EOS I love having the house to myself EOS
I’m glad my sister’s moved out actually EOS she moved out at Christmas
EOS ‘stop pushing me’ EOS yeah tricky TV- tricky TV, yeah, it’s sad
that I know that EOS do you remember Art Attack? That was good EOS I
used to love watching all them programmes EOS erm, like now? oh, in
school EOS I dunno, bit far away to remember EOS used to go out with
**anon** was **anon** and **anon** and all that go out with us EOS I
think I remember him coming into school actually EOS saying that he
was beat up EOS or summet on them lines EOS God, I remember that EOS
remember when **anon** and **anon** were together actually EOS and
they went into a bush t- just to kiss EOS bloody hell you look back
now and you’re like, what the hell EOS at least United won yesterday
anyway I weren’t paying much attention to the match EOS I was just
drinking EOS yeah, drinking from twelve ‘til like nine EOS I got very
drunk, no, I don’t get hangovers to be honest but EOS I’ve not stopped
drinking f- since I’ve back- been back off holiday, I come back on f-
was it EOS Friday morning so, went for ten days and I’ve not stopped
EOS this is me first day that I’m not having a drink EOS b- I have, I
have, I’ve not drank any at- th- that was all spent at EOS ah, I’ve
still got that vodka at home, got a litre bottle of vodka, ten ninety
five euro EOS so I- I thought, ‘right, I’ll get that’ EOS did, didn’t
we went- went to Trafford Centre, then went to Asda, had to carry all
the bags, through- back to the Trafford Centre EOS and then when we -
I forgot that we weren’t at- parked at Asda as well until like we just
got hold of the bags, I thought, ‘oh, we’ve gotta walk through EOS we
both didn’t know where we were going, I was gonna walk out a blooming
different exit, weren’t I EOS to try and get to Asda EOS and it’s
through Selfridges EOS and we had to find which way it was, cos it- we
were parked, was it at John Lewis? I know we always get mixed up
between EOS like Debenhams and John Lewis EOS it’s at the other end
EOS I want Celebrity Juice to come back on actually EOS is that not
back on next month, I’m sure it’s September it comes back EOS makes me
laugh though Inbetweeners is out on the seventeenth, I can’t wait to
watch that EOS well the only bloody trailer I’ve seen, which was a
while ago now, cos I remember looking on youtube was where they’re
just bloody walking through a town, weren’t the greatest trailer EOS
just watching them walk, I was thinking, ‘this is a great time to
advertise a film’ you know, if someone’s not seen it EOS oh, I’m gonna
have to search it now EOS ah, you should paint your door a different
colour EOS cause there’s just one door isn’t there that’s different
EOS you never know EOS can’t believe I’ve come back to Manchester and
it’s horrible, was nice while I was away EOS well, come back and it’s
horrible again EOS oh, do you remember them EOS when you used to go to
like Wacky Warehouse or something, and big ball pools and stuff EOS
you went down the slide and went straight into EOS I never thought
about that EOS I thought you were gonna say kids hiding EOS Claudia
**anon** y- don’t even know what they’re doing in there EOS you had it
the other day didn’t you actually? Oh no, you didn’t EOS you had that
Chinese didn’t you, I forgot EOS you still ate it EOS six pound and-
did you eat all them peanuts you got? you’re like, there’s not-
there’s- there’s not enough in this one EOS it was huge though that
bag EOS there was none EOS yep, th- the ones were worse near- round
that other side EOS where they always played football, can’t think of
where it was EOS I don’t remember this EOS was it **anon** had that
rumour EOS don’t know if it is true EOS used his boxers as well to
wipe EOS apparently it was all over the toilet seat and everything EOS
ah, the Art teacher? took everyone’s chocolate and food and EOS and
then didn’t give it them back EOS and eat it himself EOS didn’t give
him money, didn’t give him money or anything, just took it off him EOS
I used to love tomato ketchup actually EOS don’t worry, it was the
advert EOS anyone listening to this is gonna think I’m really random
EOS don’t like it no more though EOS I dunno, I think it- I might-
must’ve had it too much when I was EOS and gone off it EOS I am really
fussy EOS I just don’t like anything on my sandwich, do I? and now I
just have bread and butter cos there’s too much sugar in EOS well
that’s when I go to- when I went college and stuff EOS don’t think I
would’ve liked them EOS ahh, why don’t you go college and get one EOS
not that it’s gonna be open but still EOS get one when we go and get
r- our results next Thursday EOS it’s so close EOS I haven’t got a
clue EOS it’s annoy- it’s annoying though when people get good grades
and they’re like, ‘this is really shocking’ EOS you know when like,
say they get a B or an A or like, C or summet, and they’re like, ‘oh,
this is rubbish this’, and it’s like, it’s not EOS aye, I need two B’s
and a C to get in Uni EOS hopefully I will EOS I know I can’t, but I
don’t if it’s before the like, actually Uni starts, I want my money
EOS but they’re not gonna give me my money, are they? cause I need it
EOS otherwise I won’t be going out much in the beginning EOS now she’s
got a Samsung, her old phone EOS you do anyway EOS yeah, they probably
did EOS yay, fun times EOS why are they all pound signs on this map?
wish I could win EOS when I win the lottery, just don’t put it on
though EOS I hope to win it, just don’t put it on EOS yeah, my M- my
Mum and Dad put it on every week EOS you hardly ready- for anything
though on it, do they? every now and again they’ll win a tenner or
something EOS makes me laugh EOS made me laugh on holiday, you know
like the fruit machines and stuff that you get over here EOS **anon**
decided to go on a foreign one, didn’t understand it EOS but yeah, he
decided to keep putting more and more money in it EOS yeah wish I had
a job EOS always is these days EOS who would pay that? you wouldn’t
pay nine grand though EOS oh I always get bruises EOS I’ve still got
that bite on my leg it’s still like, you run over my leg and it’s like
a proper bad bump, it’s horri- horrible, hate them EOS Claudia’s
**anon** is in the car EOS ‘**anon**, **anon** granddaughter’ EOS she
looks like a man doesn’t she EOS oh, has she grown it? well, she’s
starting to grow her hair EOS at least you get on with them EOS yeah
aye, I get on with all his family EOS ah, so tired EOS want my bed EOS
my mouth was worse cos I was drinking yesterday EOS my throat was dead
sore cos it was dry the other day EOS ah, that reminds me, in the pub
yesterday I was just sat at this table, **anon** and his Dad were
stood at the bar there- this was just at **anon** EOS this was like at
twelve o’clock and EOS this lad called **anon** EOS and this old man
there, so I was- I was just sat there, this per- lad comes in all cuts
down his arm, self harmer EOS blood shot eyes, looked like he was on
God knows what, come in, came up to me and went, ‘have you got any-
any money? Spare pound or something for a drink? I’m shaking, I been
out all night, soaking wet through, I need a drink’, I was like, ‘no’
EOS I went, ‘no’, and th- then they went over to **anon** and his Dad
an- and asked them, they were like, ‘no’, then he went, ‘right, just
gonna go toilet to get a drink of water’ and EOS **anon** went into
the toilet, and all the basins were dry, so I bet he was trying to
like get money out of the machine thing, you know, like cos they have
them machines in the toilets, trying to see if there was money in them
EOS it wouldn’t with me anyway EOS I drink like a fish