one, two, three, one EOS that’s not right that EOS oh yeah, I suppose
it is EOS I was gonna say, mm, yeah EOS and what was that like? is it
any good? that’s not a concert EOS you’ve been ripped off Noel
**anon** EOS did the ceiling EOS ceiling is done and the s- that dado
rail’s done EOS un- undercoated, erm EOS then we moved the furniture
so we can get in and do some EOS stuff tomorrow and EOS I mean, it’ll
be done in a room and- it’s been done, went to B and Q as well, so EOS
plaster is fine he’s EOS **anon** done that flashing, then he’ll be-
be alright EOS well, he was at some point yeah, so if that’s been done
then EOS yeah, and he wants to come to my house and all EOS and I
knocked his head in EOS yeah, I think- erm, no, he’s not working with
you tomorrow I don’t EOS I think **anon** gonna carry on painting EOS
do some stuff EOS then I think he’s with you on Thursday or something
EOS oh is it, Friday then EOS Friday I think EOS but I mean like, once
that ceiling’s done, I mean there’s nothing to those walls in that
room EOS to be honest EOS no, I hope so EOS I’m working tomorrow and
then I’m working Friday and Saturday, I could maybe do that during the
day or something EOS I’m not working ‘til five I think EOS I think I’m
working at five EOS well, secondary school Noel **anon** EOS well,
**anon** oh dear EOS no, I was very good EOS unlike you, Noel **anon**
EOS I was ver- I was very good at school, and I think there was a lot
of pressure from Mum and Dad, well, certainly from Mum to do well, erm
EOS why? cos I think **anon** had done well at secondary school, so
because I think she was classed as intelligent, I was expected to
follow suit, erm and I didn’t think I could erm, kind of do that well
really, and it really used to bother me, that I wasn’t intelligent
enough and I was really quite scared about not going to grammar school
EOS and going to a secondary school but, in the end of the day I’ve
got the qualifications and I suppose won’t, so I think there was some-
not from outside or from the school, I don’t think the sc- the school
or friends or neighbours really cared about anything but I think EOS I
think it was Mum who- for Mum it was important that you- or I think
for me, my standard was- was to study and do the right thing I think
EOS no you didn’t, no EOS well you never went EOS I was good at- I was
good at most things and some stuff I wasn’t EOS I think if somebody
had actually turned round and said, ‘it doesn’t really matter
sometimes’ EOS ‘and you can mess up and you don’t have to get great
grades and that’s still okay’ then I think that would’ve been a good
thing, but EOS it was kind of never really said so, I think you’d- I
just EOS I just wanted to do well and I- I mean I didn’t mind staying
in and studying, I think, you know, I was perhaps a bit more introvert
than EOS in some respects EOS well I think I preferred the books EOS
rather than the football, and the physical stuff, no EOS erm, Leeds
was good, about half an hour before I met **anon** she’d split up with
her boyfriend EOS so erm, that wasn’t a good thing, erm, but yeah it
was good fun, we went for dinner and- it’s an Ir- Irish Wetherspoons
EOS very ch- very cheap EOS so we went there cos we had no money EOS
one meal for about three pound fifty or something EOS so that was-
that was good and had a walk round Leeds EOS nice sunny, vibrant city
EOS caught the train EOS about fifteen pound EOS fifteen pound an- an
hour’s journey EOS every twenty minutes EOS so that was good, I
enjoyed Leeds EOS as a city? erm, well I don’t know Leeds- I don’t
know Leeds well enough EOS yeah, to know whether I’d- I’d prefer it as
a city EOS but I mean I think you could say that Manchester’s- most
people would say that Manchester outside of London, is erm, probably
the- the- the second capital of the UK EOS so many people want to
study here at University, so many people would come here for work I
think, erm, nightlife, social activity EOS for a big city, it’s very
vibrant EOS you got all your quarters, from the gay village to EOS the
Chinese quarter, to the Northern quarter, to expensive shops from
Harvey Nichols to, little cafes and restaurants and everything so it’s
a place I think young people would want to come EOS erm, and good
transport links as well EOS but I think- I think Leeds is- is- is erm,
kind of a clean and modern city as well EOS I don’t think Manchester’s
threatening at all EOS what, when something’s kicking off? that’s
probably burnt down Noel **anon** EOS I mean somebody’s- somebody’s
torched it I should think EOS do I prefer it or EOS do you want me
just to compare them? I think that is a really difficult question,
because I have a very big history down in **anon**, and there are
things that I miss down there, erm, it’s a tourist city it’s- it’s got
money EOS erm, I- I- I EOS well no, it’s- no you’ve- you- y- you- your
main- your main employment there is the University, that- one of the
top ten Universities, and there’s the international students bringing
in money EOS into a city, it’s a heritage city with a Roman archit-
ar- it- it- it- some money is constantly be- being brought in EOS erm,
developments are kept to a minimum, you know, everything has to be
rubber stamped with the council of listed buildings and that, erm a v-
a very bohemian city, erm, very small and compact, I mean, you know,
you haven’t got the EOS infrastructure like Manchester or the- the
vastness of choice, erm, but I would say you also don’t get a lot of
your social problems that you possibly would in, you know, in- in a
large- a large city EOS and perhaps some run down areas, erm, around
Manchester EOS which you just wouldn’t get in a place like **anon**
EOS well would you’ve ever lived in **anon**? If- oh yeah, I- I
enjoyed all those moments as- as holidays down there EOS as a family,
erm, with their being countryside and a very different kinda- kind of
vibe to it EOS yeah, I remember those EOS I was a so I perhaps didn’t
know what it was or something, but, oh, **anon** and **anon** EOS
yeah, but they were good people, you know, they weren’t erm, they were
nice people to be around EOS but I mean I can’t- you know, f- for me
to have- I would- I would live in **anon** again, no problem, erm, but
the reason I can’t is because I’m now priced out of a market, but, you
know what, you have a choice, you can either live live in perhaps a
very nice EOS and not get too much out of a job or something else and
you have to weigh up your job, and your friends, and where your family
is, of a- of a bigger picture of maybe what life is gonna EOS gonna
give you or what you’re gonna get out of it EOS erm, and there are
things that I- I- I miss a lot about **anon** but there are things
that I’ve gained by moving away from it EOS erm, and as a city, I
probably would not EOS wish to live in Birmingham, I w- wouldn’t
really wish to live in EOS erm, or possibly, you know, Edinburgh or
whatever, erm, and I think London is too big EOS I mean it’s too
expensive, but it’s too big EOS whereas a place like Manchester is EOS
it’s got a lot of things going for it EOS never heard of it EOS I did
forget, yeah EOS I never remember your annivers- oh yeah, so it was-
no it wasn’t, it’s tomorrow EOS oh well I thought, no EOS erm, no, but
I did speak to **anon** and she did say it was Thursday EOS I was
trying to get her- to buy- get a drum kit or something for **anon** or
something EOS well, good for him EOS he was gonna do that for **anon**
as well EOS I said it was a very- I said I was a very good idea, and
carry on Dad EOS what for the- for the night EOS gosh, that’s not bad
EOS that’s terrible Noel **anon** EOS did you buy it? not the
champagne but the EOS money to burn EOS what’s that like? the Hovis
advert EOS oh right, yeah EOS did you buy anything? you should’ve got
that Thunderbirds book EOS at least you’ve done some cultural stuff
EOS no, can’t be arsed EOS yeah, or some- what was your friendship
group like as a- as a child then? you used to have more friends than
me though EOS you were more outgoing I think EOS was yeah, well it was
for you EOS or the top of the road Noel **anon** EOS I think most of
mine was based around the band, you know, a school EOS I mean I- I had
two or three quite close friends I think, erm, **anon** was quite a
EOS close friend and probably erm, **anon** or something, the artist,
who I quite liked- I can’t remember and I think some of the- some of
the people from primary school carried over into secondary school so
EOS there was a kind of known following, you know, when- once you kind
of got to EOS secondary school erm, and people either got along or
fell out but I suppose I just joined bands at that point, school bands
and local bands, and they became friends and they became people that
EOS socialised a bit more with as you got a little bit older EOS I
think so, and I played somewhere in Urmston, **anon** EOS why do I
remember it? Erm, I think because you- you were shouting so much that
you couldn’t speak afterwards EOS and you’re just hoar- you’re voice
was so hoarse EOS yeah, and I can’t think what garbage we played but
we must’ve played a lot of EOS I know you was EOS but I was actually
very proud of you playing football, cos I could never do that EOS oh
right, that’s good that EOS there was **anon** and, **anon** EOS I can
only ever remember about two people anyway EOS bet they played scout
huts and stuff like that EOS oh that, the drum skin, the painted drum
skin? it followed me down to **anon** I took it to **anon** and I
think I just had a big clear out one day and it got in the skip EOS I
really wish I hadn’t skipped stuff like that EOS but it- you know, I
think things were alright, you know, I- I was just more of a- a bit
more of a recluse and a loner I think EOS I’d quite enjoyed staying in
and playing records and- and stuff and, just having two or three quite
close friends and the music EOS I don’t- I just don’t think I was
particularly outgoing to kind of go crazy, you know, oh that’s it,
yeah EOS yeah, yeah, I’ve seen him, **anon** EOS oh I think I missed
**anon** I can remember **anon** EOS I- well, y- well, I suppose- I
suppose I did in a- in a- in a strange w- I suppose I had a favourite
teacher EOS and I had erm, a probably not so favourite teacher, my
favourite teacher- I did have a favourite teacher, erm, because he was
EOS I think it was **anon** EOS he was a Maths teacher but he just- it
sounds very silly- silly or stupid at that age, but he just came
across as very caring EOS he didn’t come across as erm, a kind of
teacher in a way EOS so I think- so I think I kind of liked him for-
for that reason EOS not particularly for the subjects he taught but
just because he seemed a caring bloke EOS oh they were, I mean that
Russian teacher was just, you know, a sadist wasn’t he EOS banging on
desks and throwing chalk at people and EOS pulling your hair and being
really quite obnoxious and nasty EOS it- it’s no wonder somebody took
a either a knife to him one of EOS a fist or something EOS because-
because they weren’t- they- they were EOS but it wasn’t over fun
either was it, I mean it was I suppose you were there kind of to study
and you towed the line EOS and it was kind of Victorian but, I suppose
the teachers who were there perhaps had grown up in a slightly
different era even to what we- we had done EOS and I suppose it, you
know, **anon** and **anon** now have a very EOS cause it’s a lot more
open and- was that the little short arse guy EOS he had glasses didn’t
he EOS what was that? oh they must’ve known Noel **anon** EOS I can’t
remember what I’m working- I’m working next week EOS it’s wri- it’s
written at home but EOS just come over with your amp and erm, we’ll
have a jam around or EOS not for the last two days I’ve not been there
EOS erm, but yeah, it has been busy, we’re moving buildings EOS in
four weeks EOS it’s seventeenth September EOS so that’s gonna be a bit
of a nightmare EOS well, it’s gonna be rented out to somebody else, so
we won’t have any kind of dealings to do there, so it’s gonna be EOS
very much a different job and EOS different vibe and erm different
building so it’s gonna be really weird I think EOS you’re away soon
aren’t you? who’s going, is it just you and **anon**? I’ve never been
there EOS what for the- just for the two of you for that EOS that’s
not- that’s not bad, three hundred quid for EOS you might spend half
your time just in the car EOS oh well, it seems pretty good if
they’ve- got a recomm- recommendation from it EOS that is so unfair
EOS just take plenty of books EOS what is it? have you even played
that connect four? I used to love that, I wanted a little travel
version of it, they had it in Sainsbury’s EOS it’s better than a
computer EOS I have bought a game but which one I bought EOS I bought
an arcade classic game, which had a few pacmans and space invader type
things on there EOS I’ve just made that clear Noel **anon** EOS erm,
and then I bought a zombie game, where you’re in this shopping mall
and you can just blast the hell out of a load of zombies EOS and then
there was a racing game which I thought **anon** would probably get
off on called ‘split second’ but, I’m waiting for that to come down to
twenty quid rather than forty cos EOS I’m not paying that EOS but I’m
not- I’m not paying forty pound for a game EOS I’ve been in- I’ve been
in it- in it but, erm, again their prices aren’t that low on some of
the new releases so EOS at some point EOS yeah, I think I did, yeah
EOS yeah, that was for **anon** wasn’t it EOS was it- it was set in a
house wasn’t it EOS did he know or google it EOS well if you turn it
on to google what do you think it would say, do you think it would- do
you think it EOS do you think it would come up and say EOS ‘this is
where Cluedo is set’ EOS I know you can get one but I’ve never seen it
EOS where was that? well, have you bought it? have you got an account
with Kiss online? I wish I had EOS I wish I had EOS I haven’t got an
account with anybody, Amazon, that’s the only account I’ve got but EOS
I- I- talking of old th- old things Noel **anon** there was a DVD on
Amazon called ‘Kate and Allie’ which you would not remember, it was
from nineteen eighty four, and it’s- it was set in America, it’s
about- and it had Susan Saint James in it, she was the like, top
actress in America and like, both of them were divorced, and had two
children each, and they were all- they had to sort of house share, and
it ran for about five years, and it was my favourite programme
throughout the eighties, erm, and they’ve got a box set in- ‘Kate and
Allie’ EOS and there’s a box set, erm, and it’s finally was released
in Europe erm, in February this year EOS and it’s fifty quid EOS for
the whole of this- this- this series, but you have to order it EOS and
I’m so tempted to EOS but I don’t know whether I find it funny, you
know after such a long time, but I kinda think I would, or I kinda
think, oh what the hell I’m just gonna blow fifty quid and s- see what
happens, you know what I mean EOS yeah I could maybe do that EOS and-
and- and see that I’ll type- I’ll type that in EOS what was that play
then like, that Monty Python play that you went to EOS was that any
good or was that just rubbish? oh yeah, that’s w- yeah, **anon** and-
**anon** and, erm **anon** have been there haven’t they? It’s
Australian EOS right, yeah, I’ve been in EOS well yeah, it was a bit
EOS summet kicking off in the corner EOS I’ve been in it just once
yeah EOS and it was- I mean I suppose on a Saturday night it’s gonna
be packed