 There is a problem with the Left channel between 02.06 and 02.20
meaning Rhys is much more difficult to hear during this period EOS
just count to three EOS one, two EOS one, two, three, one EOS yep EOS
one, two, three, is that working? EOS two, three EOS yep, that’s fine,
thank you EOS ah, that’s alright, ah, that’s alright, here, you were
talking about these cubes before, I’m not going off that for the time
being, EOS I’m gonna just talk about these cos **anon** has put the
numbers on those there, EOS oh yeah EOS so he’s done tho- you see that
one, this was a puzzle we got it was erm EOS that’s not right that EOS
yeah, it is, that’s- that’s right on there EOS oh yeah, I suppose it
is EOS so that was that one, so I think he’s done that- it took him
three days to do that but he’s erm, he just persevered and persevered
and that was it, and he’s done them all, so that was erm, that’s
pretty good, and the other thing is, erm, what was I gonna say, I’ve
got your- those ‘Kiss’ magazines for you, EOS ooh EOS about time too
and all EOS I was gonna say, mm, yeah EOS and there’s a DVD that I
bought from- EOS and what was that like? EOS oh it was- well, we
watched it last night, I put it on, erm, it was a concert that was
recorded for- in the MGM grand EOS that should’ve been on the
internet, it should’ve been streamed on the internet EOS yeah EOS and
the servers crashed apparently so they didn’t watch it, and erm, but
the concert went ahead, but there’s on- the must’ve only been about
four hundred people there EOS was there? EOS and it was- but it was
just invited guests, but anyway, it’s just a DVD EOS is it any good?
EOS aye, it’s alright but it’s- but again, it’s- it’s only like four
songs, so I mean it’s- EOS four songs?! EOS yeah EOS but it EOS that’s
not a concert EOS I know, but it was only like erm, a promotion thing
for the- for- I dunno if it was opening a hotel or- EOS you’ve been
ripped off Noel **anon** EOS it w- it was only two ninety-nine the-
the DVD, so we watched that anyway, so we did that, so I’ve put that
in the packet for you as well EOS oh thanks EOS so I’ve got that, so I
can trade you for your Classic Rock magazine EOS oh well, EOS so
you’ll be alright with that so have you been at Dad’s today? EOS yeah
EOS what’ve you been doing? EOS painting EOS have you? EOS did the
ceiling EOS right EOS ceiling is done and the s- that dado rail’s done
EOS right EOS un- undercoated, erm EOS - EOS then we moved the
furniture so we can get in and do some EOS stuff tomorrow and EOS
right EOS I mean, it’ll be done in a room and- EOS has he repaired the
ceiling? EOS yeah EOS he has EOS it’s been done, went to B and Q as
well, so EOS what did he- what did he need? Just to get some plaster
on it or has he sort of done it Problem with right channel EOS plaster
is fine he’s EOS right EOS **anon** done that flashing, then he’ll be-
be alright EOS oh has he been up on the- has- oh has he been on the
roof and done that? Right channel resumes EOS well, he was at some
point yeah, so if that’s been done then EOS he wants to come to our
house and d- I saw him in the pub you know the- EOS yeah, and he wants
to come to my house and all EOS he was in- EOS in- in fact, he came to
the **anon** last- last Thursday EOS and I knocked his head in EOS
yeah, and I said erm, ‘so are you coming to our house’ is it- oh he
said, ‘I’ve- I’ve- I been to your Dad’s to do his- to do his roof’ and
I says, ‘well, you want to come to our house and do ours’ and he went
‘oh, I’ve been really busy’ I thought, ‘you lazy bastard, you’ve done
nothing’ EOS yes, nothing EOS I thought, ‘he hasn’t done it’ so erm,
so that was erm- so that- so is Dad- did Dad say anything about
working with me tomorrow? EOS yeah, I think- erm, no, he’s not working
with you tomorrow I don’t think EOS right EOS I think **anon** gonna
carry on painting EOS oh right, I- EOS do some stuff EOS cause I- EOS
then I think he’s with you on Thursday or something EOS right, that’s
tomorrow EOS oh is it, Friday then EOS did he say Friday, he might
come down on Friday EOS Friday I think EOS right EOS but I mean like,
once that ceiling’s done, I mean there’s nothing to those walls in
that room EOS no EOS to be honest EOS cause he was saying about- when
he was saying about getting a- a new bed he was saying about moving
his old bed into there and I said, ‘you don’t want’- and getting
himself a four foot bed or something, and I said, ‘you don’t want to
do that, you just want- you just wanna, erm, use a bed that you’ve,
you know, use his old bed for him and buy a new bed for that EOS yeah
EOS for that room, so I’m sure he’ll do that eventually anyway EOS no,
I hope so EOS so he should be alright with that one so have you been-
are you working the rest of this week or are you off for- for the-
the- at all this week? EOS I’m working tomorrow and then I’m working
Friday and Saturday, off Sunday EOS right, are you working d- days
Saturday or evenings? EOS evenings EOS right cos I was gonna- I- I
think at some point I’ll have to try and get down t- town cos I wanna
go to that **anon** and what’s the other one? EOS I could maybe do
that during the day or something EOS yeah, but but are you working
during the day? EOS I’m not working ‘til five I think EOS right EOS I
think I’m working at five EOS just depends what time I get away cos I-
I won’t finish ‘til half one or something EOS oh EOS so I’ll have to
erm, we’ll have to have a- have to have a think- about- about going
over there cos with **anon** and **anon** away, we’ve got like a free
weekend, although, **anon** going to see erm, Les Miserables or
something is it, at erm, The Lowry EOS oh right EOS she’s going there
with erm, **anon** and **anon** they’re having like a girly night- a
girly night out so erm, hopefully might- might get away on Saturday so
that looks alright EOS mm, okay EOS so we’ll go at erm, we’ll just
have a- a quick these. Can you r- remember, yeah, where did you go to
school? It says on here come on with you, come on, I know exactly
where you went EOS well, secondary school Noel **anon** EOS yeah,
secondary school EOS well, **anon** oh dear EOS and where was and what
sorry? EOS oh dear EOS no they weren’t- weren’t the best days of your
life at- no, it was alright, I think I’d er- it says here, did you
ever get into trouble at school? EOS no, I was very good EOS unlike me
EOS unlike you, Noel **anon** EOS I was ver- I was very good at
school, and I think there was a lot of pressure from Mum and Dad,
well, certainly from Mum to do well, erm EOS at school? EOS yeah EOS
why? EOS why? cos I think **anon** had done well at secondary school,
so because I think she was classed as intelligent, I was expected to
follow suit, erm and I didn’t think I could erm, kind of do that well
really, and it really used to bother me, that I wasn’t intelligent
enough and I was really quite scared about not going to grammar school
EOS yeah EOS and going to a secondary school but, in the end of the
day I’ve got the qualifications and I suppose won’t, so I think there
was some- some pressure EOS yeah EOS not from outside or from the
school, I don’t think the sc- the school or friends or neighbours
really cared about anything but I think EOS I think it was Mum who-
for Mum it was important that you- or I think for me, my standard was-
was to study and do the right thing I think EOS yeah, I didn’t feel
any pressure at- EOS at school EOS no you didn’t, no EOS no I didn’t
at all I just- I just didn’t wanna go to **anon** EOS yeah EOS which
was- which was erm, I didn’t wanna go there so but I- I don’t recall
e- e- when we went to **anon** EOS well you never went EOS I did, I
did go to school but I mean, I- I missed the odd day and I think but,
I- I just erm, I d- I didn’t feel- feel pressure with **anon** I
suppose because she went- she went to the girls grammar and- and I
think she’d- but I- I always felt as though I was following in your
footsteps at school because all the teachers sorta knew you, so every
time I mentioned my name, they goes, ‘oh you the brother of- of- are
you **anon** brother?’ and then y- you know, but you were quite good
at school, so I mean, it- EOS I was good at- I was good at most things
and some stuff I wasn’t EOS yeah, whereas I didn’t- I didn’t sort of
like, I didn’t do any homework, as such, and I didn’t erm EOS I didn’t
sort of erm, I mean- I mean I went to lessons but I mean I- I didn’t
work- work as hard as probably I could’ve, I didn’t sort of, use my
full potential, so to speak EOS I think if somebody had actually
turned round and said, ‘it doesn’t really matter sometimes’ EOS yeah
EOS ‘and you can mess up and you don’t have to get great grades and
that’s still okay’ then I think that would’ve been a good thing, but
EOS yeah EOS it was kind of never really said so, I think you’d- I
just EOS I- EOS I just wanted to do well and I- I mean I didn’t mind
staying in and studying, I think, you know, I was perhaps a bit more
introvert than you EOS yeah, I don’t , but, yeah EOS in some respects
EOS see that’s it, I didn’t erm, I didn’t like the staying in,
studying bit, I’d rather be out playing foot- you know, playing
football or messing about with- with people so that’s erm- that was my
school days EOS well I think I preferred the books EOS yeah EOS rather
than the football, and the physical stuff, no EOS oh I couldn’t read,
I could- well, I could read but I didn’t bother EOS didn’t bother with
that one, I liked doing Maths but I mean that was erm, EOS that was-
that wasn’t too bad, so erm, I was gonna ask you another question then
I can’t remember what it was, cos erm, what was it about, wasn’t about
school, it was about something else EOS I was gonna do- oh yeah, how
was Leeds, when you went to Leeds? EOS we- EOS cause you just- with
**anon** EOS erm, Leeds was good, about half an hour before I met
**anon** she’d split up with her boyfriend EOS sh- oh I see EOS so
erm, that wasn’t a good thing, erm, but yeah it was good fun, we went
for dinner and- EOS where do you go- where do you go for your lunch?
EOS **anon** EOS is that just a ch- is- was that a chain a bars or is
that a restaurant or something or EOS it’s an Ir- Irish Wetherspoons
EOS oh right EOS cheap EOS is it? EOS yeah EOS or is it like one of
those EOS very ch- very cheap EOS one of th- EOS so we went there cos
we had no money EOS oh right, so is that one of those where you can
get eight- you know, two meals for two qu- eight quid or ten quid or
something? EOS one meal for about three pound fifty or something EOS
oh, bloody hell EOS so that was- that was good and had a walk round
Leeds EOS yeah EOS nice sunny, vibrant city EOS oh good EOS erm, EOS
did you get the train up there or coach? EOS caught the train EOS
yeah, how much is that now? EOS about fifteen pound EOS that’s not-
EOS fifteen pound an- an hour’s journey EOS that’s alright, it’s like
a bus service that isn’t it, didn’t- is- is it every hour or every
half hour or something? EOS every twenty minutes EOS yeah EOS so that
was good, EOS I remember that one EOS I enjoyed Leeds EOS so do you
prefer- what’s erm- do you prefer Manchester or Leeds as a city? cos
it’s- EOS as a city? EOS yeah EOS erm, well I don’t know Leeds- I
don’t know Leeds well enough EOS well you’ve been a few times now
haven’t you? EOS yeah, to know whether I’d- I’d prefer it as a city
EOS right EOS but I mean I think you could say that Manchester’s- most
people would say that Manchester outside of London, is erm, probably
the- the- the second capital of the UK EOS yeah EOS so many people
want to study here at University, so many people would come here for
work I think, erm, nightlife, social activity EOS mm EOS for a big
city, it’s very vibrant EOS yeah EOS you got all your quarters, from
the gay village to EOS the Chinese quarter, to the Northern quarter,
to expensive shops from Harvey Nichols to, little cafes and
restaurants and everything so it’s a place I think young people would
want to come EOS yeah EOS erm, and good transport links as well EOS I
quite like erm, getting the- go on EOS but I think- I think Leeds is-
is- is erm, kind of a clean and modern city as well EOS yeah EOS erm,
EOS I think yeah, I like going into- I mean I’ve never been into Leeds
but I mean I like getting the train, you know, when we’ve got the
train into Manchester from- from Urmston and you know, just had a-
like a Saturday night in there, I mean it’s not a late night for- for
us, cos I mean the last train back- train that’s back is what, quarter
past eleven or something so I mean, you’re not out all night but, you
know, like you say about going into the bars, there’s a lot of bars up
at Deansgate, and just have a- a few beers or a little restaurants in
there and, I mean it’s quite a good night out and it’s, I mean like
you say, I mean there’s so many people in there compared to EOS you
know, Urmston I suppose on a- on a Saturday and, I was gonna say as
well, that I don’t- I feel more threatened in Urmston going for a
drink then I do- then I do in the centre of Manchester EOS I don’t
think Manchester’s threatening at all EOS no I don’t, no, but I’m just
saying the amount of people that are in there, you know all having a-
having a few beers and, well it’s like at three in the morning I don’t
know, cos I never stay out that late EOS what, when something’s
kicking off? EOS yeah yeah it used to, when I was- yeah, that’s it,
half two in the morning when- what was that- what was that- I just
can’t think of that bar EOS that club EOS **anon**- there was **anon**
I don’t know if that’s still there, do you remember **anon**? EOS
that’s probably burnt down Noel **anon** EOS yeah, **anon** EOS I mean
somebody’s- somebody’s torched it I should think EOS **anon**-
**anon**, remember **anon** remember when we used to go in there so
that was erm, so that was erm, that was good, cos I was saying to you,
it’s- do you think that Ma- Manchester compared to **anon** where you
used to live, now that’s two different cities, cos **anon** more of a
cultural city than Manchester isn’t it EOS do I prefer it or EOS yeah
EOS do you want me just to compare them? EOS just where- wit- whe- EOS
if- if you had the choice now of living in- living in **anon** where
you used to live or in Manchester, or- or EOS erm, EOS you know, where
you live now EOS I think that is a really difficult question, because
I have a very big history down in **anon**, and there are things that
I miss down there, erm, it’s a tourist city it’s- it’s got money EOS
yeah EOS erm, I- I- I EOS you haven’t got Lostock have you EOS well
no, it’s- no you’ve- you- y- you- your main- your main employment
there is the University, that- one of the top ten Universities, and
there’s the international students bringing in money EOS right EOS
into a city, it’s a heritage city with a Roman archit- ar-
architecture EOS and there is a lotta tourists in- in **anon** though,
isn’t there EOS it- it- it- some money is constantly be- being brought
in EOS yeah EOS erm, developments are kept to a minimum, you know,
everything has to be rubber stamped with the council of listed
buildings and that, erm a v- a very bohemian city, erm, very small and
compact, I mean, you know, you haven’t got the EOS infrastructure like
Manchester or the- the vastness of choice, erm, but I would say you
also don’t get a lot of your social problems that you possibly would
in, you know, in- in a large- a large city EOS yeah EOS and perhaps
some run down areas, erm, around Manchester EOS mm EOS which you just
wouldn’t get in a place like **anon** EOS yeah, I suppose the thing
with **anon** is, I mean, because, I suppose, like holidays up there
we used to go to **anon** and stay on a farm and- and, you know, our
childhood was, I suppose our summer holidays, our childhood was- was
up there and I have very good memories of- of being at **anon** as
opposed to, you know, going into **anon** I mean I- I enjoyed it as a-
as a city, but I think EOS well would you’ve ever lived in **anon**?
If- EOS I suppose if- if- if I had the choice- if- if I’d have got
employment up there, it would’ve been a place that- that I would’ve
liked to have lived EOS but I always- I always actually g- going back,
when you lived there, I always thought that I knew **anon** better
than I knew Manchester, because I never re- I never really went into
Manchester in- I suppose in me early twenties I- I didn’t go- we
didn’t go night- clubbing or into the bars in Manchester, and I didn’t
work in Manchester so, I mean, it wasn’t a place that I actually went
a lot, whereas **anon**, because you know, we used to go down I
suppose with **anon** and **anon**, **anon**, and then you lived down
there and, we’d played, you know, like we played golf that time in
**anon** and we’d been to the theatre in **anon** and we- we been erm,
y- you know, t- to various places, I just thought that I knew **anon**
better than I knew Manchester, but I would- I would’ve lived there, I
don’t know what erm, whether I would’ve enjoyed it, I suppose it’s
difficult, I don’t know whether I’d’ve enjoyed it as much as I’ve- I
enjoyed the time I spent here, it’s diff- very difficult, to- to say,
but I mean I would’ve EOS I would’ve been happy staying there and I
did- I did enjoy the times that, that I went down when you were living
there, you know, I mean we sort of- EOS oh yeah, I- I enjoyed all
those moments as- as holidays down there EOS yeah EOS as a family,
erm, with their being countryside and a very different kinda- kind of
vibe to it EOS yeah, I was- I was saying the other day actually, do
you remem- do you remember cos you were saying about camping I was- I
was saying about erm, do you remember when- when we- when, erm,
**anon** had that caravan on the front lawn EOS oh yeah EOS and we s-
and we stayed in it that thunderstorm, and he let those fireworks off
outside EOS yeah EOS do you remember that, oh that was- I mean, I
don’t know how old we must’ve been then, must’ve been about bloody
nine or ten or something I think, and they had those- those bloody
aeroplane fireworks, do you have a- EOS I remember- EOS do y- do y- do
you remember those firew- the- the aeroplane ones that- that- that you
turned- set them off and th- and they just used to go ‘whoosh’ into
the air, and they’d go anywhere EOS yeah, I remember those EOS he was
setting them off outside our caravan and we were crapping it do you
not- cos- cos we didn’t know what it was cos we were so young, well
yeah EOS I was a so I perhaps didn’t know what it was or something,
but, EOS yeah but EOS and erm, w- and what’s erm- what’s that ch- I
think they- what was- **anon** as well, wasn’t there, when we used to
go out with EOS oh, **anon** and **anon** EOS yeah EOS yeah, but they
were good people, you know, they weren’t erm, they were nice people to
be around EOS yeah EOS but I mean I can’t- you know, f- for me to
have- I would- I would live in **anon** again, no problem, erm, but
the reason I can’t is because I’m now priced out of a market, but, you
know what, you have a choice, you can either live live in perhaps a
very nice area, EOS yeah EOS and not get too much out of a job or
something else and you have to weigh up your job, and your friends,
and where your family is, of a- of a bigger picture of maybe what life
is gonna EOS mm EOS gonna give you or what you’re gonna get out of it
EOS yeah EOS erm, and there are things that I- I- I miss a lot about
**anon** but there are things that I’ve gained by moving away from it
EOS yeah EOS erm, and as a city, I probably would not EOS wish to live
in Birmingham, I w- wouldn’t really wish to live in Liverpool EOS no
EOS erm, or possibly, you know, Edinburgh or whatever, erm, and I
think London is too big EOS mm EOS I mean it’s too expensive, but it’s
too big EOS yeah EOS whereas a place like Manchester is EOS it’s got a
lot of things going on EOS it’s got a lot of things going for it EOS
yeah, yeah, we had a good time in- me and **anon** went erm, went to
Leeds- well we went to that **anon**, **anon** or whatever you call it
EOS never heard of it EOS it’s- it’s up near, I dunno, it’s just on
the outskirts of Leeds, but it’s- I think it’s erm, Leeds’ only five
star hotel EOS oh EOS and we went and it was- cos it was our wedding
anniversary, which you forgot by the way, never mind EOS I did forget,
yeah EOS yeah, never mind EOS I never remember your annivers- EOS next
year, next year EOS there’s erm- oh I’ll tell you another thing, I
don’t know if you remembered, it was **anon** birthday today EOS oh
yeah, so it was- no it wasn’t, it’s tomorrow EOS oh is it tomorrow?
EOS yeah EOS oh good, me card’ll get there on time, EOS cos I sent a
card, did you send one, EOS oh well I thought, no EOS don’t think you
did EOS erm, no, but I did speak to **anon** and she did say it was
Thursday EOS oh did she EOS I was trying to get her- to buy- EOS get a
drum kit or something for **anon** or something EOS I’ll change the
calendar cos I had it for today, but that’s only cos Dad told me, he
says ‘I’ve sent a card’ s- he said- he said, ‘I’ve sent a card to
**anon**’ EOS well, good for him EOS no but he said that, no but he
said- he says, ‘I’ve sent a card to **anon** from everybody in
Manchester’ I thought, ‘thanks for telling me, A, you’ve sent a card,
and B you’ve-’ I mean EOS he was gonna do that for **anon** as well
EOS yeah but he could’ve said there was- that- that it was his
birthday EOS I said it was a very- I said I was a very good idea, and
carry on Dad EOS what, ‘from everybody in Manchester’ I thought he
should’ve just told me, I’d’ve sent me own card, I don’t wanna be part
of ‘everybody in Manchester’, anyway, I was saying about erm, the
hotel we stayed in EOS yeah EOS this five star hotel, I mean we’d
booked in, erm, for like a massage and- and us- use of the pool and
everything, and erm, but I think it was about sixty quid for each, for
the- for like- EOS what for the- for the night EOS for one night, but
you got erm, like I say, you got a spa treatment, you got a massage in
there, we got dinner, which was thirty quid a head anyway so EOS gosh,
that’s not bad EOS which was in there but erm, they t- they t- w- we
had a look on it, EOS the cheapest bottle of wine on their menu, was
thirty five quid EOS that’s terrible Noel **anon** EOS and they had
champ- they had champagne on the menu, three grand EOS did you buy it?
EOS yeah we- well EOS not the champagne but the EOS no, well we
actually- well we wanted a bottle of wine so we- so we thought well,
the cheapest EOS money to burn EOS is thirty five quid, erm, so- so we
had to have something, so I thought we’ll have that one, but erm, we
actually took a bottle of champagne with us, EOS so we drunk that in
the room before we- before we erm, before we went, so, well, before we
went down for dinner so that was- that was quite good, so we had a
good evening there, but erm, and then on the way back, I don’t know if
you, we went that’s- we went to Todmorden market, Todmorden and erm,
Howarth, Howarth is, erm, where Emily Bronte EOS oh aye EOS erm, oh
and the Bronte sisters EOS what’s that like? EOS it was alright, it’s
a bit tacky but, erm, there’s- there’s like a main, I suppose, their
main street which is just like up a hill, it’s- it’s a bit erm, like a
cobbled street, going up a EOS it’s diffi- it’s difficult to describe
what it’s like, like one of these Devon holiday villages, you know,
where the- the houses on both sides but like EOS the Hovis advert EOS
t- tacky shops I- I would call it selling- selling EOS garbage EOS
yeah, mugs, you know like w- How- Howarth mug and- and then these- and
erm, like, bric-a-brac and this, ooh, int- in fact there was one good
shop, I m- you’d’ve loved it, it was like, erm, s- selling memorabilia
and stuff like, you know EOS oh right, yeah EOS but they had- they had
erm, like some old, like old games, and they had like, Thunderbirds
annuals, and they had Doctor Who annuals and there was, erm, they’ve
got some, erm, like si- oh they had loads of like vinyl, and I had to
I was going through the y- you know, like sections EOS did you buy
anything? EOS no EOS oh, thanks EOS c- no but- EOS you should’ve got
that Thunderbirds book EOS nah, well it’s- too tight you see stuff in
there but I mean yeah but, I had a look, but it was all books, and it-
but it- I mean it was- it was a n- that- that was about the only sorta
shop I liked in- all the other ones are, you know, lots- lotsa cafes
trying to EOS sorta like out do each other with- f- for what they’re
selling for lunch and for their dinners and teas and coffees and- and
whatever else, but erm, I could- it was- we didn’t stay too long
there, coup- couple of hours is long enough but we just had a- a
wander up the high street and- and there’s like erm, I suppose a not a
woollen museum, but you know these places that sell tweed jackets and
local brew and things like that, so we- we nipped in there and and
just had a look around and got summet from- went the tourist
information centre, got a map, went round the churchyard where the
Bronte sisters were- were buried and EOS at least you’ve done some
cultural stuff EOS sort, cultural- yeah EOS yeah, that’s- that’s about
my limit, in fact we walked into the park and the- and there’s a map
of the park that goes, ‘you are here’, and we looked at the map and we
went, ‘I can’t be’ EOS no, can’t be arsed EOS ‘walking down here,
shall we go’ EOS yeah, so we, so we sort of, we sort of left there,
and then we went to Todmorden but they had erm, they had that like a
some stalls on there selling EOS all lo- well not local stuff, but
like olives and- and sun dried tomatoes and bloody, pickled garlic,
and all that sort of salady stuff and then there was a- another store
selling, bloody home made pies and, a bit- bit better than Urmston
market, you know, if you’ve wanna buy a plug at Urmston EOS yeah EOS
that’s about- that’s about- EOS yeah, or some- EOS bout your limit
really isn’t it EOS some pyjamas EOS yeah, yeah, buy- buy summet from
Marks and Spencers, yeah you’ll be alright, so erm- EOS what was your
friendship group like as a- as a child then? EOS my friends at school,
at school, I suppose- I suppose **anon** shouldn’t hear this but- EOS
well you were friends with **anon** weren’t you? EOS eh EOS you-
weren’t you friends with **anon**? EOS yeah, I was gonna say, I me- I-
it- I suppose I suppose I’d’ve been seventeen, eighteen may- maybe a
bit younger than that- than that and there was **anon** EOS mm EOS and
there was **anon** as- EOS yeah EOS as it was and erm, EOS I don’t
know his- whether he still lives up there, there’s **anon** do you
remember **anon** EOS I’ve not heard that name EOS you wouldn’t know-
no, **anon**, there was John Ward **anon** EOS yeah, I’ve heard that
name EOS right- it- I don’t- I’ll tell you- I’ll tell you a- it- I’ll
tell you a story about **anon**, he’s do you kn- do you remember
somebody called **anon** EOS yeah EOS cause he- apparently he’s not
very- he’s in- he was in hospital not long back with some alcoholic
problems EOS really EOS which is a bit of a shame cos he was nice
**anon**, EOS mm EOS but, I think erm, I- I don’t know he- I think he
sort of ended up living on his own, whether he’s in a flat or
something I don’t know whether he ever got married or was divorced or
something but I- he’s- he ended up coming in **anon** a lot EOS oh
right, yeah EOS so erm, but anyway I heard from, well, it was **anon**
brother, **anon** that- that send us- send us a text saying that
**anon** was in hospital with some EOS oh dear EOS it’s a shame really
cos I mean he can only be what- how old will he be, forty-nine, fifty
EOS mm EOS you know, I mean it’s- it’s no age at all, although I know
quite a few- well I know three or four people that have died through
alcoholic, bloody EOS mmhmm EOS problems, but yeah my childhood was, I
mean I suppose that that was spent down, EOS like you say, **anon**
EOS and erm, with **anon** and, erm, there was **anon**- **anon**-
**anon**, **anon**, erm, who was the lad who used to live opposite? I
can’t remember- I can’t remember who he is now, I’ll come to him in a
minute EOS who? EOS **anon** EOS **anon** EOS that was- that was one,
**anon**, and we just used to, I suppose there’s nothing really to do
EOS mm EOS erm, we went to the, erm, **anon** youth club a few times
erm, but again you see, the trouble with that- that- that, again,
there’s- there’s- there’s quite a few rough EOS yeah EOS people for
in- went in there from like I suppose it not the coun- oh I mean, you
know, if you say ‘council estate’ it sounds really snobby EOS yeah EOS
but I mean it’s- EOS yeah EOS it’s- it- it- you know, there’s people
like that, so I mean it wasn’t actually it was alright but I mean if
any of them went you sort of felt a bit intimidated by it- by various
things but, and then at- at school I mean, I suppose, some of me
friends- I didn’t really have that many- I didn’t really have many-
lots of friends, EOS I mean there was **anon**, but again he- he used
to live near us, **anon**, who used to live near us, EOS you used to
have more friends than me though EOS yeah, but I suppose some of that
was, erm- EOS you were more outgoing I think EOS yeah but I mean, I
used to play football for- when I first started at- so that’s a team
of people isn’t it EOS suppose so EOS so yeah, you got- you got eleven
to start with EOS yeah EOS and I- I- I suppose erm, I suppose maybe I
did, maybe I did go out a bit more in the evening, but I mean it
wasn’t- I suppose it was more hanging round the street, then- then-
then doing anything you know, it wasn’t, like o- you know, other than
Saturdays playing football ‘til I packed that in EOS cause I used to
smoke in the bike sheds and that was- that was the other social
calendar, wasn’t it, yeah EOS was yeah, well it was for you EOS who’d
you meet round- round the bushes, having a fag EOS or the top of the
road Noel **anon** EOS yeah so erm, so that was my social- social
events EOS I think most of mine was based around the band, you know, a
school band EOS yeah EOS I mean I- I had two or three quite close
friends I think, erm, **anon** was quite a EOS close friend and
probably erm, **anon** or something, the artist, who I quite liked-
EOS **anon**, where did he live? Can you remember where he lived? EOS
I can’t remember and I think some of the- some of the people from
primary school carried over into secondary school so EOS mm EOS there
was a kind of known following, you know, when- once you kind of got to
EOS yeah EOS secondary school erm, and people either got along or fell
out but I suppose I just joined bands at that point, school bands and
local bands, and they became friends and they became people that you
then EOS yeah EOS socialised a bit more with as you got a little bit
older EOS cos you played a couple of- I mean didn’t you play the civic
centre with your band and hats? EOS I think so, and I played somewhere
in Urmston, **anon** EOS where was that? Did you play there? EOS I did
EOS I don’t remember that, I remember the- EOS I do EOS do you EOS yep
EOS go on why, why do you remember that? EOS why do I remember it?
Erm, I think because you- you were shouting so much that you couldn’t
speak afterwards EOS and you’re just hoar- you’re voice was so hoarse
EOS what, cheering you on? EOS yeah, and I can’t think what garbage we
played but we must’ve played a lot of EOS yeah but I used to, you see,
that- EOS loud garbage EOS you see that- that- you see that was it you
see, I was- I was very proud, and I’ve said this to you before, I was
very proud of you being in a band, and- EOS I know you was EOS and the
fact that y- y- you know, you play- EOS but I was actually very proud
of you playing football, cos I could never do that EOS ah, I mean
that’s- that’s- I suppose that’s brothers for you isn’t it, one’s good
at one thing, one’s good at the other, but I mean I suppose, deep down
I- I don’t know, I just used to like going to watch you play and I-,
you know, telling people say, ‘oh, me, you know, you know, me
brother’s in a band, come and watch’ cos I mean, I remem- remember
seeing you, like I say, at the **anon**, and- and **anon** and even
when you were in your band in **anon** tha- that was erm I have still
got your CD up there, EOS oh right, that’s good that EOS aye, we’ll
show **anon** the pictures after EOS so we’ll erm, so I remember that,
so who else- I- who was- was it **anon** that was in your band EOS
there was **anon** and, **anon** EOS don’t remember that one EOS erm,
erm EOS who was the guy who pl- who was the lead guitar at the front?
EOS can’t remember EOS can you remember his name, that m- was that
**anon**? I can’t remember his name EOS I can only ever remember about
two people anyway EOS yeah EOS bet they played scout huts and stuff
like that EOS whatever happened to your drums? What happened to your-
what happened to your dr- what happened to your drum skin? EOS oh
that, the drum skin, the painted drum skin? EOS yeah EOS it followed
me down to **anon** I took it to **anon** and I think I just had a big
clear out one day and it got in the skip EOS ahh EOS I really wish I
hadn’t skipped stuff like that EOS I bet, yeah, yeah EOS but it- you
know, I think things were alright, you know, I- I was just more of a-
a bit more of a recluse and a loner I think EOS yeah EOS I’d quite
enjoyed staying in and playing records and- and stuff and, just having
two or three quite close friends and the music EOS yeah EOS I don’t- I
just don’t think I was particularly outgoing to kind of go crazy, you
know, EOS and I, like I say, I mean I didn’t have- I didn’t have
loadsa friends but they were- they were just sort of EOS I think- I
think in later days I think **anon** I mean I spent a lot of time
with- with **anon** if you remember, and then he moved up to bloody
Hebden Br- not Heb- somewhere up there, Hebden Bridge or something he
met- he met **anon** who was about twenty years older than him EOS oh
that’s it, yeah EOS with a- with two kids, which erm, when you’re
twenty I suppose that was appealing for him EOS yeah EOS you know,
which is- but erm, he erm, I dunno, we lost touch then, and I’ve- I’ve
not- I’ve seen his brother a few times, he lives in- EOS yeah, yeah,
I’ve seen him, **anon** EOS no, his younger brother, erm, **anon** EOS
oh I think I missed **anon** I can remember **anon** EOS well **anon**
was your age EOS yeah EOS **anon** was the year younger than me, and
then there was **anon** who was a different- who had a different Fa-
in fact I think they were all different Father’s, I don’t know, but,
he had a- he had drugs prob- he’s another one that had drugs problems
so erm, that was- that was that I suppose, erm, did you have a
favourite teacher at school? Going on about school no EOS I- well, y-
well, I suppose- I suppose I did in a- in a- in a strange w- I suppose
I had a favourite teacher EOS and I had erm, a probably not so
favourite teacher, my favourite teacher- I did have a favourite
teacher, erm, because he was very caring EOS who was that? EOS I think
it was **anon** EOS oh, I don’t remember him EOS he was a Maths
teacher but he just- it sounds very silly- silly or stupid at that
age, but he just came across as very caring EOS yeah EOS he didn’t
come across as erm, a kind of teacher in a way EOS so it w- eh, go on
EOS so I think- so I think I kind of liked him for- for that reason
EOS yeah EOS not particularly for the subjects he taught but just
because he seemed a caring bloke EOS I was gonna say, cos quite a few
of the teachers at school were quite, I think, Victorian, cos they
were older weren’t they, it was- EOS oh they were, I mean that Russian
teacher was just, you know, a sadist wasn’t he EOS yeah EOS banging on
desks and throwing chalk at people and EOS yeah, and he- EOS pulling
your hair and being really quite obnoxious and nasty EOS yeah, and
then- and then there was- EOS it- it’s no wonder somebody took a
either a knife to him one of them, or EOS you know, EOS good school
EOS a fist or something EOS someone probably it- yeah EOS because-
because they weren’t- they- they were EOS he was quite- I mean this is
it- cos I mean, when **anon** says about her school and they used to
call them by, you know like, **anon** or **anon** or **anon**
something, I mean ours was just, surname- it was just your surname
they used to EOS mm EOS but they- they- they- I don’t know, they- it
was very, I think disciplined was- was the word, I mean it was a boys’
grammar school, I suppose, it wasn’t mixed or anything but it was- it
was just very Victorian in its- in its outlook at school and, you
know- EOS but it wasn’t over fun either was it, EOS no, it wasn’t, no
EOS I mean it was I suppose you were there kind of to study and you
towed the line EOS yeah EOS and it was kind of Victorian but, I
suppose the teachers who were there perhaps had grown up in a slightly
different era even to what we- we had done EOS well that’s it I mean-
EOS and I suppose it, you know, **anon** and **anon** now have a very
different education EOS oh yeah, I mean the- EOS cause it’s a lot more
open and- EOS I think- I think like you say, I think the schools tend
to be a bit more- I think they treat you more as people than they-
than they ever did when- when- when we were at grammar EOS you know, I
mean, like you say, you were saying about your favourite teacher, I
think my favourite teacher was a PE teacher, cos I didn’t, you know,
it was like PE EOS yeah EOS wa- wa- wasn’t sort of like ball and ch-
it’s not- wasn’t work, if you know what I mean, it was EOS was that
the little short arse guy EOS there was only- there was only- they had
a he gave me EOS it’s true EOS I remember he gave me some lines once
EOS he had glasses didn’t he EOS I remember he give me some lines
once, and I did them, I did them with that self-carbonating paper, do
you remember, Mum had some self- carbonating paper that you just- EOS
what was that? EOS well you just wrote on it and it would carbonate
on- onto the next sheet- EOS oh they must’ve known Noel **anon** EOS
oh he did yeah, cos he caught me and it wasn’t- EOS wasn’t- wasn’t
hard t- to notice that one but erm, we did that and then, erm, I can’t
remember what I had to write now, but I remember- I remember him but I
just- I just quite enjoyed, like, PE, cos I suppose that was the
football bit, and I just couldn’t cover the- cover the proper subjects
couldn’t do- couldn’t do them at all so when are we- just erm EOS I’ll
have to come round to yours again with me- with me guitar and me amp,
like we said, we’ll try and do a bit a- are you working- what you
working next week, I know what you’re saying about EOS I can’t
remember what I’m working- EOS you don’t- EOS I’m working next week
EOS no, I’ll just- EOS it’s wri- it’s written at home but EOS give us
erm- EOS just come over with your amp and erm, we’ll have a jam around
or something EOS if you give us a shout about that we’ll- we’ll try
and have a- we’ll try and have a- have a look at that, have you been
busy at work or not too bad EOS not for the last two days I’ve not
been there EOS oh, you’ve not been in have you EOS erm, but yeah, it
has been busy, we’re moving buildings EOS right, when d- when d- they
expect that to be- EOS in four weeks EOS is that when you’re moving?
EOS it’s seventeenth September EOS oh right a- EOS so that’s gonna be
a bit of a nightmare EOS yeah, are they closing the other one
completely? EOS well, it’s gonna be rented out to somebody else, so we
won’t have any kind of dealings to do there, so it’s gonna be EOS yeah
EOS very much a different job and EOS yeah EOS different vibe and erm
different building so it’s gonna be really weird I think EOS oh right
EOS you’re away soon aren’t you? EOS yeah, we go away on the erm, oh,
is it ninth of September EOS where to? EOS we’re going to erm,
Portugal and don’t ask me the- the somebody asked me- somebody today
asked me the- asked me the name of the resort, and it’s summet like,
‘Cos’ or summet- summet like that, I can’t remember EOS who’s going,
is it just you and **anon**? EOS just me and **anon** yeah, cos
**anon** and **anon** have- well, **anon** been to Corfu with- with
**anon** and EOS mmhmm EOS **anon** Dad, and then **anon** been away
with **anon** and then they’re b- going to V EOS V EOS this weekend
EOS yeah EOS so, I mean there’s just no- I mean th- we- we couldn’t’ve
had a summer holiday this year with them anyway because of all the
different things that were going on, so we just didn’t have time to do
it that way so I mean, me and **anon** said ‘well, we’ll try and book
a week when- when they’re back at- at Uni or- or back at school’ EOS
I’ve never been there EOS well we haven’t, that’s one of the reasons
why I picked Portugal, or- because there’s that and- and Greece, I
wouldn’t of minded going to Greece cos I mean **anon** and **anon**
have been EOS mm EOS and you’ve been and that was another one, we said
that or Portugal EOS so, it was just a- a matter of, ‘well, where do
you wanna go’ so we- we sort of just went on the internet, and erm,
look- looked up some apartments, found an apartment and then **anon**-
we booked some flights, it’s not too hard, it’s about- EOS oh wow EOS
think it’s about six hundred- EOS it’s about six hundred quid EOS what
for the- just for the two of you for that EOS think so yeah but- EOS
that’s not- that’s not bad, three hundred quid for EOS yeah, but I
think it’s cos you go out of school holidays EOS yeah EOS then it’s-
you know, it- it- it works out that little bit cheaper but we’re not
gonna- w- we thought about hiring a car, for n- you know, to drive up,
but I- I don’t know, cos **anon** had a look and even that’s summet
like two and half hundred quid or three hundred quid for the- for the
week, and you think, ‘well’ EOS right EOS you know, if you got a
transfer for- for seventy quid that gives you two hundred and fifty
quid t- EOS yeah EOS to maybe get some taxis or something and EOS mm
EOS yeah EOS and the fact that we’re only going for a week, well I
mean you’d- you’d spend the first three or four days looking round
the- EOS you might spend half your time just in the car EOS there’ll
be trips won’t there, going around? EOS oh, the- we- well yeah because
I mean they’re always have trip to the nearest EOS yeah EOS you know,
erm, I d- I dunno, they either go to an aqua park or they go to EOS
yeah, other cities and stuff EOS you know, some- s- some building or-
or like you say, the next- the next town- town along the- the beach
EOS yeah EOS so there’s always that so we- we- we decided that we’ll
probably just get a transfer to the- to the resort and then just see
how it goes, but, **anon** and **anon**, you know **anon** and
**anon** who stayed in Barcelona? EOS yeah EOS they we- they- they’ve
been to this resort, well, about six years on the trot or something,
so EOS oh well, it seems pretty good if they’ve- EOS so we’ve sort of
like took a recommendation EOS got a recomm- recommendation from it
EOS yeah, so we’re gonna do- we’re gonna do that but- EOS that is so
unfair EOS but this is our- this’ll be our- our first holiday without
either **anon** or **anon** EOS oh EOS just me and **anon**, so that
should be- that should be- that should be interesting shouldn’t it?
EOS we’ll get- we’ll get bored after three days EOS just take plenty
of books EOS be like that, oh yeah, bought some books, we went to
charity shop and bought some books, when we were- when we were away at
this- this weekend, oh I tell you what else we- we- we bought, have
you ever done that- that race night? EOS yeah, we did- we did one last
Friday EOS those- you did- you did- well it’s- it was funny because it
was **anon** that, erm, that mentioned it, and we went to this charity
shop while we were out and they’d got a brand new EOS mm EOS box of-
of this race night for two pound ninety nine, so I thought, oh for
that, I th- EOS yeah EOS what is it? EOS well it’s- it’s where you’ve
got erm, they have erm, like a DVD of horse races EOS oh, okay EOS th-
they have like ten or twelve or, I dunno, how many horse races on EOS
and they give you a- all the- all the little slips, and y- you bet on
who you think’s gonna win EOS oh okay EOS so they’ve- they’ve got like
at the first race might be, I dunno, the, you know, the Dean Morris
handicap or something and it’ll have all the horses on it, and it’ll
say favourites this two, or whatever, and then you just- you just bet
on it, and if yours wins or comes second or something, y- you win the
money EOS it’s like monopoly money as well with it EOS oh, okay EOS
it’s good EOS oh yeah, that, yeah, yeah, they- they put like erm, I
mean s- some places have used it for- for like fundraising EOS yeah
EOS haven’t they, you know, like, we’ve been to one at the scouts EOS
where they- where they do it and- and you know, you bet real money on
it, put a quid on- on a race, and they use it for fundraising, there’s
quite a few people do it for that, but it’s just something
interesting, I mean you can have a- a few people over, few beers and
some snacks, and, I mean that’s what- that’s what you did wasn’t it?
EOS yeah, yeah, it was good EOS mm EOS and erm, you know, have a few
snacks and just- just have a- have an evening of it, but erm, who- who
won the most money when you did it? EOS we didn’t do it in the end but
I did alright, erm, one of mine was something like six to one, eight
to one, and I put three hundred on so I got like quite a bit back so
EOS wow EOS three hundred, yeah, can you imagine that in your own
money EOS yeah, I know EOS but you’ve got a thousand p- I- I- we- we
opened the box and we got like a thousand pound note or something, EOS
yeah EOS but erm, I- I just think it’d be quite erm, quite fun to do
that would EOS quite good EOS we had erm, I remember years ago we had
erm, I had a little games night here for different- just for diff- I-
I mean, this is for adults and we had like erm, wiggly worms EOS have
you seen- as- as one of the games we did, and there was- there was a
few like, really daft silly games but I mean Time EOS we- we sorta
split people into teams EOS mm EOS or we did girls and boys, I can’t
remember now but, erm, and we had the- all these like little daft-
daft g- EOS I mean it was actually quite good fun because I mean, me
Dad loves like playing daft games as well EOS yeah EOS same as you
like going to- EOS have you even played that connect four? EOS oh, I
love connect four EOS do you? EOS yeah, well I’m gonna- EOS I used to
love that, I wanted a little travel version of it, they had it in
Sainsbury’s EOS yeah, you have to just- EOS it’s better than a
computer EOS got one in there, that and tetris, I like tetris, cos
that’s a similar sorta game isn’t it EOS mm EOS for- you have that on
erm R game boy EOS game boy that was it, yeah, I remember now that’s
right, I’ve got one of them upstairs, got **anon** gameboy colour or
something EOS have you? EOS yeah, haven’t got tetris on it, but erm,
what was the other game you were saying about erm- EOS pacman EOS
yeah, oh, but they’re all on like you’re arcade games aren’t they,
have you- have you bou- have you got your Xbox sorted out yet? EOS erm
EOS or did you buy a game for that? EOS I have bought a game but which
one I bought EOS I bought an arcade classic game, which had a few
pacmans and space invader type things on there EOS yeah EOS retro
games EOS do you play it? do you play it? EOS I’ve just made that
clear Noel **anon** EOS erm, and then I bought a zombie game, where
you’re in this shopping mall and you can just blast the hell out of a
load of zombies EOS and then there was a racing game which I thought
**anon** would probably get off on called ‘split second’ but, I’m
waiting for that to come down to twenty quid rather than forty cos EOS
I’m not paying that EOS is that a new one then is it? EOS yeah EOS oh
right EOS but I’m not- I’m not paying forty pound for a game EOS no,
it’s ridiculous that isn’t it, have you been in Game in Manchester
then? Ask for a second hand one EOS I’ve been in- I’ve been in it- in
it but, erm, again their prices aren’t that low on some of the new
releases so EOS oh right, oh we’d- EOS at some point EOS we got erm,
you got- you got erm, that erm, guitar for that erm, guitar hero from
there didn’t you, did you get- EOS yeah, I think I did, yeah EOS yeah,
a few years back EOS yeah EOS and erm, and a game I think it was, a
second hand one EOS yeah, that was for **anon** wasn’t it EOS that’s-
that’s right yeah, yeah EOS mm EOS that was it EOS yeah, s- saying
about erm, I forgot what I was gonna say then, I was gonna say
something about erm, about another game we played on our games night,
and I can’t- I can’t remember what it was, there was wiggly worms and
there was another one it’s- EOS hungry hippos EOS eh? EOS hungry
hippos EOS hungry hi- oh that’s- that’s a good game as well, hungry
hippos, but I’ve got- I’ve got ups- I’ve got erm, Kerplunk EOS mm,
that’s good EOS erm, you were saying about connect four, I haven’t got
that upstairs but erm, I can’t remember what we were playing the other
day, it wasn’t Ke- oh I tell you what, that’s one- another thing that
reminded me, Cluedo, it- there was a question in the quiz, in the pub,
he says, ‘where was- where was Cluedo set?’ have you any idea where
Cluedo was set? EOS no EOS and I t- I- EOS was it- it was set in a
house wasn’t it EOS oh it’s- oh it’s set in, yeah, it’s set in this
like stately home or something, but I text **anon** EOS did he know or
google it EOS ‘can y- can y- can you tell me where, erm, where Cluedo
was set’ cos it’s under the- we’ve got it under the cabinet in the- in
the hall and he- and he looked through and he put EOS ‘it’s- it’s a,
erm, Tudor manor’ or something, I went, ‘no, look, it’s like, set in a
Tudor manor’ EOS ‘it’s not the name of it’ yeah, it doesn’t say- I
don’t know how they- how anybody knows it, cos it doesn’t say anywhere
on the box EOS mm EOS or in the instructions, where it’s set, and it’s
Arlington Hall EOS mm EOS so just remember that for your quiz, summet-
EOS well if you turn it on to google what do you think it would say,
do you think it would- do you think it EOS what, Cluedo? EOS do you
think it would come up and say EOS well it might- EOS ‘this is where
Cluedo is set’ EOS it might do yeah, Wikipedia EOS yeah, it’ll be on
Wikipedia EOS be on- be on there won’t it EOS someone could’ve made
that up though if it doesn’t say EOS I- but this- this is what I
thought, I thought I wonder if somebody has just made- just made that
up, because it doesn’t say on the box EOS no EOS or whether it says on
the- on the later ones I mean I- I don’t erm, I don’t- I don’t know so
erm, I was gonna say as well yeah, about erm, different games you can
get a ‘Kiss’ monopoly, have you seen that? EOS I know you can get one
but I’ve never seen it EOS yeah, I saw it- I saw it on erm EOS where
was that? EOS might’ve been on kiss online or something EOS well, have
you bought it? EOS no EOS why not? EOS no I just thought cos it was
probably about two hundred dollars or something EOS have you got an
account with Kiss online? EOS no, have you? I bet you have EOS I wish
I had EOS I bet you have EOS I wish I had EOS ah EOS I haven’t got an
account with anybody, Amazon, that’s the only account I’ve got but EOS
I- I- talking of old th- old things Noel **anon** there was a DVD on
Amazon called ‘Kate and Allie’ which you would not remember, it was
from nineteen eighty four, and it’s- it was set in America, it’s
about- and it had Susan Saint James in it, she was the like, top
actress in America and like, both of them were divorced, and had two
children each, and they were all- they had to sort of house share, and
it ran for about five years, and it was my favourite programme
throughout the eighties, erm, and they’ve got a box set in- EOS and
what was it called? EOS ‘Kate and Allie’ EOS oh, I don’t know EOS and
there’s a box set, erm, and it’s finally was released in Europe erm,
in February this year EOS right EOS and it’s fifty quid EOS bloody
hell EOS for the whole of this- this- this series, but you have to
order it from America EOS oh right EOS and I’m so tempted to EOS but I
don’t know whether I find it funny, EOS yeah EOS you know after such a
long time, but I kinda think I would, or I kinda think, oh what the
hell I’m just gonna blow fifty quid and s- see what happens, you know
what I mean EOS you can see if it’s on youtube first EOS yeah I could
maybe do that EOS mm, and see if you like it EOS and- and- and see
that I’ll type- I’ll type that in EOS do they have full- do- do they
have full episodes on youtube, or is it just mainly- EOS sometimes,
sometimes it’s just snippets EOS yeah EOS but EOS I’ve never really
been on youtube that much EOS mm EOS it’s f- it’s funny you saying
about erm, not being as funny as it used to, we’ve erm, we got ‘Life
of Brian’ you know Monty Python EOS yeah, EOS I don’t know if you’ve
ever seen it EOS yeah, I have EOS but we- we- I think- I think I hype
stuff up too much EOS cause I’m going, ‘ah, it’s great, it’s great,
gotta watch this, **anon** it’s dead funny’ and but when you put it
on, then **anon** and **anon** are sat there like that EOS what was
that play then like, that Monty Python play that you went to see? EOS
oh that Spamalot, yeah that was EOS was that any good or was that just
rubbish? EOS well, that was- that was a mixed bag of- of like erm, I
don’t know if you’ve seen any Monty Python, but Monty Python- EOS just
the life of Brian EOS there was Monty Python and the Holy Grail, Life
of Brian, and erm, EOS Monty Python live at Drury Lane, I think
they’re- they’re- they’re like the main ones, and they’re- and it was
written by Eric Idle, I think Eric Idle wrote Spamalot, he was one of
Monty Python, so he’s put a lot the, sort of ‘in-jokes’ in this EOS mm
EOS and it’s- and it’s- it’s run a bit more like the Holy Grail EOS mm
EOS sort of storyline EOS right EOS of it but- but so I th- you’ve-
you’ve- you’ve got to know quite a few of the in j- you’ve- you-
you’ve- you’ve got to have watched the DV- the- the film I think, to
really enjoy it, although there’s- there’s certain things in it that
we thought **anon**, you know, he’d like that, and then when **anon**-
you know, would find that funny EOS yeah EOS and different things but
it was- it wasn’t rib tickling EOS no EOS it wasn’t like, belly laugh
out loud a minute, EOS no EOS all the way through it, but there was
some, there were some bits in it that you thought, that’s, you know,
that was quite funny, and it was good entertainment, but we went- we
went in erm, it was good entertainment for- for an afternoon, and we
went with **anon** and **anon** so I mean that was, it’s just nice,
and we had- we went in erm, Walkabout EOS before- do you know where-
do you know where- opposite EOS oh yeah, that’s w- yeah, **anon** and-
**anon** and, erm **anon** have been there haven’t they? It’s
Australian EOS have they, I’ve nev- I’ve ne- I’ve never been, EOS mm
EOS yeah, well that’s it you see EOS yeah EOS I’ve only heard of that
on rock radio EOS right, yeah, I’ve been in EOS cause they go on
about, sometimes, erm, they have like pre- pre concert parties there
and erm, so, we’ve never been in so- so **anon** says, ‘oh go on, have
a go in Walkabout’ and we went in there, and I’ve gotta admit, it’s a
bit of a shit hole isn’t it EOS well yeah, it was a bit EOS I mean,
the seats are r- have you ever been in? EOS only the one in Leeds EOS
oh, th- this, I mean it’s- is it- I don’t know exactly- is it like
just a cheap and cheerful place t- to drink EOS yeah, EOS and are- is
it- do they have rooms there or something, is there places you can
stay? EOS I dunno EOS I don’t know, but the s- you know, we sat on
these seats and you thought, they’ve been ripped, and the, you know,
I’m not saying the floor was sticky but, it wasn’t quite as bad as
that but EOS summet kicking off in the corner EOS y- you thought, no,
this is- this is not- have you been in- did you say you’d been in it?
EOS I’ve been in it just once yeah EOS that’s about enough EOS and it
was- I mean I suppose on a Saturday night it’s gonna be packed isn’t
it EOS yeah, but yeah, I suppose it- I suppose that by- but it’s funny
you said about Australian because I remember, on rock radio, they were
saying about free, I dunno, free beers or something or, you know, come
in fancy dress and you- you can have a bar tab or something like that,
I can’t- I can’t actually remember, but it was actually erm, I- I
don’t know, I didn’t quite- I didn’t, it wasn’t busy but I just
thought I wouldn’t, it’s not the sorta place I’d erm, HELLO