 Yeah. Can you just count to three please. One, two, three. Yeah. Ok
that’s great. When you’re ready. Ok Arnold **anon**. I’ll kick off-
we’ll kick off with you shall we? Your best or funniest memory. Best
or funniest memory from when I was young. When you were young. Can you
remember that far back? w- h- how young are we talking about here?
Again it depends really on how far back you can remember . Yeah, I
think the best- probably the best memory I have of- of being young is-
is Christmas time when all the family used to get together in those
days we- we always had all our aunts and uncles and cousins round on
Christmas day and- and erm- we- w- there wasn’t an awful lot of money
but erm we used to have quite a big s- slap up meal at lunchtimes and
lots of games and lots of fun. No television of course in those days
so yeah that’s probably the best memory I’ve got from being young. How
young were you then? When you did- when you did change? I would think
that was from being- from as early as I can remember being through-
going through to being about twelve. Something like EOS So your life
changed soon after you’ve met me? Yeah, yeah, yeah. But erm a- as- as
people grew older they didn’t want to- families got bigger as well.
They did- th- they didn’t get together the same. Up to that age I erm-
I think my Christmases were very similar in that people came to us for
a Christmas lunch. But because the erm, accomodation that we had at
the time was a bit cramped all the children went into the back room
and the adults were in the main dining room cos that’s when we lived
at the laundry. We had a chinese laundry in those days. And the- the
front room was shop. It was where we did the ironing, stored the
laundry that had been EOS And the middle room was the living room
where we did everything EOS And the back room was the stove room.
There was a coal fired stove with flat irons against it. But there was
a big table in there as well. So that’s where the kids sat to have
their Christmas dinner. But it was still good fun and happy times. How
many of you? In total people- oh- well there was- three six erm I- I
can’t think of it. Two sisters at the time **anon** and **anon**,
myself. **anon** wasn’t with us then. **anon** was an after thought. I
think my mum thought she was going to get a new washing machine for
Christmas you know. She got **anon** instead. Erm then there’d be my
three cousins **anon**, **anon**. You’ve met **anon** haven’t you? and
there’d be my grandad. Auntie **anon**, mum, dad, uncle **anon** and
auntie **anon** they were **anon** parents. Uncle **anon** and auntie
**anon** they were Pamela’s **anon** parents. Auntie **anon** used to
come on her own because grandad didn’t like uncle **anon**- and uncle
**anon** didn’t like Grandad . So he- had the- he had Christmas dinner
with his mother. So there was a lot of us. And erm the odd friend.
People like that used to pop in throughout the day. Erm- but one of
the most memorable things as a kid happened when I was at the laundry.
Erm when me grandmother was alive she used to make beetroot wine. And
you had to wait for it to mature- before you drank it. But I was being
a little bit eager and I opened one before it was ready and it was
like champagne and this red fizz went a- all over- Ah- oh no. freshly
laudered sheets, shirts, pillow cases. A whole days washing was
absolutely ruined. And I think I went to me bedroom, locked it, and I
was there for two day . I was scared stiff of me grandad. He really
did rule the roost. Yeah. Fearsome character but erm extremely kind as
well - and hard working. His day used to start at about six o clock in
the morning and go on till three o’clock the following morning. That
was Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. Thursday, Friday, Saturday his day
started at nine and finished about five. But the laundry was all done
by then and it was just a question of taking in new stuff and
delivering your- or doleing out the laundered stuff to the erm- the
regular customers cos they nearly all were regulars in those days.
They all had their own laundry mark which was written on the back of
their laundry in small chinese writing EOS We didn’t know the names we
just knew the mark EOS Yeah but that was all before I knew you wasn’t
it Arnold **anon** the EOS That’s right yeah. You hardly ever went did
you to the laundry? No I never went to the laundry no. We- we had erm-
when I was nine year old we- we moved into a shop. We used to have a
shop in **anon**. My mother’s ran the shop. It was erm- ladies and
children’s wear shop. We had a few different sidelines as well. And my
mother used to work six days a week in that. Me dad was an engineer so
he went out to work where he used to help on a Saturday. And erm when
we were there for six years altogether and erm one of the things I
think I’ve mentioned this to Barney **anon** before that always sticks
in my mind that was on- on a Saturday because my mother was still
working in the shop- I used to go to the local chip shop for lunch and
I used to get three lots of fish and chips for half a crown in total.
Now half a crown was twelve and a half pence. So that just shows how
prices have changed. But erm one of the best things about living there
was the fact that we had a double cellar and in the cellar we used to
have a- a shooting EOS With an air rifle. Erm and my dad would set up
so you could- you could- you could put targets- three targets in at
one end- and th- and then shoot down this little- walled area and erm-
we also used to do photography as well in the cellar. We used to d- do
our own developing and printing and erm cos we had running water in
this cellar. We had a sink in the corner so- so erm yeah good times
yeah. But it- Yeah we used to do some of that didn’t we at- We did
that in erm- in my bedroom. in- in the attic didn’t we. Yeah in the
attic but there was no running water there. I don’t know how we coped
really. We did everything in my bedroom. There was a snooker table.
Yeah and we did the photography on top of the snooker table. And when
we weren’t doing the photography we were playing snooker. And somehow
we managed to fit my bed at the other end. Yeah. It was a big s- a big
attic. That was a big attic bedroom. And it wasn’t a small snooker
table it was a three quarter size snooker table. It was too big for a
normal house and I gave it to erm a youth club- in **anon** and erm
unfortunately it closed down soon afterwards didn’t EOS Oh no . And I
don’t know what happened to that table. Erm todays prices it was
probably worth about five, six hundred EOS But nobody wanted it cos
nobody had room for it. Sign of the times. **anon** taken my glasses
away. I know it’s big print. Are they yours? Mm? It’s alright. I can
read just fine. shall we move on to another- Would you like some
water? I’ll just get some. Do you want me to- I can get you some if
you like. We’ll carry on talking. Where are the glasses? Ah. Ask
**anon** she’ll know. Were there a lot of kids to play with when you
were growing up? There was when I- when I lived in **anon** before we
moved to the shop. Erm there were quite a few kids in the street and
they- erm all similar aged. Erm and because it was a cul-de-sac it had
a sort of a- a- it opened out and there was a- a- a good play area for
kids but we had all the fields at the back as well. And erm yeah there
were quite of- quite a number of erm both bl- boys and girls to play
with. Erm I was saying the age difference probably was three or four
years older than me to three or four years younger than me. So lots of
kids. Yeah I was the same. We had lots of kids when I was at junior
school because in those days most kids went to school near where they
lived. Nobody went to school by car. I don’t know how we managed.
Thank you. You get a waitress service as well. You got some- can I
have one of those mats? Can I just say when we went to junior school
all the kids lived near EOS Nobody ever went to school in a car. Not
even the teachers. They didn’t have cars did they. Oh I think maybe
the headmaster did. Maybe I think b- by the time we went to grammar
school they probably EOS Yeah. Headmaster had one. but I don’t
remember any of the- any of the teachers at junior school EOS cars at
all. But at grammar school they used to park just behind- well- well I
went to **anon** school. There’s- I did three years at **anon** school
erm before I moved to **anon** where Barney **anon** was. Erm
travelling from the shop in **anon** was about four miles to **anon**
school from there and there were probably three or four teachers had
cars in those days. And one of the- one of the erm- the thing that
everybody envied was my cousin. He was in the sixth form when I
started. And he had a motorbike and he used to park this motorbike in
the- in the little- there was a little extension to the playground
where the EOS parked their cars. And he used to erm leave his bike
there and I was the envy of the other kids when I got a lift home with
him. Yeah. We had a g- Cause there were no crash helmets in those- you
just got on the back and went didn’t you. Yeah there were always a
couple of guys at **anon** school had motorbikes and they were always
the ones that had girlfriends and erm- They’d imaged themselves on
James Dean and erm- who you might’ve heard of. And they were always
the rebels who left school with no O-levels and EOS but lots of
girlfriends. Lots of reputation behind them- which they c- couldn’t
put on theirs CVs . But at junior school lots of kids to play with.
Erm- Out- out playing everyday. Erm I don’t think our parents had any
fears about us going out and s- being out. When we lived at the shop
in **anon** there was just down the lane was a park with swings and-
and roundabouts and- sliding and erm we used to spend all day there
sometimes you know you- you didn’t w- h- worry about your kids being
out. Never heard of paedophiles and erm- Well it was a word that
hadn’t been invented I don’t think. Erm I don’t think it had no and-
Erm we had one in Eccles who I now realise was a paedophile. Everyone
knew him so you just avoided him. He was called **anon**. and he wore
a big fedora- Keep it anonymous. Yeah I’ll not tell you his surname.
And he wore a big long mac and great big boots. He was straight off a
Lowry. Erm and he had a most horrible face and sometimes you could
walk down towards **anon**- and you’d see him on the aquaduct. You
could- his image was there. So y- you now had to decide did you wait
for your mate before you went over the bridge to go to church- or did
you just wait ‘til he was looking the other way and run like EOS Well
that’s how we coped with paedophilia in those days. Just EOS I never
got that close to him. I don’t re- I don’t remember what he looked
like . Oh I- I go- I think he was just a legend when I went to- when I
got to **anon**. I got too close to his brother one day erm- there was
a guy who was in our year at grammar school **anon**. Do you remember
**anon**? Oh he lived near **anon** and he had a mad brother. And if
people used to hang about outside their house he’d open the window and
he used to have a jerry under the bed. A wee pot or whatever . And he
used to empty it. So- over whoever was standing outside his house. Aye
that was **anon**. But we were lucky where we lived **anon** because
there were lots of EOS Erm **anon** didn’t exist and you were soon
going toward **anon** EOS and round there there were lots and lots of
fields where you could just enjoy yourself and- go home with jam jars
full of newts and tadpoles and erm- Tha- that’s right and there was-
and there was no traffic on the roads. There was- there were very few
cars so you- you- there was danger of crossing main roads and- mm- No
you could go on your bike anywhere. I mean regular bike trips were-
places like Lymm, Pickmere. And if you were really fit Chester or
Southport. Mind you I did Chester once and I was so tired when I got
there. Had my- had my sandwiches bottle of pop., and I said ‘we’d
better get EOS ‘If I stay much longer I’ll fall asleep and I’ll never
get home’. Ah- it seems to take forever in a car now. It takes- it
seems to take longer in a car than it used to on the EOS It’s- so does
Southport. I’m sure. Used to- we always used to reckon Southport was
thirty EOS I’m sure it’s- it- it’s the road system. Must be the road
system these days it’s- it’s nearer forty- I noticed one of the
questions here says did you ever get hurlt- hurt whilst playing when
you were a kid? I remember breaking my arm once. We used to have- in
our garden we used to have a- a six foot wall at the back. Drop down.
And we used to swing on a s- on a washing line- out and drop into the
garden. And my f- ankle got tangled up in the rope. So I swung out and
my ankle stayed where it was- and I went down and I broke my arm.
That’s erm- I’ve only had three breaks in my life and that was the
first one. I’ve- I’ve never had a break. Mind you I’ve never played
rugby and you have. My only- I’ve only had one break playing rugby and
that was this erm metatarsal but erm I broke my ankle playing soccer-
when I was about eighteen, seventeen perhaps. Mm. Yeah the only visit
I had to erm casualty as we used to call it not accident and emergency
was when I fell off a swing. Must’ve been about nine, ten and there
was a little bit of competition going on to see who could do the most
daring things on the swing. Like jump off while it was still in the
air and not using your hands and just s- sticking with it and I got to
the back swing and just fell off chin first. Yes it was that scar.
Still got a scar? So I went home. Mum took me to **anon** casualty and
the nurse s- said ‘Oh well that’s one way to lose a bit of fat isn’t
it’ EOS then she just got her scissors out and cut the excess fat off
and stitched it up. Done and dusted. No local. Erm so that was
swinging. Erm- Yeah, the only other time in casualty, was erm three
years ago when I fell. Tripped over **anon**- Oh aye you did yeah.
**anon** the dog. I nearly lost me thumb and I had to have- they
couldn’t count the stitches. Well I couldn’t. I just got fed up of
trying to keep count. It was all round here as far as there. I was
lucky that **anon** was around and erm she wrapped a towel around it.
Put it in the air. And she drove me to hospital. And it was the first
time she’d driven EOS ‘I’ve never driven it before’. But you’ll soon
learn. How are we doing for time **anon**? Erm twenty one minutes.
Shall we mo- shall we move on? nearly- nearly half term. Yes lets move
on. It’s all about school and we’ve t- Oh we done- we’ve touched on
school. touch- touched on school and erm- what have we got there
scholarsh-? No where did you go to school it says. Where did you go to
school. Oh here right. Well I started at **anon** school. **anon** for
short. Erm **anon** was a victorian philanthropist who did things like
building hospitals and schools. And he built one in **anon** for the
erm Church of England children who lived in **anon**. There was
already a Church of England school there attached to the church-
called **anon**- **anon** but it was the other side of **anon**. And
very few lived on that side . Most of the kids lived on the **anon**
side. And that’s probably one reason why he sited it where he did in
erm- in **anon**. And I should think the bridge was probably closed a
lot more in those days as well than it is- it is today- Oh it’s very
busy traffic yeah. cause there was a lot of traffic up and down- the
ship canal- I bet it was opened and closed every hour. to the docks.
There was a- always queues. I remember queues when I first started
driving every time I tried to cross **anon** bridge. Went there from
five ‘til- five years ‘til I was ten and then **anon** ‘til I was
seventeen. Seven years there. Mm. I started at **anon** school in erm
**anon** or **anon** on the border I think which was just a- a
standard state school. Quite big classes in those days about- I think
I remember there were forty eight kids in EOS Erm and there were- it
was quite a big school because there were four streams A, B, C, and D
in the secondary school and we erm- tended t- to have just one teacher
for all the lessons. Erm and I remember that starting in the second
year at junior school and the- the teacher came in- our form teacher
and started writing on the board in real writing. And none of us had
learnt real writing before that time- so he realised he had to stop
and teach us how to do real writing- before he could teach us anything
else. So that’s- that’s the- the time we learnt it. And then in the
fourth year we all took our eleven plus t- to g- see if we could go to
EOS And out of the school- out of the year there were twelve people
passed their eleven plus. And I was one of them and I went to **anon**
grammar school. And erm touching on one of these questions here. First
day at- at school at **anon** school. There was an initiation ceremony
and between two sets of steps and the school there was a like erm a-
a- the- the bank went down and then there was like a- a gully which
was about three foot wide and three foot deep. Erm and probably ten
yards wide at the very most and all the first year kids were thrown
into that- on the first day. So there were probably fifty or sixty
kids crammed into this thing. And if you ever- if you tried to get out
you got thrown back in- Was it that- And that was called a monkey run.
Was that an all boys school- No no no no- or was it mixed? that was-
it was mixed but it was segregated playgrounds of course. Yeah yeah we
had that. Yeah it was mixed yeah. Yeah. That erm- so that was- Yeah w-
w- we had it like that. the monkey run. Everybody in brand new school
uniforms- got thrown in the dirt you know. The first day. Well I
suppose ours was a cleansing our i- initiation ceremony. You had your
head put in the toilet and the toilet flushed. I think a lot of
headmasters in those days tried to run their schools along public
school lines. And erm they must have knew- known these intiation
ceremonies were EOS Oh yeah yeah. and it were just ‘part of school
life old chap’. You know . Erm cos I presume you had to wear a school
cap did you? We had to wear a school cap at all times on the way to
school- on the way home from school, lunchtimes if you went out.
Although you weren’t generally allowed out of school unless you were
going home for EOS Yeah then you had to have written permission for
that didn’t you. Yeah yeah. Well I- I once got erm into trouble for
going out of school at lunchtime. We used- we used- we used- Well I
did. It was when I went out with you to the local café EOS But this
was when I was at **anon**- Had a quick pepsi and a woodbine . We got-
we got caned. Two of us went out to buy a bottle of sauce to have with
our school dinner. And we were on second sitting and we got caught.
Called before the headmaster and we got caned for erm going out of
school at lunchtime. what kind of sauce was it? Or Daddies I’m not
sure. One or the other. Yeah yeah . Did you have to wear short
trousers? No we- we- we weren’t obliged to wear short trousers. I wore
long trousers in the first year. Oh. We were erm- But no we could wear
long trousers. third year before we could wear long trousers. When I
joined **anon** school in the forth year there were still some of the
lads- wearing short trousers- in the forth year and that would’ve been
what age fifteen, sixteen? Yeah well if the parents still thought
‘those shorts still fit’- I’m not buying you long trousers just bec-
Waste of money. Yeah waste of money. Yes it was erm- the girls wore
gym slips in the winter and dresses in EOS Which they don’t seem to do
now do they. That’s right they- that was erm- that was the same at
**anon**. The girls had a uniform dress for the summer- for the summer
term. And the other two terms they had to wear gym slips up to a
certain age and then it was skirts and blouses wasn’t it after a
certain age and ties- Oh yes after y- about forth year. Yeah. Yeah.
White blouses. Yeah I’ve- I’ve got one of those old school photographs
that’s about a yard long- or two yards long. And you can see all the
different uniform styles- according to their ages on that. Show that
to **anon** actually- It’s quite interesting- cause I- I think we
both- Did you have them taken in your school? Yeah the long ones.
Yeah. I think we’re both on that one aren’t we? I think we are yeah.
Is that the fifty nine one- fifty eight one? Fifty eight, fifty nine
something like that yeah. Fifty eight yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You’re on the
back row. I was showing **anon** the other night. Were you? . Yeah
came across it. Yeah. Yes so we both remember our first days at school
then. I- I- my initiation was easy because I knew some of the lads in
the second year and erm they did me a favour and erm made sure I
didn’t get too much of a ducking in the toilets . They wanted me to
play football in their team as well. I spent my life- school life
being favoured and because I had a certain amount of what most people
thought was a little bit of talent at EOS And erm it was misguided.
This lad, cricket I was selected for the school cricket team. And I
was still in shorts and it was ridiculous going out to play cricket in
shorts. So my mum had to take me to the co-op in Eccles to buy me some
white long trousers to play cricket. And I never got a bat or a bowl.
I must’ve been a pretty good fielder EOS Mm. We used to erm- well we
both played for the same under fifteens- Oh yeah yeah. football team.
**anon** was captain who we still see occassionally. And erm Barney
**anon** was vice captain and I’d just joined the school in the fourth
year. And played in one or two games classes and they picked me to
play on the under fifteens team. So we’ve got a photograph of that
somewhere. We have. Yeah. Was the team good? We played in- and then we
played e- for the school team didn’t we the EOS And the erm- the full
team. But we were both quite keen on erm athletics and- and sports as
well. I never played cricket very much but erm- I used to join in all
the erm different sports day activities. Yeah I was erm junior
athletics champion. Me and **anon**, **anon**- That were before erm-
Before you joined wasn’t it. oh yeah cos you were a year- no it’s
probably the year I joined. But you were in- you were a year younger
than me. So you were still in junior school weren’t you. Well I w- I
was- in the second year. Oh is- it was when you were in second year
was it. Yeah I think to get- junior you had to be under thirteen. Did
you yeah. Cause I came second to **anon** in the erm middle school.
Erm Rex Ludorum they used to call it. King of the games. I came- I
came second and **anon** came third. Much to his annoyance. He’d been
bragging the year before- that he was gonna win it. what was the
leading girl called? If the leading man was Rex or Victor- Victor
Ludorum wasn’t it- the erm the men or the- Was it Victor a- at
**anon**. It was Rex at **anon**. Was it? Erm it was Victor at
**anon**. Victor at **anon**. Victor Ludorum. I don’t know what the
girl got called. No I only did Latin for one year. Don’t know. Didn’t-
I didn’t know any girls called Victor. Victorlia- Victoria Ludarum-
Ludorum EOS Oh blimey. No no- I don’t know what’s the female- that
would- that would stay- what’s the female adjec- that would stay no
Ludorum. W- Ludorum would be the same. Th- that would- that wouldn’t-
that wouldn’t be sexed. You don’t change it like in French from petit
to petite. No it’s- that- that Ludorum means ‘of the games’ doesn’t
it? So it could’ve been erm- Yeah Victoria Ludorum . Vict- could’ve
been Victris or some- Victrix. Victrix or something like that I
suppose. **anon** from Mercedes Benz. Erm could I give him a ring back
if you get his number? Please EOS Oh ab- another half an hour at
least. They always say ‘are you happy with your car?’ and I think yeah
EOS Yes, music music. We did a lot music together didn’t we. School
choir- Well yeah we were in- at gammar school. the school choir and
then- No I wasn’t in the school orchestra. No. No I never went in the
sc- well what did you play in the school- I played guitar but it- it
was the cello part. Oh yeah it’s right. That was after I’d left I
think. It was when I was in the sixth form. The teacher just put a
few- notes down that normally a cellist would play. And I had to just
plonk them out . But we erm- we played at the school concert didn’t
we. Played at school- school con- Our school dance. school dance yeah.
As a group. At the hop. Yeah. Yeah we- Did we call them dances or did
we- we didn’t call them hops or EOS No no no no. It was the school
dance. Yeah- at erm- we were the first group ever- to play at a school
dance. That was in nineteen fifty eight. Christmas dance. Aye. And
what did you- I can even remember what songs we played . What you sang
. Go- w- w- what songs did you play? It was erm- I sang erm Tom Dooley
and erm what was the other one. Flip side of it. What was it called?
Run a- rock my soul. Rock my soul in the bosom of- And you sang-
Travelling Light. Mm. And we’re still practising. still can’t play.
But I think we did- did we just do that one EOS Did they ask us back?
Well I w- well I left. You left of course yeah. I left that Christmas.
Yeah w- yeah I started work. Yeah. Yeah w- we went on to bigger-
bigger and better venues after school. I- Eccles town hall was our
last appearance. **anon** was the first EOS Yeah. And then he went off
to university so we split up then. and him and the lead guitarist and
the drummer they prefered to buy cars and motorbikes and things
instead of amplification. But we didn’t- no- not- no- but we’d have-
we wouldn’t have been able- w- we had amplification of EOS As such-
yeah. Of a sort. We had microphones sellotaped- to the back of our
guitars. leading into reel to reel tape recorders. So it was really
not loud at all EOS Mm. Oh it w- it was a treat to have played at a
venue where they had a microphone wasn’t it- Oh aye they had their own
PA system. because quite a few of them didn’t. So there were no mic-
no amplification in some of them. The school had a- a microphone
didn’t they. And the erm- certainly Eccles town hall did. Yeah and
Urmston baths. Urmston baths is- do you remember when it was the erm
circular one? Is that when it was the Curzon? Opposite the Curzon. Mm.
I- my dad’s told me about it. Yeah, well they used to have dances
there. They used to put boards over the- the pool EOS and we played
there once at Urmston and Flixton junior football league’s
presentation evening. We sounded good with the echoes and- Oh yeah
yeah the echoes. the water and- the roof top. And it was a complete
dome at the top made out of glass and one year I think it was s- let
me see **anon** was about six or seven. It’d have been about nineteen
eighty. We had in- tremendous hale stones. Bigger than golf balls. And
they went right through the roof of Urmston baths. And of course all
the glass followed and all the tiles were damaged EOS the council said
it’s erm not economical to repair. So they knocked EOS Oh is that why?
Oh I didn’t know that. and it was a magnificent building. Th- I’ve
seen a picture of- mm. they had diving boards and erm nice café sauna.
Did you ever go? Erm- I think I probably just went the odd time. But I
used to **anon** when I was younger and we used to go from school. We
were taught to swim from school went to **anon**. Yeah we went to
**anon**- from junior school. But at grammar school there was no
swimming at all was there. that was- that was quite- and **anon**. I-
I went to **anon** a few times. I lot of my youth I spent in the
scouts and the sea scouts based at **anon** from being about thirteen
year old- up to it was probably about twenty six when I packed it in
altogether EOS What we used to do spend a load of time goin away
camping and- Yeah. But erm- Well my grandad wouldn’t allow me to go in
the scouts. He didn’t believe in it. And grandad’s word was gospel. He
said it’s like Hitler youth. He thought it was an army for kids. But
being **anon** he wanted to be very, very English and tow the line. So
Sundays we weren’t allowed to play out. We were not forced but highly
encouraged to go to church. So eventually I joined the church choir at
about the age of seven or eight. So that meant you soon got promotion
cos there weren’t many boys in the choir. I think there were four of
us. You soon got promotion to alter boy. And then after confirmation
you had to go to the early morning mass. You took it in turns at going
to eight o’clock or nine o’clock. Then you were singing at eleven
o’clock mattins. You had to go to Sunday school at two o’clock . And
then six thirty evensong. Busy day . So busy day. So you didn’t have-
really have time to play out on a EOS Well everybody went to Sunday
school in those days- but it was- it was only once for me. There was
no choir cos it was a little mission church down in **anon**. Ah. Well
the- the- the choir was the undoing of the church in many ways.
Because we got a little bit beyond our station. We started singing
very high brow stuff like- Handel’s Messiah and- we had to have erm
choral communion every first Sunday in the month. And the congregation
got a bit fed up with it. Cause it wasn’t the sort of stuff where you
could join in the chorus EOS No no no. And the c- congregation
dwindled until there were more people in the choir than in the
congregation. And the erm th- the vicar wasn’t very dynamic and his
wife was always a little bit tipsy. She used to come in and stagger
down the aisle half way- half way through the service. Her hair all
over the place . So they knocked it down. And erm the school still
remains **anon** EOS You know where I mean? On one side on the- Yeah
the little school house there. Erm that’s up for sale. Well the church
was the other side wasn’t it? The church has gone. Yeah the church was
the other side of the school. That’s been flattened. My sister got
married there. Erm I think she was the last one ever to get married
there. Erm- Yeah so I was an usher at that wedding and I was a very
poor student EOS And I couldn’t possibly have worn me best suit cos it
didn’t look very best at all. So I went to C and A and all I could
afford was one that was five pounds fifteen shillings. It looked
really smart and it lasted for the wedding. And then about a week
later I was out in the rain with it and it’s like just falling EOS It
was. It was glued. It wasn’t stitched. So it was an expensive suit
really considering I only wore it twice- before I had to throw it
away. One two three. One two three. Erm yeah th- that’s fine. Do you want
my name? Oh no that’s fine. Erm you can start now- Whenever you’re
ready. Thank you. Go on then. You start then dear. Well do you r- .
What’s her f- Can you switch off if you don’t think it’s right? We
were both born up in **anon** in Salford. Is that the- Yeah that’s
fine. Erm you lived across- we- I lived across the f- there was a
football pitch. I lived at one end EOS And I- I lived with my grandma
and mum and dad. Erm and she had what called then a corner shop- which
s- it sold everything. Bread and milk and erm we lived with her she’d
just lost her husband and bought this shop and erm my dad was a and
decorator and had a lot of out of work. And he used to get three- he-
He- he worked for himself. He had his own business. He didn’t then. Oh
no he didn’t EOS And he used to get three pounds a week- to keep us
all and he used to give it my grandma. And in return he used to get a
couple of packets of cigarettes. So erm you lived across. I lived
across yes- across the pitch. Erm and during the war, just after the
war she used to put cigarettes counter for you didn’t she? I- I didn’t
smoke then but I erm- I worked as a erm motor mechanic and the lads
there, there was quite a lot of them smoked and you couldn’t get
because they were under the counter. ‘Would you go and ask your
girlfriend’s grandma’ . Erm would she let us have some cigarettes.
Which she used to like- let us have a few packets now and again. But
erm I didn’t have any brothers and sisters. But there were lots and
lots of children. And erm we used to play outside on the erm pavement.
There were no It was just erm streets in **anon**. And erm we used to
chalk the flags play hop-scotch and erm play ball against the wall.
And erm hide and peoples’ doors and I have been known to knock on
doors and run away. And I got a good smack off my mother for doing
that because she And erm we used to erm- we never went far away from
where we lived everywhere was very safe. There was no- no erm hint of
any people- doing wrong things to children. Not like there is today.
There was nothing like that. Where I lived anyway. Erm as I say my
grandma had a shop. Erm I can remember bread being four pence and milk
being four pence same time. And erm she used to have this machine
where she cut all up by hand with a machine that you turned a handle.
And she had loads sweets in one window and I was not allowed to touch
them- unless I asked her could I have some. Now I was allowed but if I
was taking any I got another smack off me mother across my legs. She
was a very strict- yeah. B: And it never ever did me any harm. Erm and
I did have to help out in because we used to stone the steps. We used
to stone the step of the stone the window ledges of the house- all the
way round. And stone the back steps- The back yard yeah. with a- a
brown stone or a cream stone. And while I was doing it I was told to
do **anon** next door so I had to do those as well. And erm what about
you? What did you do? What did I do? When you were young. What did you
play? Well I used to pla- play a lot of football. I used to love
football and of course facing the house was this big EOS Which was
horrible surface. Oh was it? int- in- incidentally- it wasn’t- It was
like cinders. I was a cinder pitch really. When you fell down it- it
used to take part of your knee cap off. So constant- constantly you
had black marks on your knees cinders had gone in. And erm but I used
to love playing football and erm I used to also EOS But what- also
what did you used to do? You used to go on the hills at **anon** which
was near **anon** prison. And what did you used to do there? You used
to go swimming in the- Swimming in these- horrible dirty filthy water.
When you think about it yes. There was they were like erm they were
like big clay pits filled with water and we used to go swimming in
there. I’d- Many a time I’d cut my foot, my legs because there was
broken bottle- There was old prams in there. Terrible when you think
of it. When I think about it now. I mean I wasn’t allowed. I didn’t
know this went on until we started to go out as erm w- when I was
about fifteen or sixteen. Keith **anon** used to mend my bike and I
used to go for chips for all the erm- All the- all the- boys and girls
that were all round on the corner there. But m- us best or funniest
memory was during the war and erm we used w- we had a back yard and it
had a little garden ine itwith a beautiful tree in it. The EOS Oh erm
th- what’s- the elderber- So we did have a bit of a- a little bit of
garden but this brick- they came and built these brick shelters. I
can’t remember w- w- how- the shelter being EOS But my dad made it
very nice inside with beds and we had erm some kind of a light in
there and erm my grandma would never ever come down when the air raids
went. And it was very frightening- and it must’ve been very
frightening for them but I was only nine, And it- to me it was a big
adventure. And one night my dad was a- an ARP warden like you see on
erm Dad’s EOS And erm one night they dropped all these incendiary
bombs on this pitch at the back of our house. and they hit erm-
**anon** prison that night. My dad dragged the dustbin out which in
those days they were metal EOS He dragged it outside and he said ‘come
on Brenda **anon** and help me with water because w- we’re going to
have to put all these fires out’. And I was running backwards and
forwards and passing him all this water. And erm we put the light on.
And I said to him ‘daddy this water’s not going- there’s no water in
unfortunately in the- so it- to me it’s very funny this. We were
dashing backwards and forwards with this buckets of water and was a
big hole in the dustbin. So as fast as we were p- Putting the water in
it was running out. putting the water in EOS So that to me is a- a
long- it’s- I mean it’s a long time ago and I and it was very funny.
And erm when these bombs these incendiary bombs dropped they dropped
outside a lamp post. You used to have big lamp posts in those days. I
what- what were those lamp posts erm- They used to be gas. And erm m-
Well they were, they were ga- I’ve never seen my grandma come down the
stairs as quick. She’d never ever got up. She used to stay in bed. But
she was down EOS And one night me mother came out and she’d got the
budgie on her EOS Oh no . So she had to t- and I said m- I used to
call her mammy ‘mammy’. The- forget what the bird was called. ‘So and
so’s on your head’. Sh- She turned quickly back and went you went back
in the house so that was another funny memory. And erm- about parents-
Erm what I used to do was erm when I think about it now I never let my
sons do that. But erm I used to erm when the air raids were EOS I used
to go out with a- a bucket and a pair of coal tongs and I’d be picking
shrapnel up. You’d- you’d- you’d be s- listening ye- and you’d hear it
going down the road. And you could see it was white hot. When I think
that really that my parents let me go out- picking the sh- the
shrapnel- the pieces of shrapnel up. I had buckets and buckets of it.
And we used to swap it with one another you know. It- it- if it had
German erm- erm- emblem on you used to erm swap it for something else.
Incendiary bombs had the German mark on. But as I say we were
children. It was an adventure to us. Erm I- I th- I thought it was
great- But can you imagine if it happened now. I’d be absolutely-
frightened to death. When you know what’s going on. You would. It- it
would be a very frightening experience cos my mother was a very
nervous lady. And she must’ve been absolutely frightened to death.
Terrified yeah. But on this football pitch facing they dug it all up
and put the biggest air raid shelter you’ve ever seen on the ground.
Yeah. And we used to go in there. It- it was terrible. It was t- Well
I never went in. Oh the- the smell. My mother wouldn’t go in there so-
But we- we had a- one built in the back erm- the back yard. Yeah they
built these brick- They were very strong brick. I meant there were
different types of EOS My auntie who lived in Urmston she had one and
it was called a Morrison and it was like a big cage. A- anderson ones.
They- Just like a big cage. A Morrison. Oh that was the Morrison yes.
And erm she used to have a lovely- a lovely embroidered cloth on it-
and flowers. And if the sirens went she used to go under there with
They had no children. Erm and then there were the Anderson ones with
in the garden. You used to go down into those. But erm m- there was w-
called a blitz. Erm it was a christmas blitz EOS Yes that was the
biggest . Nineteen forty- forty one. And my grandparents lived in
**anon** which in- still in Salford. And when I think of it now they
wouldn’t have child but I was ten and my mother put me on the bus
where we lived- to go and see- ‘go and see if your grandma’s alright.’
And I went on my own you EOS it would be unheard of now wouldn’t it?
And erm when I got there the street had been bombed- and all the
houses the curtains the windows were all blown out. And I stood at the
top of this street and I cried. And this man came to me and he said
‘what’s the matter?’ and I said to see my grandma and look at the
house’. He said ‘don’t worry I’ll They’ve taken them to th- what they
called a rest centre and it was in a church. And he took me there. Now
in this day and age I didn’t know the man. Well you know y- when you
think. Erm there was no- there was none of that fear. I think you were
safer then than you are today. I do really think so. Y- you never
heard of people being murdered and stabbed and- and like I say you
used- you used- you used to t- travel quite a way on your own EOS Yes
you did. young. Going to school. Oh yes. I went to **anon** school.
Was- yeah- Which is quite a way from- I went to- I went to **anon**
School. Before that I went to **anon** School and my mother used to
take me and bring me home four times a EOS She used to take me in the
morning. Come home. Come for me at lunchtime. We used to go through a-
and a park called **anon** Park which is still there. Take me back.
Then come for me back again in the EOS And then I went to **anon**
School EOS and I used to walk there e- but if me mother could afford
it I used to go on the bus. And it was a g- a long way from where I
lived. It was a long way yes. So erm that school isn’t there anymore
**anon** School. It was called Bella Vista because it was the **anon**
consul at one time. And it was a beautiful house. It was really
lovely. So erm and what do you remember from your first day at school?
I cried and cried- and the Headmistress was called **anon** and she
said to my mother ‘leave her, she’ll be alright’ and I sat at **anon**
side on a chair for EOS And she said to me mother ‘she’ll get fed up
before I will’. So that was- I hated it and I was very upset and
eventually **anon**- I got very friendly with her and she eventually
erm persuaded me to go into the classroom . No I never got into
trouble at school. I was quite a good child I EOS We- talking about
holidays we erm w- never had any holidays. Th- th- the erm- oh switch
it off. That alright? Is that ok? Yeah that’s fine. Don’t worry.
Telephone conversation omitted EOS No thank you EOS They’ve got ten
eight hundred and thirty four pound vouchers to give out. So I don’t-
Sounds a bit odd. oh, they’re always sending me- No I- I never had- I
never went on holiday. The only holiday I’ve ever had was- You had a
lot of brothers and sisters. I- I did. I was an only child. Yes I had
erm four brothers and one sister. And erm- but we never had holidays.
Only days out to Blackpool. But my- one of my brothers- I had four
half b- brothers. Step brothers. And erm he- he was a mechanic and erm
he- he- he used to do quite well and he said ‘if you save your spends
up’ which was about in today’s money about five p a week- erm ‘you can
come away with me’ and he had a m- a car which in the- those days was
fantastic you know. If somebody had a motorcar- Well if you had a
friend that was a car- that had a car it was absolutely marvellous. K:
Well he had a car and erm and erm he- he said ‘save your- save your
spends up and I’ll take you erm away for a week’. And he did and we w-
went to Wales and when I was sat at- I can see myself now sat in that
car. And I- I was hoping all my friends could see me EOS going away on
holiday. And that was about the best holiday I ever had then- as- as
child cos I never went away again after that. Like I say we used to
go, now and again they’d take us to Blackpool on the train. For a day.
But erm that was it. Well I went to Blackpool once a year for a week.
And what you did it was a- I forget what they called it. It wasn’t
self-catering but you bought the food and the person that you were
staying with erm she cooked it for you. Th- th- they- c- cooked it for
you yeah. I don’t know what they called it but th- they did a lot of
that in those days and that street it’s **anon** or **anon**. It’s
still there in Blackpool and we went once a week- erm once a year for
a week. can I go- move onto that one? Yeah. Oh I did get hurt while-
when I was playing as a child. Like Keith **anon** said erm I fell on
this what we called a rec. We called it the rec didn’t we? Yeah th- it
was a- yeah we called it a rec. I- I- It was short for recreation
ground EOS but we called it the rec and I fell on there. Ooh and I had
terrible knees. I always had- They were awful- and we’d gone to- my
mother had bound them up and we’d gone to visit me grandma who was a-
she was a lovely lady and they lived in **anon**. And she said ‘what’s
she done?’ and my mother told her and she looked at it and she said
‘get those bandages off’ because they’d all pussed EOS She said erm
‘let it- let- get the air to them’. I can always remember it and
within a- a day they’d- they’d all dried up. So EOS I’ve always
remembered that ever since . Your home town. Shall we go onto home
town? Yeah you can do yeah. Do you want me to talk or- Yeah go on
I’ll- are you going to say where were your parents from? Oh parents
from. Well erm my parents erm my father worked at EOS from **anon**,
from **anon**. Oh my- my- m- m- my erm mother’s family originate from
**anon**. That’s where erm- that’s where they were erm born. But my
father Erm, **anon** which was at Gorton. **anon** were locomotive
engineers and he used to cy- They made the big steam trains you know.
Steam trains and that. And he used to erm cycle from erm **anon** all
the way to Gorton every- and back again which is a heck of a way .
Like I say in- in regards to toys I’ve had very, very little toys. But
my father had some cowboys and indians made. He- he g- he got the erm
the chaps at work th- that make the erm moulds in- they made these erm
moulds for soldiers and cowboys and he- he made- he made them out of
solid lead. When you think now, I used t- they weren’t painted when-
and I got them for Christmas and when I think I used to play with lead
soldiers . You know which is really harmful for you. But that was the
only erm toys I had and I had them for years I was playing with those.
My interests when I was a child, I’ve just seen that there, erm was
music. I learned to play the piano. And erm I- I loved music in any-
any form really. And I still do. I still sing and erm we have a music
group at church but of course that’s- i- that’s lo- current at the
moment but me parents, my father was born in **anon** and my mother
was born in erm- down erm in Salford in **anon**. So erm I don’t know
why me- me father came to live in Salford but erm my mother’s never
been anywhere- no she was born here. And erm I’ve got a picture of her
when she was a little girl. So she’d- she was born in nineteen hundred
and two so it’s quite and old EOS And if you ever want any old
pictures I’ve got them. Erm- erm we didn’t move house at all. Erm we
went to live in that shop as I say with my grandma and the next move
we made was when she died and they sold the house, my mother and
father, and we went to live in **anon**. We were still in Salford and
erm Keith **anon** was in the army weren’t y- nati- doing his national
sh- service. And erm we married from the house in **anon** didn’t we.
Well I was in the army. Yes he was in the army. Because erm- erm then
i- it was a s- sergeant said to me- he said- I told him that I was en-
engaged- to be married when I came out of the army. He said ‘well
really you’d be better marrying because you’ll get marriage
allowance’. So w- we arranged didn’t we- I’d been in the army about-
and I was twenty one. And y- Keith **anon** was twenty two when we got
married. Mm. So we did erm get married- and erm and of course Brenda
**anon** got the erm- the erm marriage allowance and saved it up and
we had a nice little nest egg EOS when- when I came out. And that’s
when I came up to **anon** from **anon** with a friend who was looking
at some houses erm on the front there, near **anon**. They were
building those semis r- just round the corner when you go towards the
Trafford Centre. There’s some semis there- and erm **anon** and she
went to look at those and then we came to look at these on **anon**
and I liked these. No we- we brought them up didn’t we and y- your
father’s- No, no that was after. That was after. No I brought erm I
can’t remember her name now. No you weren’t very friendly with her but
then- I saw these and went back home and told Keith **anon** and
that’s- that’s when we came to live in **anon**. In- in th- In this
house in **anon**. Yeah. Fifty five years ago. And we- we paid one
thousand eight hundred and fifty pounds. No one thousand six hundred
and fifty pounds. Oh one thousand six hundred and fifty pounds for it.
Sixteen hundred and fifty. Eh. It’s amazing isn’t it? Yeah. It is. But
we brought a friend with us who was my son- my eldest son’s godfather
and they lived in **anon**. And he was a very astute man and a very
good man and a- we really were very fond of him. And he came with us
to look at them and my dad was very much against us buying it. He said
‘you’ve got a milstone round your neck’. That’s what he said. But we
were very happy living with your parents. They had that big house in
**anon** and- we were very, very happy. And erm my mother- and he- my
mother thought the world of Keith **anon** and he thought the world of
her. Erm but erm **anon** this friend of ours came to talk me dad
round to say that he had bought his house and it was three hundred and
forty EOS And that was- And that was a milstone round their neck but
it wasn’t anymore. And he said eventually it will be beneficial to
them. So that’s- he talked my dad round and- Well the thing was you
could rent a house then. You could rent houses. There was- there was
plenty to rent. I mean not like n- not like today. But we just liked
these houses. We thought they were absolutely lovely and erm m- m-
what it- what was it we hadn’t got money for? Erm- Oh the erm- and my
dad lent us the twenty five pounds. we didn’t have the money for the
erm the rest of the money for the EOS It was a hundred pound deposit.
We’d paid forty but there was sixty outstanding and w- we k- kept
coming round and having a look and it’s- once they got the roof on
they wanted the balance. And I thought- the came and they’d got the
roof on. And by the Keith **anon** wasn’t a mechanic. He was working
for me father who was a painter and decorator and you had to have e-
eleven pounds a week wages. They wouldn’t take the wife then. It was
just the husband it- you know if you were working that didn’t matter.
And I was earning ten pounds. And he was earning ten and me- my dad
said to Keith **anon** ‘well tell them you’re earning eleven but I
can’t afford to give you that’. And he- he lent us the money for the
erm- But when you think of those figures. But you see it just- it goes
on and on. Yeah it does. I meant when- when you get older you’ll think
well fancy those prices that we paid then. So erm yeah. Erm in your
opinion how has the community changed in recent years? Well I think it
changed tr- tremendously. Tremendously. There’s a lot of terrible
things happen now that I don’t think did happen then. Children are-
are not safe anymore like they used to be. You can’t afford to take
your eyes off them can you. and everything is so expensive to take
them anywhere. I mean my son has just been away with four and he said
when you go in a- just for a coffee. It’s six coff- well five coffees
or five drinks. And it’s so expensive isn’t it. But erm everything
has- has really gone up in price. The most important changes have
taken place in your town. Well when we came round here from erm- from
**anon** we thought we were coming to live in the country- In the
country. It was beautiful. It was so quiet- You could park anywhere in
Urmston and erm- but now I think it’s- And we liked Urmston as it was.
It- well w- we did yeah. But I mean now I think they’ve just made a
mess of it. because it’s part finished and- and they’re not saying-
they’re saying until they- I think they- somebody said that they’ve
run out of money the developers. Yeah I think they have. And erm- so
it’s just a mess I think. I think they expected more people to erm buy
those apartments- in the centre, but then- Yeah and they haven’t done.
No. No. No they haven’t. And I think they’re the ugliest looking
things. We only said the other day look at all that horrible wood.
Where’s the design in that? And then of course a build-up of erm- I’m
not objecting to the Trafford Centre but the Chill Factor and erm all
these big things that keep going up. It’s just lost it’s erm I don’t
know, prettiness really. It used to be a pretty village more or less
Davyhulme. And I know things have got to progress but I don’t- I hate
all these great big things that are going up. And erm I don’t know.
Local people- but we remember the first erm- We remember the- shopping
centre being built in Urmston. The precinct there. And it was nice. It
was nice before. It was a nice precinct that. It- no it was nice
before that they did that I thought. It was quite quaint. I’ve s- I’ve
got loads of pictures of that. How it used to be . But erm- But I do
think there’s a lot of community things happening now like erm the man
that owns **anon** that **anon**. Now f- I think it’s the third year
now that he’s put this community EOS sort of a carnival type thing
hasn’t he. In the grammar school gardens and I think- we went because
my granddaughters were dancing. They go to **anon**. And they were
doing this dancing group and we went to watch them and I just thought
it was lovely. All the people- local people all mingling with one
another. And I really- I r- it really uplifted me to see them all
having a good time and there was no trouble. Erm and I think the
community spirit here is better and hope it will EOS Erm the carnival
on Saturday- there’s the carnival on Saturday and for the first time
there’s erm an ecumenical church tent being EOS And they’re giving
free teas and cakes. In fact we’re involved with EOS And it’s the
first time they’ve done that and erm hope- hopefully well they will be
telling people all about the things that go on in all the churches.
Hopefully we might get a few more people to come. But it’s still a
community thing and I think- Gets people together yeah. it’s a good
thing for the community EOS Yeah I li- I- Yeah and erm there’s not
really- when you look at the television and see all the horrible
things that happen in other towns. I don’t know I’ve never heard of
anything horrible - No I haven’t EOS happening in Urmston at night. So
I just hope that erm- there’s- I think there’s quite a long of thing
to ha- to do in this community if you’re willing to erm- you know
different erm- erm what- what can I call them, different groups. So
you needn’t be bored. There’s lots to do really. If you go out and
look for it. What’s your- do you agree with me? You see- Yes I d-
we’re very involved in church so I’ve always got something to do. I
mean I’m going out tonight. No I’m going out tomorrow and erm going
out next week all the meetings start so I’ll be out about three nights
a week which is erm- is very good. Mm. Right . I think it’s very sad
that erm TJ Hughes has gone from Stretford. I think it’ll be a- make a
big difference to Stretford erm- erm town centre. Erm cos I like- I
like that erm shopping precinct. It’s pleasant and it’s warm and- erm
it’s somewhere for people to meet. I don’t know what’s going to happen
there. Did you ever get into trouble at school? Going back a bit now
aren’t EOS Does it matter? No of course it doesn’t. No it doesn’t
matter? Yep . Did you get into trouble? I didn’t- Yeah- oh no you
didn’t, no. I was perfect EOS Hey we- we used to c- I went to **anon**
School first and from there I went to **anon** school, **anon**. And
on the way home from when we were EOS erm **anon** the erm- we used to
pass this house that had a cherry tree hanging over the wall. And ev-
everyday you passed it seemed to get redder and redder these cherries
and me and my friends one day we thought I think we’ll have some of
those . And we climbed on the wall and just pulled a little bunch down
and we both had one each. And they were horrible. But we didn’t-
unknown to us there was policeman behind us who EOS and took us back
to school. And erm the next morning we had to come out in front of
the- all the assembly and the pair of us were brought out to the front
and- and the teacher erm- the teacher said- the Headteacher said I’d
have- we’d have to go to his room after and of course we were- our
heads down and we both got the cane on both hands. And when we used to
walk past that house with those cherry EOS we used to have our hands
in our pockets . Yeah well I think there again- I think it’s gone from
the sublime to EOS Yes you’re not allowed to touch- Because I think
it’s digusting now that children have got no respect- for policemen
and really a lot of them have not got any respect for EOS And they try
and blame everybody bar the parents. I know. The riots were terrible
weren’t they. Oh that was terrible. Well what’s uplifted me **anon**
was the m- the all those young people going in and cleaning up. I
thought that was wonderful EOS Yeah. That was brilliant. And some of
them looked- I thought golly you’d- You know so you can’t tell by how
people look. No you’re right. But I do think it’s erm you know that
being allowed to throw stones at policemen. I was frightened to death
of policemen. Oh yes. Y- I- that was silly but I’d rather it be like
that- than like it is now. I mean policemen are there to erm to keep-
To protect the- to protect people- protect the public. Yeah th- and
the public. And they get a terrible lot of bad pub- publicity. And I
know maybe there are some sadistic policemen but most of them are very
good and decent men. And erm I just think it’s awful that children
should be taught to have more respect. Erm and I still blame the
parents for a lot of these children. Yes it’s sad really. I- And I
think a lot of these children as well are from broken homes and
they’re living in erm social erm- erm they’re- they’re under the care
of the erm- Trafford. And erm I’ve heard reports that they just run
wild and you’re not allowed to touch them. You’re not- if- they know
that if you touch them they can report you. And I mean I used to get
lots of smacks off my mother and it never did me any harm at all. And
erm I can always remember when I was- my mother had just given me a
good hiding and she’d gone into the kitchen and I walked behind her
and pulled my tongue out. And she turned round and I got another one.
And I said ‘what was that for?’ ‘because’ she said ‘you’ve just pulled
your tongue out haven’t you?’. And years after I said ‘how did you
know?’. She said ‘I just knew you were going to do that’. But we end-
we were always the best of friends. Really good pals. Erm I can stop
that- this now if- One, two, three, four, five. Okay that’s fine, after you Roger
**anon**. That’s the quickest one to five I’ve ever heard. What fun
things are there to do in your community? What would you say about
that? What do you like to do to have fun? You like to go for EOS
cinema, it’s a shame about the erm, **anon** cinema closing. Or is it?
Well, it was a- It was a bit of an old flea pit, wasn’t it? Yeah,
there’s lots of restaurants in Urmston and there’s parks for the kids.
And, well you’ve got the Trafford centre anyway, that’s not so far
away, haven’t you? So I think everything you need really is there. I
got a text today. You got the laserquest and all that business,
haven’t you? that you can go to. I was- I got a text today, from
Orange. Inviting me to go out on EOS Mm I did. I didn’t reply to it.
But you’re going this Wednesday, aren’t you? Is it this Wednesday or
next Wednesday? Thought you were going with **anon**? No I’m going to
me mum’s. Thought you were going to the cinema with **anon**. Must
have been a- another woman I heard. Right, Ok, so, talking about
childhood, we both grew up only really five minutes walk away from
each other. So the sort of things that we used to do are probably
quite similar. Except, that, for the first- up until being the- six I
lived erm in **anon** which was different. Because- different to you.
Because we were- there were so many of us really cos I was- come from
a family of five children, that instead of playing out with friends we
tended not really to- to want to go outside, cos there was always
gonna be one of us to play with. So we’d always play in the back yard,
it was always ball games. Against the wall generally. Things like, we
used to have a game called ‘donkey’ which was throwing a ball against
a wall and jumping over it. Which- Which kept us amused for hours. You
know, rounders, there was always enough of us to have a team. So we
didn’t really need other people, whereas I know that you were always
out with lots of other friends. Yeah I- I tended to play more with
sort of like, male friends. They weren’t- you didn’t really hang
around with girls until you got a little bit older. But er yeah and
ours were like ball games. We were erm- nothing hi- tech as today,
obviously but er do pretty much sport based games. But you used to
play making like go-karts and things like that, yeah and then we used
to go swimming, things like that at the weekend. And- but majority
like sport based games, with l- not really involving anything erm that
you needed to buy, you tended to try and make it, or if your ball-
ball burst, you repaired it rather than just nipping out and buying
another one, cos we didn’t have the money, really just to replace
something. Y- you tended to make do with what EOS And what was- can
you think of anything that was very funny that happened to you when
you were young? erm funny to who? To me or to anybody else? Well, I-
we used to go fishing and er throw people in- in the water when you
got a bit fed up and you couldn’t catch any fish. mmm, no just naughty
games really, wasn’t it? Like knocking on doors was quite- and running
away was quite common, or p- yeah see we never did anything like that
but we used to get, erm- ma- mind you we were in trouble for it. We
got mattress going down the stairs. Because we were always in- s- sort
of in the house. Or outside, so we would always be messing about
inside really. Playing hide and seek, just things like that EOS Well
we tended to be outside more than anything obviously, and the summers
always seemed better. Mind you saying that, we’re having a good one
this year. But we tended to be outside quite a lot. Which really got
you out of the- got you out of the like, from under your mum and dad’s
feet. And we used to erm go- not- well we used to go on our bikes, the
roads were quieter then obviously in those days, we used to go on our
bikes, down to the local river. Which was probably about six or seven
miles away. And go swimming, most days in the summer. Erm, camping, we
used to camp on like, on the local fields. Things like that quite a
lot. when- erm, when the weather obviously allowed. Yeah right whereas
we just used to play imaginative games as well, cos we were always
dressed up, erm, in me mum’s clothes EOS With tights on with tights on
your head. Because I always, always wanted long hair. And my mum used
to always keep our hair very short. And one day somebody said to me-
called me, ‘sonny.’ And from then on I always wanted to pretend I had
long hair. So I used to wear tights on my head, with bows on the EOS
And you wonder why I fell for you . Most- most people wonder why I
fell for you. Did you ever get hurt while playing when you were a kid?
Oh yes used to fall out of trees quite often, cos we did a lot of
climbing based games and chasing each other around. So we’re forever
falling, cuts and scrapes. Erm- football injuries, cricket injuries
EOS Yeah but tree- falling out of trees was quite a common injury.
Once I- I broke- broke my arm. And that was- well it wasn’t broke
actually it was erm, sort of badly bruised but it was like a crack or
something, I don’t know in the bone. But it wasn’t particularly- it
wasn’t definitely broken. But anyway it was because me and **anon** my
sister were waiting for my other sister **anon** to come out of
school. And there was a moat running round the side- it- well it was
called the moat, erm, out- outside of the school. Erm I think it was
all to do really with- that they were knocking down a lot of erm
houses near where we lived. Erm, erm and there was like bricks and
things everywhere. And it was just like a trench, I think that was
what it was. But we used to call it the moat. And of course I was like
trying to walk along the side of it and I fell in EOS And erm- and erm
**anon** had to come and get me out. Take me to erm, to hospital. Also
we used to fall off a lot of words. So that was the worst thing that
happened to me. It always seemed more fun to walk along the walls than
it did the EOS Yeah I mean, one of the dangerous things that we used
to do, I mean thinking about it now was going into these houses, cos
they were derelict houses. So they were only like half standing. And
there’s p- some houses actually had a staircase that you would still
be able to walk up, even though there was no floor. No floor above,
yeah. Or half a floor at the top. And on the way home from school
sometimes we would always go in these houses, erm, and sort of try and
have a bit of an, you know, investigate what’s going on. But really
when I think about it, it’s just so dangerous. Oh yeah, yeah we- we
used to make er bonfires round bonfire night obviously but we used to
make dens in those and they were quite big and dangerous cos erm the
fire brigade generally used to come and pull half the- the timber that
you’d collected off, they wouldn’t let you build it as big as it was.
And erm as soon as they left, we used to put it all back on again. And
then make dens inside them and things like that. And so it w- it was
quite dangerous times really, compared to what the kids seem to get up
to today. But I didn’t know anybody who- even though- I mean we all
used to play in these- erm these houses all on- the- the Crofts, they
used to be called. And that would be like where a house was completely
EOS And so all’s what was left was like bricks on the floor, and glass
and things. Erm but I mean everybody used to cut across crofts. Adults
used to, you know it wasn’t just the kids. And there used to be like
pass- path- pathways that went through because it was a shortcut to
wherever you lived. Erm and I fell over there ones and I got a scar
where I actually fell on some glass. but erm that’s how it was and
then everybody moved to sort of like, certain areas in Manchester. And
it just so happened that **anon**, a lot of the community was moved to
**anon**, and that was when we moved- To **anon** which was round the
corner from where you are. Mm to where I was yeah. But some were moved
to- I think there’s Wythenshawe, wasn’t it? And erm so there was a big
new estate right up in Northern Manchester, it was a Hattersley. And-.
Yeah that’s them like on-. Which was absolutely- it was lovely when it
was very first done. It was very rural, it still is, rural area. But
now it’s s- it’s just so rough up there, isn’t it? The estate EOS The
estate’s rough yeah it’s-. And that was where- wasn’t that where Myra
Hindley was and Ian Brady? But that was in the early sixties. So that
would have been earlier. mm, it was- yeah, Yeah, because I’m talking
about sixt- sixty eight, something like that. I think Myra Hindley was
early- early- earlier than that. But er yeah. So there was er- so
that- can you remember a good story that your parents or grandparents
used to tell you? Eh, well my- well my mum still telling stories now.
That’s just to make things- she likes to embroider things. Ah me mum
still- but tells a good yarn EOS I remember my mum te- still tells the
story of when she went back to Belfast and she was erm- during the war
and they were moved from Manchester back over to Belfast cos of the
bombing in Manchester and she thought it was really exciting when you
were given a- a Mae West and a whistle, in case the submarines sank
your-your ship and she- she kind of couldn’t wait for it to erm,
explode, so she could have a go of her whistle and watch the light
come on as she hit the water. Yeah I used to like stories that me mum
told me because me mum is- was really quite a naughty girl, and erm-
but she used to make me laugh. Because she was tell- cos her dad was
erm, a Welsh Baptist preacher. And she used to sit in the back, in the
pew that was for the family whittling her name in the wood . Which
isn’t a good thing, and if he only knew, he’d have gone EOS That’s not
a very religious thing, mm EOS So that’s funny. But holidays were
always s- we always seemed to er- take holidays to North Wales,
usually erm, in the early days to er a bungalow, which was- I can
still remember the smell now, there were always damp musty smells. Me
mum always tried to convince me dad that they had to go in a caravan,
would be better because they were more modern. But he- he wouldn’t
have it cos he always said that they were like being in a tin can, if
it rained. And eventually she got him to go in one and he never went
in a bungalow again, cos he realised how good they were. But it was
always Wales, we didn’t have foreign holidays at all. It was always
North Wales. No, whereas we didn’t really- me- cos me dad died when er
I was only two, and so me mum didn’t have a lot of money, she went to
work, back to work. And so in school holidays, we used to get sent to
erm my Gran’s house, who lived in Wales, or erm, I used to go to an
Auntie’s who lived in erm well first of all Wales and then on to
Blackpool. Erm so we would always be together. And we used to just go
on the beach. All of us, or- go on the mountains and just run around
and just go wild really. **anon** gran used to give us a good
breakfast and say she didn’t want to see us back again till teatime.
And we didn;t want to go back till tea. So that was always good times.
Erm that’s- I spent most of my teenage erm, holidays on- on- on the
beach, pretty much on me own. Me- me dad didn’t like the beach. Me mum
used to come for a walk but I used to sort of like- we used to play
games erm but it was pretty much- I used to wander up and down the
beach and erm, throwing stones at this that and the other and er EOS
whiling the hours away that way. But er- didn’t really go in the- in
the water much. It was- it was too cold. But erm I remember them, erm,
th- they were good holidays. I always- I always really enjoyed them
and it was nice to spend time together. With er- we always used to buy
a kite on the way down. That’s something, erm, me dad and I always did
EOS was kept flying kites. Usually from the petrol station on- on the
way down but they were good. And what was your least favourite
teacher? I had a least favourite teacher. **anon** woodwork teacher,
horrible man. He was erm, a bully really. Er when you look back at it
he was- it was quite scandalous the things he used to do. Erm but- not
a good teacher. Favourite teacher, **anon** from **anon**, who was
really good teacher, went on to become headmistress at a local school
years later. You had some weird and wonderful teachers EOS I don’t
remember primary school them being weird and wonderful. They were
actually quite sweet. There was one who was a bit strange called
**anon**, who used to have a double row of teeth at the bottom. Erm
like EOS I don’t really know why but she did. erm, she was very scary,
real old-school erm- little glasses on the end of her nose. She looked
like something like a caricature of erm a little old fashioned
teacher, with a bun, erm, but apart form that I- I think the primary
school was- they were really quite sweet but at secondary school they-
well most of them were nuns. Erm cos I went to **anon**, so, erm, and
I think the- I still think it’s quite a strange thing to just you
know, lock yourself away as a woman, base education on- and just
become a teacher, because I don’t really think that erm they would
know much about life. And they- they- even though they would know
their subject, I think sometimes they were at a loss to deal with
teenage girls, erm EOS and any problems that anybody might have. You
know so erm, I think sometimes the- they weren’t very EOS Or they
didn’t really have a lot to say other than their subjects. Erm so I
thought that was quite strange. And the- the, erm, head teacher was a
nun and the deputy head teacher was a nun and the deputy head teacher,
**anon** used to just send fear into everybody’s hearts. And erm- just
used to- but erm the punishments weren’t ever shouting at, it was all
to do with erm- it was all to do with church. Mm, ours was-. I used to
have to go and pray for forgiveness quite a few times. Well ours were
always physical, they weren’t- erm, and obviously the cane and the
slipper were allowed in school when I was there. So if you did
something quite menial, or didn’t get your homework in on time or
something like that, you were hit with the slipper. Which is like
usually a plimsoll or er a gym-shoe. But some teachers gave them
names, like erm- **anon** called his ‘Oscar.’ EOS And he’d like
removed everything apart from the floppy sole, and he used to send
people for er- he’d hit you say six times with that just in case you
know, er, you’d- you hadn’t done something right. But if you were
really, really in trouble, then you had to go and see **anon**, he was
the head teacher, we used to call him **anon**, cos of his surname.
But he used to have canes of various shapes and sizes. Like he would
actually ask you to hold your hand out and- well he would erm- give
you six of the best, as he called it and it was pretty brutal really.
When you think back, I certainly wouldn’t allow my kids to be- to be
hit by a- a teacher. But that was the way life was. What sorts of
things did you like at school? To do, extra activities. Well I used to
liked sports, used to like playing football in a team, used to play
football for the football team, obviously, for the school football
team. Erm badminton. Used to pl- like playing that. Erm but I wasn’t-
I used to join the bo- like the book clubs and history club and things
like that just so that you could get first in the line at lunch. So
you could get your dinner before everybody else EOS and then pretty
much not go to the club but at least you’d- you’d got something from
it . I used to like erm, hockey, I was erm quite sort of feisty I was
very- I was quite little really erm for a long time and- but I was
quite EOS and I used to just love going whooshing up and down the
fields, cos it was the one thing that I actually thought that I was
pretty good at. I don’t know if I was good but I used to feel I was
good at it, and erm- I don’t think they expected- perhaps they didn’t
see me coming, I don’t know but I used to manage to get a few goals
in. So it was okay. And I loved drama, I liked music. I still like
music now, I still like music and I still like drama. And I just like
to- I like to- to escape from er- it w- it was all a bit humdrum erm
and I used to like all the colours and I used to get involved in the
lighting and things like that. And I thought that was erm, that was
interesting. Well I always got a good part in the school play. I was
the pied piper of Hamblyn, although I couldn’t play a recorder EOS and
I had to pretend I was playing a recorder whilst all these er rats
were running behind me. And I played a tree, I played a tree in one
pl- oh no sorry it wasn’t a tree, I was a dormouse in one play, which
had to sit underneath a tree. And this tree was actually **anon**.
Because he was like the tallest guy in the class. So he- he basically
had to stand there for twenty minutes with his arms out. While I was
curled up asleep below. And me mum said I EOS told everybody, but no,
I mean I remember the school plays, I- i generally got quite a decent
part in that or a part with- at least just a speech part or rather
than er just standing there dressed as a donkey or something. No I
remember our drama teacher, **anon** who was my absolute favourite
teacher. And the reason why I liked her was because she just- she was
all perfume and scarves, and erm curly hair, and she was very, very
pretty, and was very, very loud, and used to laugh like mad at
everything people said. But erm she was lovely and she was the one who
said that I should really go to some sort of drama school. And that-
but of course me mum looked into it and she didn’t have the money to
send me. So she looked- she wrote a letter to the council to see if
they would give y- me some sort of grant EOS but nothing ever came of
it. So that- you know I- I think I always felt a bit let down by that,
cos I felt that that was the way that I would have liked to have gone.
And I think it’s quite nice in a way that erm my niece is- **anon** is
erm going in that direction. It’s almost like sort of next step, Do
you remember moving from **anon**? Yeah I do, er don’t remember-
there’s- it’s- it’s sort of snatches really that I remember of
**anon** really. Erm but I remember being very excited when we came to
**anon**. And we came to see the house for the first time and it was
dark, it must been in the winter, because it was EOS Is this **anon**
yeah? yeah because it was just sort of after tea time, and it was
dark. And we’d only ever had a back yard. And then we had the entry
that ran down the side of the house and that was where we used to
play. There was nothing wrong with it, it was just you know. That was
just where we used to play outside. And erm it had this huge big
garden. And the garden was all a bit sort of overgrown and things and
er I went out, and even though it was dark I just wanted to- and as I
was walking along the grass I was doing steps to see how many steps it
would take me to get to the fence. And it just seemed like forever.
Was just huge EOS erm, and I was really excited because erm me mum
said she’d get me a- a swing, erm, which me uncle made cos everything
was made, and er- he made me this swing, that I used to spend hours
on. So I just thought it was just huge, huge great big house, when in
actual fact it wasn’t, it’s just that that’s how it felt. mm, it’s
like we moved erm, when I was s- seven and yeah that was the same sort
of thing- it was- it was a bigger house that we moved to, erm with
three bedrooms whereas the previous house only had two. Erm but again
the garden was a big thing ocs it was quite a large garden. Erm I
remember me dad working on it for months when we first moved in.
Although it was like awesome when we moved in. I remember like the
winter, erm and after the winter he was really out there all the time
and we used to help him get er soil. From the fields at the back, and
put it in wheelbarrows and used to give us like- can’t remember how
much it was now but it wasn’t a lot. And er we used to fill the
wheelbarrow and then bring it and tip it in the back garden. Cos it
was- it was a lot lower than- than he thought it should have been so
er we must’ve put tons in there over the years. But er- he was keen
gardener my dad. He liked his garden didn’t he? mm, yeah he did. And
er the other thing that erm my uncle made me was erm, a wendy house in
the back garden, erm which I really, really liked. And I used to have
little teacups and things like that. So basically then- but as I got
older erm that was when the first time really that I started actually
going- playing outside and going to see friends. Cos I must’ve been
then- well when I was allowed t- to play out, maybe about twelve. So I
never had it when I was younger cos that was just when we were playing
with EOS everybody who was in the house. Erm but then we used to sort
of g- go out then because it was like four years between me and my
next sister. So that would mean that if I was about eleven, **anon**
was about fifteen, and she was obviously EOS not then wanting to play
EOS hide and seek with me. So er- so that’s when we first started
going EOS mm, also there’s quite a lot- Roller skates and things like
that. There’s quite a lot of kids in that area though wasn’t there?
The- Everybody seemed to have- you know, every house pretty much had
kids. There was a few like old dears whose maybe kids had grown up and
gone. But there was a lot of kids in the area at the time. But I think
that’s probably because a lot of people had moved in as EOS Yeah from
different-. Because to move in- to get a council house you generally
had children, didn’t you? Otherwise you might have been moved into a
flat. Yeah that’s quite true yeah. So I think it’s when they were
moving whole communities that that’s where we were all- sort of seemed
to be sort of similar age groups EOS The families seemed to have
children sim- similar ages. mm, everybody’s of a similar erm- like
pay-scale as well, weren’t EOS Everybody was like working- you know
working class. erm, Dads all worked in Trafford Park at the time, or
the majority didn’t they? There was no- erm you know, the odd person
had a car. Which I remember, I must have been about ten or so like,
when we- when- when me dad got a car. Used to have a motorbike and he
had a canal barge EOS which he- him and his friend worked on. I
suppose to get a little bit more money, when I think back. I know he-
he always fancied having a canal barge that he could you know maybe go
on holiday and weekends, but he’s- he tended to spend you know, one
day of the weekend erm working on this boat that I never actually saw,
although I know it was called **anon**. I think I saw it once
actually, but I never saw it float. It was always in dry dock and er-
but I suppose y- you get to meet the other people with boats and what
have you, we actually went on a few boats, for day trips up and down
the Bridgewater canal. And it was- it was nice community, it was
really- everybody- and some had like made sandwiches and there was
always big picnics and this that and the other and other kids to play
with, so that was good fun, it was good times. Again the sun always
seemed to be shining. And it seems funny that- I mean the community- I
mean **anon**, what you looking at, say about four miles away? From-
from **anon**? yeah, and the whole- because whole communities moved at
once, some of our neighbours that were actually on our street- cos it
was a bit of a- quite a large Irish community, wasn’t it in **anon**?
I didn’t really know a lot about **anon**, to be honest. It was erm-
and some of our neighbours, who lived there, actually still live- you
know, in **anon** now. Sort of round the corner cos we all sort of
moved en masse. So erm- it seems funny that although my mum has moved
away, you know she went from **anon** to **anon** and then on- on from
there. That when she comes back to this area, that she’s still bumping
into old EOS Original neighbours from **anon**. Mm, I think a lot of
people were happy when they moved because, they did- like I was saying
before, they did get a garden, which they didn’t have before. And
there did seem to be a bit more space, and-. and also- it was rubbish
when you- when you think about it, you were actually living in rubble.
Well you weren’t your house was in the middle maybe of - And then the
next road had been flattened. So you know it wasn’t good conditions t-
to live in. So- and me mum used to say and I know this wasn’t very
nice and I don’t remember it as a- as a child, but my mum used to say
that there was lots of erm mice EOS erm and I suppose that maybe there
would be. I would imagine yeah, mm EOS So- what do you think- er have
changed or what important changes have taken place in our town? Well I
suppose thinking about it, one of the major changes is the Trafford
centre. Isn’t it? Yeah, course it is, yeah EOS erm, I actually think
EOS it’s probably one of the biggest shopping centres in Europe isn’t
it? Yeah, I mean really it’s- I- and I mean a lot of people don’t like
it, I don’t really know why because I just think it’s erm- it’s
brought a lot of work into the area. Erm people are coming in, so
you’ve got money that’s coming in- into EOS It’s open late - It’s er
ideal for- for us, I mean I just love the fact that it’s round the
corner. Mm, that’s right. Er you’ve got the pictures, you’ve got the
restaurants, so I can’t really see a problem with it at all. No I mean
when they built like the shopping centre at Stretford, the Stretford
Precinct, that’s totally different. People- when it was first built it
was so- people thought it was fantastic, cos you didn’t get wet when
you were shopping, if it was raining you could still wander from shop
to shop. Once you were inside there, you were- you know, you were dry
and erm- but it seemed to like rip the heart out of the centre of
Stretford. Because when it closed, it was like a huge area that you
couldn’t get into, so there was no- whereas if there was- in the old
community, there was pubs and- and- not so much restaurants cos I
don’t think they had like restaurants in those- in our early days, did
they, your Mum and Dad didn’t tend to go out for a meal most weekends.
Cos they didn’t have the money but er it just seemed to be like a big
void in the centre of the town that was only used from nine ‘til six
and then er and then closed. But I think the Trafford centre’s
different because it does involve cinemas and- yeah. Lots of
different- yeah. Things that you can do and it’s not just a shopping
centre it’s- it is a place that-you know, y- you can virtually spend
all day there. Oh God, I did on Saturday. . Yeah and most- most other
Saturdays But yeah that- that has been a big change and erm the
renovation of the centre of Urmston, I think that’s for the- for the
good as well. yeah I do too. Er- and I think they’ve learnt by
mistakes they’ve done in previous place- like Sale. When they did the
centre of Sale and- and they rejuvenated that, the parking’s just a
nightmare, whereas what they’ve done in Urmston I think’s really good.
I’ve not personally struggled to get in and out where- you know, or
find a parking space whereas I know people in Sale, you can drive
round for like three quarters of an hour looking for somewhere to
park. And er with it being free parking as well. Whereas some- some of
these places, like Altrincham, pretty much charge to park, don’t they?
Yeah I mean I know it’s not a finished thing yet but one of the- it-
it’s- it’s good that they’re keeping the- the small shops as well.
Because like- well we’ve got photographs of I don’t know, what a
hundred years ago? Yeah just turn of the century yeah. And it doesn’t-
really there’s parts of it that you would still EOS well, yeah you can
still see which shop- yeah. As being Urmston now and I think that’s
important. Because it- it’s part of the history of the time EOS mm,
but also like I was saying before, you can’t close it off, because
it’s on the street and you know, where there’s coff- coffee you know,
erm, lounges and restaurants then- although they’re not undercover,
pe- I don’t think people are that interested any more so it still is a
town. Whereas I think all these places that they put precincts, they
kind EOS Yeah, but I think there is a community in Urmston. Erm it
think that they’ve got some good schools, which makes people stay in
the same EOS Erm they’ve got good secondary schools so again, you’re
moving from infant, junior to secondary school EOS without the need to
move, that some people do have to move around for EOS good education
for their children, whereas we’re lucky enough to have EOS Erm and so
that sort of makes a communities EOS spirits carry on. Erm local
events, such as that fiesta, Urmston fiesta but even so, it’s still
good. Yeah it’s the start of something that you would hope, in years
to come will get bigger and bigger and EOS more and more people take
part, so it- yeah I think it’s a good idea. Wasn’t there an Urmston
carnival? So you see, it’s things like that, so they are still trying
EOS and of course, you’ve got the round table, you’ve got the rotary.
Is it the round table or the rotary club, I think it’s probably the
same thing actually. Erm, again that’s based in Urmston. So you’ve got
that going on as well. That, you now people going round. You’ve got
lots of social clubs as well. I mean I know we’ve not really- we don’t
really go to them. But you’ve got like the labour club. Which is the
one up the road? **anon** I don’t know if that’s labour or what.
That’s an ex-servicemen’s club. It’s very popular, yeah. Right. Okay
but you’ve got the conservative club up here, you’ve got the one next
to Urmston grammar. You’ve got the new conservative club, yeah, yeah.
So there’s a few places to go. But it’s- it’s funny to think that erm-
in Altrincham people seem to know Urmston. People come in to Urmston
to use the- you know to go to the restaurants. So even though it’s a
teeny tiny place, it’s almost- it’s still a place to come to. Which is
er quite unique I would say EOS Yeah it’s- I think it’s a shame like
the cinema couldn’t have sort of like made it through recession and
what have you, but I just think people- it needed so much money
spending on it, didn’t it? But it- it seems to be thriving as like a
dance-. and you wonder really whether any local cinemas are going to
stay. Yeah there’s not very many left at all. Cos there’s that many
big cinemas now, with all the different. You know erm facilities
really to be able to have so many films on at once, that it’s not
likely. Yeah some of them in the past, you remember like **anon** in
erm-. The what, **anon**? **anon**, that was in **anon**. That was
where I was first gonna take you to see James Dean EOS and then- and
then they pulled it, because they used to do erm say like a James Dean
series or- and they’d- they’d- they’d show his films, or then they’d
show such and such a thing and it was a bit more erm- not just like
run-of-the-mill blockbuster films and just next one and the next one
and the next one. They tended to do like series. They did- they did a
erm, church in Chorlton’s started doing it recently, you know the big
church near erm- the catholic church where- Is it **anon**? Yeah, on
the f- the one on the fork? Yeah the one on the right hand side, that
does- go past that and it’ll have like- seems crazy sometimes, but you
have like gangster series, and it’ll be showing all the ‘Godfathers.’
EOS And it’s- it’s like a- it- it- because it’s in- in the church it-
it’s not run by the church but they obviously use like the church EOS
But there’s always big adverts saying like ‘gang’- all Al Capone films
and this that and the other, all . Yes well they’ve got something like
that in Manchester haven’t they? On the corner h- the what’s it
called? The corner house. The c- the corner house. yeah, that’s right
EOS Yeah where they- rather than just showing mainstream, run-of-the-
mill blockbusters, they er yeah try something different. But it keeps
them op- keeps them going and- and not everybody wants to see Bruce
Willis in his vest. Which I believe he’s brought out a new aftershave.
What we were saying, why would you want to smell like Bruce Willis
looks? In his sweaty vest. do you know what I mean? In his sweaty
vest, yeah. Would you ? How many brothers and sisters do you have? How
long have EOS Well, no I’ve got four haven’t I? I’ve got one brother
and three sisters. And did we get along when we were kids? Generally,
yeah EOS I think you had to EOS Yeah I think we did. Erm **anon** was-
we used to do as we were told with **anon** cos he was always the
babysitter, although he wasn’t the eldest, erm he was the second
eldest. But even **anon** who is the eldest used to do as she was told
from him. So- but apart from that- but he was never horrible, he just
used to erm- if we didn’t get the number right on united’s football
team, on the- . He used to rap your knuckles. He used to shout . Erm I
used to really look forward to Saturday nights because that was when
me mum and me uncle use to go out. They used to go to bingo. And er
they used to- that was when we used to get our spends. So we always
used to get some sweets. and watch whatever we liked on the tv. And
then we always used- they used to come in about ten o’clock and
although I was probably too young then, I used to sort of pretend I
used to join in but I don’t really remember it so I’m sure I was up in
bed before then. Erm but they used to always scuttle up to bed about
ten minutes before they were due home, that was the usual way, well I-
I have two sisters. One three years- three years er older and one
seven years younger so I think- I don’t think there was much planning
in erm- in our **anon** being born. Probably a mistake EOS but er yeah
I- I tended to let them do the girly things and I did the er- did the
lad’s things. So I’ve never been really that close to EOS Do you think
you were spoilt because you were the only boy? why would I- Spoiled?
No not at all, far from it! I’d still have to get up and light the
fire on a Sunday, me sisters didn’t. But they used to do the erm- help
my mum I suppose more with the cooking and-. Did you have to help out
around the house? Erm, no not really I used to er-. Cos you were
spoilt EOS I wasn’t spoilt at all! I- I used to make my own bed . But
I didn’t change the sheets, I think that me mum did that. Probably
every three or four months, whether they needed changing or not. But
er no I didn’t do a lot of housework really, don’t think but I use to
help me dad in the garden. Or I’d be sent off to the shops for you
know, running errands. So it’s not like- I didn’t get away with
anything, just different things. No we used to- we used to have jobs.
But we didn’t think- it wasn’t sort of unfair. Erm mine wasn’t much of
a job, cos I was the little one. So mine was to put the milk bottles
out after they’d been washed. Good God, that’s not-. I know, it wasn’t
difficult. But once-. No did you have to do that every day? Well once
I got into trouble because I went to take the milk bottles out and
this was about seven o’clock after dinner. And erm I was only EOS And
I don’t know what- I think I’ve heard something, some music or
something like that. And decided to go walking to see what the music
was. Only I just actually got lost. I was only little and erm I don’t
remember much about it. I just remember walking and walking and
walking. And then finally being picked up by the police. And the
police brought me home. And I can remember sitting in the police
station sitting on top of a counter, a big counter erm eating
smarties. And I thought it was fantastic. And then I came home in a
police car. Bet you do it every other week then. No I’ve never been in
a police EOS But I don’t really remember- I think I was- must’ve been
very young I’m sure I must’ve only been about four or five. So even
little, really young, I still had a job to do which was the milk
bottles EOS But even after that, we just used to share it really.
Because me mum used to work so our only other job were things like we
always used to erm- I used to vac- we didn’t used to have a vac, we
used to have erm, what are they called? And the Ewbank- I used to have
a- my job was to do that every night, which was just the rugs really.
C And erm **anon** job was to- oh no that was **anon** job was to peel
the spuds. I can’t remember what- I’m sure **anon** used to get off
scot- free. No, I’m sure she didn’t, but anyway. So that was er- we
all had a job each. And it was generally to make the tea EOS for when
me mum came home. And then me mum used to finish it off EOS Yeah my
mum used to work, and erm, and me dad used to work shifts. So if he
was home first he pretty much just sat there and waited for me mum to
come home. But then years later he changed, I don’t know- became a
modern man. And actually half got- my mum would half get the tea ready
before she went and he- he’d put the tea on knowing- cos she was
always home at the same time cos she only worked across the road. Erm
knowing that she’d be home at six, me dad would start tea at like
twenty to six, or so and- and it was virtually ready when me mum came
EOS and then she would er serve it up. I mean the thing is, it’s- it’s
qu- you know like everyone now is like sort of, if they’ve got a big
family it’s all a big deal of how they gonna feed them and they need
to be on all sorts of benefits. But really, my mum used to just do
big, cheap, nutritious meals EOS that would put some people to shame I
think now. You know I mean great big- er we always used to have like a
proper meat and veg or erm if we were gonna have fish it was that
smoked finny haddock, cos it’s cheap. Or she used to make great big
stews always- it always used to be something like a casserole, or
something like that. Or the one thing that I used to love that she did
was er mince beef and onion pie. And she used to do this huge great
big thing and then we used to have that with new potatoes that came
from a tin, which is funny. Don’t know why she used to do that. But I
think they must have been cheap. But they were like little bullets,
they were horrible. Yeah I re- I remember the things you mean. But I
don’t think- we didn’t have them much. erm, yeah but we always used to
have this big minced beef and onion pie, which was just lovely. so, er
I think she did these ti- those tinned potatoes EOS yeah food you
didn’t have so much choice. as like a treat really. But I d- never
used to like them. You used to get those people who used to buy er-
pies in a tin. You think- they used to just steam them didn’t they? We
never had them cos they were from-. No we didn’t cos there were too
many of us so- we would’ve had to have all these tins. some people
would have them, and they were made by goblin. Goblin EOS And you
basically you just I think you pricked a hole in it and then put it in
a pan of boiling water. I remember when erm Vesta curries first came
in. Oh yeah, that was-. And er **anon** and **anon** used to have them
cos it was like really EOS And er I used to just- the smell of curry
was really quite different. Can you imagine my dad? And I used to
think he was so modern, **anon**, you know, really hippy having this
curry. Mm, We used to buy them but my dad used to go mad cos obviously
he’d- he’d never had anything like that. And just the smell of that,
he- yeah, erm, He weren’t very popular, but there was a Chinese one as
well. There was like a noodle one. Chow mein, that’s the one **anon**
used to have. Chow mein that’s it. And it had like crisps on the top,
like quavers. that’s it, yeah, yeah EOS And she used to sizzle them in
the chip pan. I just used to think that was- but I didn’t ever think
that I was grown up enough EOS to have these, I think I used to think
it was something, ‘when I’m a teenager, I’m going to have a curry.’
EOS but I can remember pizzas as well. When **anon** was at school she
must’ve been about fourteen or so, she made this pizza. And it was
like pretty much the first time I’d ever had pizza, but it wasn’t-
wasn’t like a pizza, it was like you know, flour, just- it was like
erm- more like a-. Like a bread base or something. Yeah, yeah but it
was really, really thick bread with like cheese and tomato on it, or
tomato puree. Like cheese on toast EOS Yeah it was yeah, but with
tomato puree, you know like **anon** makes now. And it was erm- that
was it but it just had like a little bit of erm, green or yellow
pepper which was really like unheard of at the time. And erm me mum
used to love it when **anon** made that, she used to- you know
especially when she used to make it at school and then bring it home.
And then heat it up again for tea, it was like, you felt like you were
really continental. You know, ‘we don’t need the chip pan tonight.’
EOS Cos pretty much everything I think involved chips I think as well.
No well it did sometimes for us but we’d have these- I wonder where
the hell she got those tinned potatoes from? Because they were just
there all the time. mm, I know we- we used to have like boil- boiled
potatoes. And things like that and obviously like we used to- we’d
have like Sunday roast but we did- I think we had quite a lot of
chips. Although, we were quite skinny kids, I don’t know why- why we
weren’t big fatties. Perhaps we ran it all off. I can remember when
erm- I know it’s- well you wouldn’t even think it now, but when
yoghurts first came in. When it first came in, I mean you know when it
started getting EOS And er it was ski yoghurts, they were the ones to
have. And er me mum used to do a weekly shop. And as a treat, like you
would bring home a cream cake, it would be, ‘right would you like a
yoghurt? Which one would you like?’ EOS And I would always have
strawberry. And **anon** would always have EOS And I used to think- I
used to feel a bit sorry for her because clearly strawberry was going
to be the best. no, we didn’t have yoghurts. Didn’t ever- I can’t ever
remember having a yoghurt when I was a kid. I was probably about
sixteen, seventeen before I saw a yoghurt. I don’t think- yeah
definitely. Used to have quite a lot of carnation milk. And tinned
fruit. Tinned- yeah tinned. Everybody had- I think everyone had like
tinned pears and-. Tinned pears, yeah. Mixed fruit, like oranges and
apples all chopped up. Well going back to these tinned potatoes, me
uncle used to bring home, and I think it’s from bingo, I’m not quite
sure where he got them from. And it was trays and trays of tins. Only
they didn’t have labels on them. Well they did but they were all
white. So you didn’t actually know what you were having. So you might
have opened it, hoping for some peaches and it would be a tin of
carrots. Or something like that . So sometimes- so then if you’d
opened a couple of tins of carrots, looking for your peaches,
obviously that was what your meal would have been the next day.
Something with- and that’s how we used to work it. I tell you what we
used to buy- did you have- ever have the er EOS We used to get those
in tins, they were great those, they were EOS No. Never used to have
anything like that. Me mum was a bit funny about sausages. Which is
probably why I’m a bit funny about them now, and she still doesn’t eat
them. No these were great. They were full of Es and everything. yeah,
yeah, no, she- she- there was every E in the world was in those. We
never had anything like that, not that we did anything that was
horrible or anything, the food we had was lovely but-. We never had
things like beefburgers or anything because we didn’t have a fridge,
that was the reason as well. Although I know those are tinned EOS Cos
erm we just used to keep everything in the pantry, which was cold and
then in the summer the milk used to be in big saucepans of cold water.
We used to just have to change the water, make it cold. It used to
work I don’t remember anything being- going off. No but you used to
pretty much shop- you didn’t like weekly shop did you in those days,
it was- it was EOS No, cos it was not really big supermarkets, was it,
it was just like your local shops really. Mm, but I know we used to
have er cereals as well. I remember when it all- all these new cereals
came out, like ricicles and rice crispies. And this- you always tried-
when a new one came out on tv you always wanted to try it. Pretty much
like you with anything new that comes on the tv these days. within a
week, we’ve got one! do you want to do something else? one, two, three EOS one, two, three EOS perfect, when you’re ready
EOS erm, I already know the answer to this question, but how many
brothers and sisters have you got EOS erm, two sisters, one brother
EOS yeah, well, Mum got with a new step-dad didn’t she, and after
about a month or so she was pregnant so EOS but **anon**, she’s four
EOS four now, bloody hell, that’s been a long time EOS think she’s
four EOS since erm, when we was in Scouts wasn’t it? yeah it was, when
was that? About eight years ago? God, I can’t even remember, was it
longer than that? was back in two thousand four? at the latest EOS was
you in Salford Scouts or was it just explorers? Was in Salford Scouts
as well? yeah, yeah, well hundredth Salford wasn’t it EOS hundredth,
ah, you were the enemy EOS was you? so what’ve you got, you’ve got
**anon** EOS **anon**, **anon**, and **anon** EOS how old’s- how old’s
**anon** now? he’s four years younger than me, so he’s EOS I remember
him when he was about, like EOS oh no, is it nineteen, might- it’s
nineteen, sorry EOS I remember him when he was God, how old was he,
about eleven or something like that EOS don’t even see him anymore,
he’s w- he’s like a bit emo, he’s EOS is he? Is he? big hole in his
ear, his hair’s a mess EOS he looks like a skunk actually cos he’s
dyed the ends blonde at some EOS what, off power rangers EOS power
rangers? oh dear EOS erm actually, I think I seen your Granddad
actually when I was doing erm, when I was on the cavity wall
insulation EOS yeah, I think you said you went to try and sell it off
EOS yeah, I like I knocked on his hou- I knocked on- I knocked his
house and erm I sa- I saw him go in the house so I went, ‘oh, there’s
Lewis’ **anon** Grandad’ EOS went to knock on the house EOS no answer
he just- probably saw you down the street, ‘oh, he’s trying to sell me
summet’ EOS yeah, just- just ignoring me EOS ahh don’t know how many
brothers and sisters you got, I think, I’ve got one brother, one
sister EOS I didn’t know you had- oh yeah, I did I knew you had a
brother, he’s a younger brother isn’t he? your sister older than you?
me sister’s erm, sister’s seventeen EOS **anon** erm, **anon**- he’s
nearly twenty one now EOS yeah, he’s going aw- he’s going on holiday
for his birthday and erm EOS oh, where’s he going? he’s going to erm,
is it Cos EOS yeah, but he failed to invite me so EOS that was a bit
cheeky wasn’t it? what, he’s just invited his mates? yeah, just going
with all his mates cos he’s- he’s good mates with erm, you know
everyone that we work with at **anon** EOS erm, so he’s going with a
lot of them, all of his mates from- from erm from when he was a, you
know, doing his bricklaying EOS and stuff like that, so EOS is he
still doing that? no, he’s just doing- he’s working at **anon** with
us, isn’t he EOS oh right, okay EOS erm, doing a bit of- he works more
in the kitchen and does a bit of driving work as well, you know like a
little bit of a EOS like assistant chef yeah EOS so he’s not doing
bad, but he said he wants to get back into the erm, to the building
but erm, the last- the last guy that he worked for was an absolute
arsehole EOS and erm, so he’s just put him off, you know, like the guy
lived in, up Bolton way EOS and he used to have to be at this guys
house for about erm, used to have to be there for half six in the
morning EOS Jee- yeah, I remember you saying that EOS and this was
before- this was before he could drive EOS he had to get the train or
something EOS so he had to like, get the bus at like half five in the
morning, and you know, if he was late, the guy wouldn’t wait for him
so EOS I think he just kind of thought ‘sack that, I’m not- I don’t
wanna be working in the bricklaying anymore’ sorta thing, but, but
I’ve been trying to tell him, you know, he needs to get back into it
cos he can’t EOS stay at **anon** ‘til forever and ever more, the
longer you’re out of EOS yeah, you’ll it won’t you EOS the harder
it’ll be to get back into it EOS well he’s had his like, first job, so
that’s the hardest bit isn’t EOS when- then you can get references EOS
whereas our **anon** useless EOS he hasn’t had a job yet he’s- well,
he said he’s applied he d- he dropped out of college EOS what college
was he at? he w- he w- he was at **anon** and then he dropped out of
that and I think he applied for **anon** EOS and I don’t think he went
for the first day EOS and then just, didn’t go EOS what was he doing
at- at **anon**? erm, he was doing Computing, he was doing, is it
Cisco, is that what you were doing? yeah, I think he was doing that,
but he said the- the teachers are EOS nah, yeah, it was basically- all
it was, was erm, online modules sorta- sorta thing EOS so we just used
to sit there in front of a computer for an hour just reading through
these, you know, all these modules EOS yeah, and then just doing the
test EOS and then, like, yeah, and then at the end of each module you
have to have a test and there was no sort of like teaching involved in
it, there was like, it was just, you know, you just sit there and read
it, I think the only thing we did erm, you know, practical stuff, cos
it was all to do with networking and computers and stuff like that, we
learnt how to, you know like y- when you get your Ethernet cables? we
learnt how to make them EOS oh right, that’s alright EOS and we learnt
to strip a computer down, and then put it back together, they were the
only things we did for the whole two years EOS so, there’s no wonder I
did- I didn’t erm, I didn’t pass it, cos when, you like, you’d
complete all your modules and then at the end of it you have to take a
EOS you know, like a test covering all the modules EOS so, and then if
you fail that test you have to pay for it to do it EOS oh my God EOS
so I failed it and I thought, ‘no’ EOS ‘I’m not even bothering’ EOS
‘I’m not- I’m not even going back’ but you have- it’s like something
like sixty pound a go EOS and you know, back when I was working on
four pound an hour in- in EOS sixty pound was quite a bit of money EOS
how did you do in your Electronics? erm, Electronics in the end, I
come out with erm, a D EOS so, better than nothing isn’t it EOS erm,
Music Technology, I only- I scrapped that after the first year EOS
yeah, cos you pick four four equivalent A-levels don’t you, and then
drop one or something EOS well no, basically I dropped it because it
was, just- I just didn’t like the tutors at all, like you know at-
when I was in school I was into all me drums and stuff EOS and I like
loved music, but then as soon as I got to college just, I don’t know
what- I don’t know what, but it’s just changed my, like erm, opinion
of erm, you know, trying to be a a musician sort of thing EOS oh,
that’s a shame EOS I don’t regret it really though I was just too lazy
to EOS who’s your favourite high- high school teacher then? favourite
high school teacher? don’t think I had one EOS I don’t- I don’t- I
don’t think I had- I don’t think many people- probably **anon** to be
honest you know with Music EOS I- I rarely had him though, I had,
what’s the other one called, I think she was called **anon** or
something but EOS I don’t remember her EOS she- I think she was only
there for like a year EOS yeah, I know but cos- cos he was a drummer
as well, you know, he like really encouraged me and and erm, you know,
he used to help me out wherever he could EOS yeah I still see him
about cos he works for Salford Council now EOS you know for Ma- for
Mapas, Music and Performing Arts of Salford or something like that,
erm, so I- I see him about, you know when I’m dropping stuff off at
different places EOS so I still speak to him now and again he was erm,
decent do you- what was the worst thing you ever got into trouble for
EOS it probably wasn’t the worst thing but he really annoyed me, he
was erm in RE he was our RE teacher, I can’t remember if it was a
woman she was- she was horrible, but EOS it was one of them subjects
that you just don’t pay attention to EOS yeah, she complained at me
for me handwriting at some- at one week or something, and then the
next week she gave me detention cos me handwriting was still bad and
I’m like EOS ahh, the worst- I got in trouble for a couple of things,
when we was in erm, year seven erm, I thought I’d be a bit with erm,
thought I’d be a little bit of erm, mischievous erm and then me and
**anon**, me and **anon** and **anon** used to all mess about in erm,
in Science class, this was year ten, year ten or eleven EOS we always
used to mess about in Science and erm, basically you know along the
Science benches EOS used to get like the wooden bits along the front,
and **anon** snapped EOS so of course, you heard this like big
cracking sound EOS teacher looks across to us all and we’re all there,
like rolling our EOS and the next- so he turns back, carries on with
what- what he’s doing and the next thing you know, I’ve got this piece
of wood in me hand and **anon** just head-butts it EOS like, snaps it
in half, and then the teacher looks round again, and I’m sat there
with like two pi- two pieces of wood in my hand EOS and erm, we both
got te- detention for that and erm, you EOS yeah, oh, **anon** EOS we-
yeah, we- we were in erm, doing detention and he- and he comes in and
he goes, ‘surprised to see you here lads, wh- what you in here for?’
and, you know what **anon** like, he just like burst out laughing, and
I’m just sat there dead straight faced and he just went, ‘smashed a
piece of wood over his head’ EOS like that it’s what it is- but that
was one of worst things I ever got in de- in trouble for I reckon so
are your Mum and Dad from Salford? From Manchester area? erm my Mum
grew up where my Gran and Granddad are now EOS are they in **anon**
still, in **anon** EOS in, **anon** yeah, erm, my Dad grew up in
**anon** EOS right, still Manchester area EOS yeah, but **anon**,
stepdad, I think his Mum’s part Prussian- Persian- is it East German
or summet? or, on the edge of something and then he lives- he lived in
Wales, and in Liverpool EOS and then he moved over here so he’s got
the weirdest accent EOS it’s like, he doesn’t- he went to the chippy
and I was like, ‘ah, get us a chip barm’, he went, ‘what’s a chip
barm?’, ‘like, you know, barm, with chips in it’ EOS he was like,
‘don’t have a clue what you’re on about’ EOS I showed it him, and he
went, ‘oh, that’s a chip batch’ EOS a chip batch? like, what’s a
batch? ah, people from other places, they call it weird things don’t
they EOS it’s like, you know like I’ve got family that live in, in
erm, in EOS they- they erm, they’re baffled by, literally, you know
like Peter Kay says it on- on his thingy, but they are baffled by like
chips and EOS they just don’t have it like, my- my Aunty who’s from up
here, she has it all the time but like, the kids they don’t eat it, I
love chips and gravy EOS yeah, it’s the best meal EOS and every time
you go down and you’re like, you know, if you go to the chippy, ‘can I
have chips and gravy’ they’ll just give you like, a portion of chips
and a portion of gravy, they won’t give it you together, if- if you
want to eat it now EOS really? That’s well weird, ah where’s your
favourite chippy? I can only think of two there’s **anon** or **anon**
EOS the salt and pepper chips they’re nice EOS but the one on, you
know on the **anon**, what’s it called now, it’s a Chinese chippy on
erm, you know on the **anon**? yeah used to go there school EOS yeah,
the one right at the end EOS yeah, I can’t remember what it’s called
now, not been there for a while but that’s nice as well what was your
erm, what was your first job after leaving school? I worked in Costa
Coffee EOS oh you did, didn’t you? working with **anon** and that EOS
nah, it wasn’t with **anon**- you worked in Trafford Centre didn’t
you? yeah, I was at the Trafford Centre one EOS God, I forgot about
that EOS cos that, well, it’s like, went up to the manager and it’s
like, ‘oh, I was thinking like, I want a job, erm, can I have an
interview or something’ he’s like EOS ‘oh yeah, just come down’, cos
like I didn’t have to give my CV in or EOS I went down, and he- he- he
just went, ‘do you know what, I like you’ EOS he’s like, ‘you can have
a job’ turned out he was a raving nutter, but EOS he, yeah, he didn’t
hire anybody else on and then he had a like a mental breakdown or
something, so there’s like, only six of us who work there, like I
think the hours were something like eight ‘til ten everyday, and then
he left, and it was just like us fending EOS it was horrendous EOS
that in the Trafford Centre, yeah? bloody hell, I remember my- my
first job working in- in Trafford, I went to you know when the job-
when the job centre used to behin- be behind the big screen EOS do you
remember when it used to be there? I went in there, you know, like
looking for jobs and- and the guy that- that was erm running it, sort
of thing he said, ‘yeah, they’ve got this one in BHS here’ erm, you
know, ‘fill out this application form’, so I filled it out EOS and he
said that there’s supposed to be a questionnaire to go with it EOS you
know that, you know, to see what your opinions are on stuff, he said,
‘we’ve not got an- any in at the moment but erm, when it comes in I’ll
fill it out for you and hand it in’ EOS and then, so I- I- I ended up
erm getting- going- going for the interview erm, getting the job EOS I
don’t- I don’t remem- I don’t remember if I’ve told you this but you
know when you go for your induction sort of thing EOS erm, there was-
there was about eight or ten of us sat round this big table, and it
was near- near the Christmas erm, period when I EOS so they had some
of the things that they used to sell on Christmas EOS and erm, no word
of a lie, they had a vibrator on the table EOS so we were all sat
there going ‘what kind of, erm, company have we come to work for
here?’ EOS was it a Christmassy one? yeah, the- I don’t- I can’t- I
honestly can’t remember EOS but- and when like, the Christmas shop
came in they used to sell like, you know, like adult stuff like that,
like flavoured EOS condoms and everything like that, which was kind of
weird, when EOS sixteen and you’re like EOS I don’t think I applied to
work in Ann Summers EOS what was your favourite subject, like, of all
time, apart from Music EOS apart from Music? God I loved History when
I was at school EOS oh, we had- what’s he called, that teacher, the
ginger one? oh, he was quality EOS yeah, he was- he was a good History
tea- and we had erm, what was the other one called as well? The one
that really pale with black hair, ahh, no- no I’m thinking of a man I
think he was the EOS **anon** or something, no- he was Science wasn’t
he EOS **anon**, yeah, and EOS I don’t know who she was EOS what was
she called, **anon**, was that the one? And she got married EOS I
remember the name, but I don’t think I ever had her EOS yeah, yeah,
she wasn’t bad either but yeah I used to love erm, History and History
and Music was about it really, everything else I just used to loathe
EOS what about you? oh, I like, I liked the Sciencey ones but I didn’t
like the teachers EOS yeah, Science was okay but EOS and I didn’t like
Maths either, was like, really geeky in it EOS I didn’t like Maths, we
had erm, is it **anon** EOS oh, she was horrendous EOS we had **anon**
at first, and she just used to shout at me for just being in me bag
all the time EOS it’s just, like- it wasn’t in it, I just had it open,
I was asleep on the desk with me head in it EOS but yeah, **anon** and
erm, cos me and **anon** used to sit next to each other EOS I can
imagine EOS so and it was, you know, right near the back of the class
so we were always up to no good EOS and yeah, just, so she just used
to- she never used to like us I don’t think so that didn’t make it any
better but yeah, Science, I reckon cos it was a pretty run down school
by the- by the time we was there EOS it was shocking, wasn’t it? so
they never used to have any Science equipment L; they had Bunsen
burners, that was it, Bunsen bur- Bunsen burners EOS but we were
banned from them, cos we always used to set things on EOS and the clay
mats that were all like superglued back together EOS cause people had
been smashing them EOS so yeah what else, what else, what else, what
else, can you remember any good stories that your grandparents or your
parents used to tell you? no, they’re all crap EOS they just tell you
rubbish, don’t they, like if I start talking to my Gran she’ll- she
just won’t shut up EOS she’ll just carry on, she’ll get slightly on a
tangent, and then she’ll move straight onto it, and then- I think a
lot of Gran’s are like that aren’t they EOS go in a circle well EOS
cause my- my Gran, cos she lives down in Southend with my Aunty and
erm, so she- all the time she’s on the phone to me Mum and me Mum’s
sat there like that you know, trying to get off the phone cos she’s
just going on, and on, and on EOS it’s really hard as well isn’t it,
cos they don’t give you a break EOS I know you c- you can’t tell them-
you can’t tell them to you know, you don’t know what to EOS ‘hanging
up now, bye’ EOS yeah, ‘I’ve got to go now’, ‘just a minute, just a
minute’ EOS ‘just let me tell you this’ EOS ‘me kitchen’s on fire, can
I go?’, ‘no’ EOS yeah she phoned up the other night, you know when all
these riots were on, on the precinct EOS she phoned up to see if me
Dad was working but erm, he wasn’t thankfully, he answered the phone
going, ‘hold on a minute, hold on a minute, erm, I’m just beating
these muggers off from the door’ EOS she’s dead- she’s dead- he’s a
firefighter your Dad isn’t he? yeah, fireman, yeah I always remember
random stories he used to tell me when- when I was a kid but the one
that sticks out most is just like when, he’s got a picture of it
actually, w- him and one of his, erm, the lads that he first started
working with, erm like, this building’s on fire and there’s just got a
picture of them ru- both running away from this bi- w- brick wall
that’s collapsing EOS that was pretty- pretty cool erm, picture and
story to go with it EOS my Mum’s just a bit of a looser, eh, you know
her don’t you? do you see her that often with your job now cos, before
when you were first doing in you her saw quite a lot when she worked
on **anon** didn’t you cos you did some of the- y- yeah, erm, I’ve not
seen her for a while actually, erm, you know, cos with all the council
cuts EOS well, everything’s been scaled back, I mean, when I first
started doing the driving erm, you know, we used to be really busy
everyday, you know, like with like ten or twelve jobs to do everyday,
but now, we’re down to about two or three EOS you know, on a good day
you’ll be like, you’ll have like one big job for like eighty people
and that’s considered a busy day now EOS whereas like, back when we
first started you know, used to do like six jobs for twenty people, so
so it has- it has erm, you know, been scaled back a lot with all the
cuts so it’s kind of erm, no, I don’t see- I don’t see- I’ve not seen
her for a while I don’t think- she’s not been to- up to **anon** for a
while I don’t- yeah, well, she used to work at **anon** but then she
moved to **anon** round the corner so I’m not sure they do the same
sort of thing EOS right what d- what- yeah, what like, what years does
she teach sort of thing EOS she’s early so it’s nursery mainly EOS but
sometimes she does a bit of reception EOS yeah, my Mum teaches erm,
like reception she just erm, their school’s just been closed down and
th- you know, they’ve got a EOS erm, what’s it called, ‘**anon**’ or
something like that EOS oh, yeah, that’s where **anon** goes EOS no,
not **anon** erm, it’s- that’s what Seedy **anon** went to, wasn’t it
EOS it’s called, erm, it’s down by the river believe it or not EOS
erm, so yeah, th- do you know the school where she worked EOS it’s
like, hundred and fifteen years old or something like that EOS and it
is like, falling apart EOS you know, you so it’s about time they got a
new one, I think they’re, you know, merging a couple of schools EOS
like they did- they’re doing that everywhere aren’t they? yeah, like
they did with ours when EOS I think it’s horrendous EOS was it- was it
**anon** that closed wasn’t it, and they merged- some dodgy Broughton
people living here EOS merged some of ours and some with- with
**anon** bad times, when they- all the scrotes come EOS did you ever-
ever get hurt when you was playing as a kid? ever get hurt? No, I-
I’ve never broke a bone in my body EOS yeah erm, the worst thing
that’s ever happened, and it sounds really naff, is erm, just pushing
my, you know, like a push bike EOS along, and erm, for some reason
this- this lad that used to live round the corner, erm, he come up and
he was just- just messing about like, just like kicked the back tyre,
sort of thing, and you know the- the cogs where your chain goes EOS
like, dug right into my leg so, got a big- big scar on my leg where
that was from EOS I had to go hospital and have stitches for that,
that was about the worst thing that ever- ever happened to me EOS ahh
we had erm, the old Scouts, some of them were like messing around in
our house EOS cos like, legged it to the back door to like try and
lock them out, just messing about, and I ran past the ironing board
and kicked the leg of it EOS and broke me toe EOS that was probably
the worst I did, erm, I fell out a tree at one point and cracked me
elbow like, cracked the bone in it EOS ah, but, I wasn’t that bad cos-
no, I don’t think- you don’t really use it much EOS I think I’ve had a
couple of burns and stuff when I was a kid but nothing nothing worth
speaking about really, just the EOS scar on my leg from an idiot down
the street EOS erm, whereabouts did you used to play when you- when
you were a EOS erm, well we used to live in **anon**- yeah, erm, so
there was erm, just some like- where all the houses go round, there
was like a little patch in the middle which was just like, gravel EOS
used to play in there a lot but it’s just- it was just full of crap,
like, what- bits of broken wood with nails in it, used to go back with
EOS bit of wood with a nail in your foot EOS my brother’s done that
Mum was like, ‘oh, gotta take you to hospital for a tetanus’ and all
this EOS get over it Mum, just wipe it up with an alcohol free wipe
EOS but we used to have erm, where I used to live on erm, do you
remember the **anon** Church on the- on the- on the high- it was like
a really old old church, like, pretty big church EOS and we used to
play on the grounds there but then they knocked it all down and built
houses over it erm, with like a- just a smaller church to the side and
we used to just like, used to have like, you know like the massive
fences along, erm EOS so- but we dug like a little hole so we could s-
like slide under the- under the fence EOS and we built a little tree
house in the- in the corner EOS ahh, that’s well cool EOS and erm, we
used to get the vicar coming out, you know, like, shouting at us,
going, ‘get off’ and, you know, private land EOS and obviously,
playing in- never went down to Buille Hill Park really, but like, Oaks
Park EOS yeah, Lightoaks is a lot nicer isn’t it? it’s got its little
pond in it EOS yeah, but erm, I remem- I remember learning to ride my
bike in- in Buille Hill park though EOS oh, I remember that, yeah, my
Granddad used to go- round the park with us, and you used to have your
stabilisers on EOS tried it with stabilisers and now I couldn’t do it,
but, like, I was like, ‘I really want to ride it without the
stabilisers’ but every time he tried I just fell off, and then one
day, one of the stabilisers fell off EOS like, on its own accord, I
was like, ‘fine’, so, he took the other one off I thought it was
pretty good EOS really? I remember when my Dad who’s like, you know,
like running along behind, holding the seat so I wouldn’t wobble, and
then EOS I just remember going, ‘w- why am I wobbling so much g- get
hold of the seat’, and tu- turned around an me Dad was like EOS a-
miles away, I’d been riding the bike and I didn’t- you know, didn’t
even know that’s the first time I remember EOS if you could talk to
your young self now you could say, ‘centrifugal inertia, and you can
pedal faster and you’ll be alright’ EOS yeah ahh, they talk about that
word all the time don’t EOS it’s true though like when- like on me
bike when I’m going round corners, you know, or j- or like you’re
trying to do a u- turn, the faster y- you, obviously not like twenty
mile an hour but, the faster you’re going, then it- the easier it is
to manoeuvre it EOS did you ever do any extra extra activities at erm,
in school or college when we used to have to do erm, what was it
called now? I did circus skills with **anon** EOS circus skills with-
I did a bit of that EOS what did I do? I think I used to do something
with music, you know erm, learning to play another instrument, I
started to learn how to play guitar but you know, drums was the way
forward for me, thought, ‘chords, what are these?’ EOS didn’t have a
clue EOS I did do boules at erm, High School EOS oh yeah, I remember
**anon**- was it **anon** EOS yeah, he was a right weirdo EOS he u- he
used to teach that didn’t he EOS yeah, was pretty good actually,
enjoyed that EOS I was rubbish at it EOS I don’t think I ever used to
do anything in- in a High School EOS there wasn’t really much to do
was there EOS no, I used to play a lit- little bit of rugby but I
never stuck at it really EOS you know, cos my Dad used to play, my Dad
used to play for erm, Salford Reds Juniors EOS and he erm, did like
tours in France and Germany and all that when they were- when he was
like, when he was like nineteen, twenty erm, he did like you know,
like tours in France and stuff, and I remember him always telling me
about the coach got erm, you know, got EOS and erm, him and one of his
mates decided to stay in France with him EOS you know, while he got
better EOS so they just had a hol- they just had like a EOS think it
was like a three or four week holiday just messing about, something
like that EOS that’s well good what do you think of the local people
in your EOS what, in Salford? well, after erm, was it Tuesdays EOS
erm, incidents, not a lot really EOS it was just a small minority of
it, spoiling it for people wasn’t it? was anything bad near you? I
live- I live fairly near to the Salford precinct where it was- all
taking place, you could see, there was a couple of cars on f- that
they’d burnt out, think it was like the Manchester Radio car EOS erm,
then they’d, you know like, tipped it over and burnt it out, you could
see the smoke for miles erm, and my girlfriend, she’s EOS so we- so we
had to go for a drive round didn’t we EOS so we went for a li- for a
little drive round and you know, like all the roads to the precinct
there’s just like, lines of li- riot police EOS erm, and they all
looked knackered EOS they’d been stood there for ages EOS you know,
without a break, felt sorry for them, one of my Mum’s friends erm, he
works erm, you know, training and co-ordinating the riot police EOS so
he was- he was like up for like forty-eight hours straight or
something daft like that EOS it was erm- it was all madness wasn’t it
though, but I think there’s erm, like I say, just a lot of people
spoiling it for the majority, a lot of people in Salford are decent
people EOS erm, just erm, what was it- cos I was watching erm is it
Question Time with young voters last night and erm, it was saying
that, you know, there’s a lot of erm EOS you know, it’s not just
people you know, being idiots, there is a lot of underlying problems
that they think is the cause EOS there are broken families and all
this erm, did you hear what H- Hazel Blears said? In h- ahh, I was
listening on the radio, I wanted to turn it off she just- in erm, was
it in the houses of parliament where she said erm, you know, ‘why
aren’t- why aren’t your kids in school’ and it’s like, it’s the summer
holidays EOS ahh, but erm, watching- watching the news as well with-
I’m sure the- the news people just go around and find the most stupid
people to talk EOS I know, they do EOS the stupidest people to talk to
and, you know, give interviews to and, you know, you can see why half
of them haven’t got jobs EOS the way- the way they talk and act EOS
there was one that I was listening to and he- he’s like this black guy
and he- he was like, ‘so, why are you rioting’, and he went, ‘oh, it’s
just the police, I hate the police, cos they- they hate us, they can’t
stand the colour of our skin, we’re like, black and Asian and they
don’t even care about their own colour skin’, it’s like, they’re not
being racist then are they, they’re just, like you, plad EOS they’re
just- they’re just stupid aren’t they see that guy that was in
Manchester city centre with his erm, with his t-shirt pulled up over
his face and his- and his sunglasses on, and he was like, ‘the police
can’t touch us today can they it’s free reign’ thought, ‘oh’ I was
just watching it and I was EOS what’s the point EOS what are they-
what do they think they’re gonna achieve, you know, if they wanted to
vent their anger I’m sure they would find better ways than erm,
smashing up their own communities did you hear erm, TJ Hughes on the
precinct, the- they’ve closed it down now EOS have they, oh EOS
because erm, you know cos it got that badly damaged in the riots EOS
erm, they just decided that they can’t afford to erm, you know, repair
it all, so they’ve just closed it down, so they’re just ruining
prospects for people in their own community really aren’t they? you
know, that’s about, how many people do you reckon are working there,
fifteen, twenty people, that’ve just lost their jobs EOS they now are
jobless, yeah EOS so they’re just adding to their own problems and-
they just don’t think about it do they EOS it’s erm, it’s all stupid I
d- I don’t see why they were rioting anyway, I think they were just
EOS just any excuse for them EOS copy- copy cat riots from, you know,
cos I think in London it was all to do with that guy getting shot
wasn’t it EOS erm, but up here, they j- they had no reason at all did
they really, they were just copying it, getting away with it cos th-
you know, because they could get away with it so but erm, watching a
few erm, videos you know, that have been posted on youtube of people
getting arrested EOS and erm, what do you reckon- what do you reckon
about erm, you know, if people do get convicted then they should loose
their EOS I reckon that’s quality, and loose their house, everything
EOS that’s a good idea EOS at- see I- at first I- I thought that, you
know, yeah, cos they shouldn’t have been involved in the riots and why
should the tax payer have to, you know, pay for the clean up EOS pay
for all the damage, yeah EOS and pay for them who have caused the mess
EOS but then I was watching when I was watching the- that programme
last night and it was saying, you know, erm, is it not EOS gonna cos
more problems cos these people that are already on low incomes or no
incomes have got, you know, nowhere to go, so are they not just gonna
start causing more trouble than all this EOS so, there’s a bit of a
argument for both sides of it really isn’t EOS deport them, yeah L;
yeah, send them all somewhere else EOS just make them live on a small
island EOS or Australia, like back in the day EOS did you see that
about the- was it that e-petitions where they’re trying to get erm,
you know, the death sentence brought back sort of thing EOS aren’t
they all mad aren’t they? well, I think it’d be quite good cos it’ll
get like- jail’s like blocked up anyway EOS if you get one’s that are
stuck there for life anyway, what’s the point in them being around EOS
that’s very true very true erm I don’t think it’ll deter anybody
though cos, you can imagine, in America they still have high crime
rates, it doesn’t really deter anybody does it EOS no, I suppose not
EOS with- with criminals it’s erm, when they’re committing acts of,
erm, they don’t really think about the consequences do they, they
don’t think, ‘oh, I’m gonna get banged up for twenty years for
smuggling ten pound- ten million pounds worth of class A’ or whatever
they just want to do it because they’re greedy aren’t they, or- yeah,
but if they do get rid of them then we’re not paying to house them in
jails as well, so it’ll make it cheaper for us EOS should bring back
the cane in schools, and let police beat everyone up it’ll be great
EOS that’s another one of the topics that was on that programme last
night, he was saying that, you know, how can you expect these, you
know, these kids, to respect the police when- they can’t- the police
can’t do anything EOS they don’t even respect- they don’t even respect
their own Mums’ and EOS and you’re taking the powers away from the-
from the Mums’ and Dads’ to, you know, enforce that respect, because
you know, even smacking a child is frowned upon and EOS stuff isn’t
it, you were saying that- can’t shout at anyone without ending up in
prison EOS yeah, yeah, too erm, too P-C, politically correct, isn’t
it, you know it’s all- it’s human rights and all that crap EOS
bollocks in my opinion EOS never did me any harm EOS no, it’s good EOS
get- getting a smack round the back of the legs EOS oh, I always
thought back of the head was worse EOS no, no, trust me, the back of
the legs was worse you know, especially coming from my Dad EOS I can
imagine EOS he’s massive isn’t he? that was erm, fun times when I was
a kid, well I d- I don’t get people that, you know, it’s never aff-
it’s never affected me in- in any way, any- anybody that I know that
got you know, a clip round the ear once in a while EOS you know, it’s
not affected them in you know, like, adversely sort of- sort of way
has it, you know EOS I suppose they’re trying to protect people who
are constantly abused EOS if they’re gonna be constantly abused then
they’re just gonna be constantly- like, putting a rule in saying ‘you
can’t hit your kids’ isn’t gonna stop them EOS yeah, there should be-
I think they need to look at it don’t they change the rules EOS so
have you- I don’t know what erm- what ways did you have to help
around- help around the house when you used to live at home with your
Mam? erm, I dunno, my Mum was more of a slob than us, so it wasn’t too
bad, but you know what my Mum’s like, she’s she only did like, the
pots and the tea every now and again, it didn’t really matter to be
honest, we were more we all did our bit and that EOS you have to do
anything? used to- used to be like a fight in our house every weekend,
you know, like me Mum dragging us out of bed at like ten o’clock on a
Saturday morning when you just wanna sleep EOS cos you’ve been up like
playing on your Xbox or whatever, ‘til like three in the morning EOS
she’s dragging us out of bed going, erm, trying to get us, you know,
to tidy up different things like, you can wash the pots from last
night and she used to make us like al- hoover all the- hoover all the-
all the stairs and landing and clean the bathroom and stuff like that
EOS ah, my Mum was pretty cool with all that, I think she did most of
it EOS think she just erm, made us clean our rooms, and any mess that
we left out she, like, we cleaned that up EOS but she did the rest EOS
she w- the funniest I look back on it now and I- I- I l- laugh on it,
but when- when we were kids, like cos me and my brother used to have
to share a room, erm, if that you know, became, messer, and me Dad
used to warn us, like two, or three times you know, saying, you know,
‘tidy your room up’ EOS and then if we didn’t do it, you know, just
go, ‘oh you know, we’ll just leave it, do it another time’, erm, we’d
come home from school one day and he would like have ripped everything
out of the wardrobes, all the toy boxes would be emptied EOS you know,
just everything in a big pile in the middle of the floor and he’d just
go EOS ‘sort it out’ EOS ‘sort it out now’ y- you know, ‘you’re not
going out until you’ve tidied your room’ so we used to have to sit
there for like you know, three hours, just EOS that’s quite good that
EOS tidying the room, and then it used to be spotless for about two
months, but then it used to get back to the same thing EOS that’s why-
but my room now you know, it’s always spotless so I think that’s been
drilled into me, you know EOS mine would be if **anon** wasn’t in it
all the time EOS she’s so messy EOS every time **anon** comes ro- eve-
every time **anon** comes round to ours, you know, it just- it’ll be,
you know, there’ll be a few clothes you know, on the back of the chair
or whatever, but she’ll just like, throw her bag on the floor, her
shoes and everything and EOS ah, it annoys me you know, just spent
half an hour cleaning up and then you come round and erm, mess
everything up EOS yeah, I live at me own in **anon** at the moment,
and it’s just bliss, it’s just like, nobody makes a mess EOS and then,
if I make a mess I clean it up like pretty much straight away anyway
so EOS that’d be ace erm EOS I do miss **anon** like but she comes
round and visits me, and I’m round here more than anything, I think
EOS yeah at least you’ve got her your car, how’s your car EOS yeah,
it’s alright, you can- like, it looks like there’s a really, really
clean patch just on this wheel arch where I managed to scrape it up
the wall EOS and it’s just got a different coloured paint on at the
moment EOS oh it’s only like a little scratch, but, yeah, it’s alright
EOS I’ve had a erm, just had me car insurance EOS but I pay it in one
EOS it was well, the renewal price was one, six then erm, I changed to
Admiral for like an ultra low mileage EOS so, and then it got it down
to one, four, and then I put **anon** on it, and it went- knocked it
down to one three I was like EOS that’s weird isn’t it? that’s brill,
but they’ve now got a tracker in it to check my mileage EOS you’ve got
to have a tracker on it? I’ve got it on it, yeah but it’s- all they do
is just check how many miles you do in the year, and if you go over
then you gotta pay a premium cos I said I’ll only do five thousand
miles EOS which is why it went cheaper but if my car ever gets stolen
or anything I can like phone them up and say, ‘can you just- my car’s
been stolen can you-’ EOS track it sort of thing EOS yeah, turn the
tracker on EOS that’s a- that’s a- that’s alright isn’t it? and then
they give it all to the police, and the police go and find EOS that’s
decent my bike’s got so many cracks down the side of it where the
previous owner dropped it on the floor EOS ahh, have you not like,
dropped it or anything yet, nope not dropped it at- I- I came off it
in EOS I can’t see any cracks actually EOS it’s on the- it’s on the
other side I came off it in erm EOS in Buille Hill park luckily, you
know on the grass EOS so that was the only time I’ve fell off it so
far erm, and it was actually quite funny, I got up laughing to myself
just going, ‘oh my God’ EOS but yeah, there’s like big cracks down the
side of it and you can see where, like it was been painted over sort
of thing, but it’s like, cos it’s like, it’s like shiny isn’t it EOS
but, on the other- on the other side, erm, it’s just like matte, matte
blue paint EOS and it just looks stupid erm, but I can’t complain for
what I paid for it and the mileage on it there’s still- it’s not even
got a thousand miles on the clock yet EOS has it not EOS ah, it’s
great for, you know, just going back and forward to work you know,
takes me like, well, not half the time, but you know, depends what
time, if I’ve gotta go you know, down to **anon** at you know like
five o’clock and it’s really busy, just zipping through EOS zipping
through the traffic is pretty cool, but did I tell you- did I tell you
about that argument what I had with that van driver? I think you did
EOS yeah, I was like just – EOS oh, you were going past weren’t you?
yeah, I was ju- I was just like going past the line of traffic and I
stopped to let him- to let him come past on the other side of the
road, and erm, he starts shake- shaking his head at me going, you
know, like mouthing off in his van going, ‘ah, what you doing this
for, what you doing this for?’ EOS so I was just like you know, g-
give him the fingers EOS and he pulled up at the side of me there, and
he was like proper screaming in my face going, ‘why don’t you get to
the back of the queue, all these other people have gotta wait’ and I
was like, ‘I’m on a bike’ EOS it’s part an- ‘part and parcel of having
a motorbike to be honest with you mate, you know, I’m not gonna sit in
a queue of traffic when I can just overtake everbody am I’ EOS oh,
gotta think- I really want a motorbike now, what? gotta think- gotta
think sometimes erm, have you not thought more about getting yours? I
have but it’s EOS are you gonna wait a couple of years do you reckon?
yeah, probably until like, we get our own place and that, cos EOS yeah
cos I reckon- you probably need a garage to store it in, to save it
from getting nicked EOS I could put it in the back garden at the
moment, but EOS it’s cost as well EOS if I could get rid of my car
then I would, but I can’t for EOS no, well if you- if you, you know,
cos I know, the reason I got rid of my car was cos the insurance was
just was too high EOS you know, I think I was paying two thousand
pound, and it was only a little fiat punto EOS so I thought, you know
what, erm, this doesn’t justify it, you know, I only travel, you know,
n- not far to work do I, I walk to work most days, so I just got rid
of it and got that cos it’s cheap as chips to run, three hundred and
fifty pound a year on me insurance EOS my tax is nearly that, road tax
what was your road- how much- how much is your tax for a year? oh,
it’s about two hundred and fifty five I think EOS bloody hell, do you
know how much it is on that EOS it’s probably about five or something-
fif- fifteen pounds for the year EOS don’t laugh, it’s not funny EOS
no, it is well worth it, I would do it, but I need a car to get EOS
yeah, it can be- it can be a bit of a- a pain in the arse, you know
when it’s raining or it’s a little bit EOS yeah wait ‘til snow comes
in winter- well I’ve been- I’ve been riding it since the middle of-
since the middle of January, so EOS you know, I’ve been out- I’ve been
out there in the cold and- and everything like that, you know, with me
long johns on EOS underneath me thermals so, I erm, I can, I’ll be-
plan to be riding it until it starts snowing and getting icy, so, then
it’ll go in the garage until I can get it out again EOS oh, depends on
the job front, I might get a car but the EOS a cheap one, insure it
for a month or something? insure it- yeah, just insure it for a month
EOS get on **anon** EOS erm, I’m al- I’m already on **anon** EOS oh,
that’s good EOS but, you know, she uses it for work going back and
forward to Swinton every day told her to get a motorbike but she won’t
have any of it EOS I can imagine **anon** on a motorbike EOS I told
her, you know, it won’t cost you anything EOS get her a sidecar for
yours count to five EOS one, two, three, four, five EOS one, two, three,
four, five EOS okay, whenever you’re ready EOS cool, right, go on EOS
I don’t need a pen EOS what is your best or funniest memory from when
you were young? erm, don’t even know, I can’t even remember being
young EOS no, neither can I EOS erm young do you remember our Science
lessons, they were well good EOS yeah, I love Science, mm EOS fun,
fun, fun EOS ah glad we don’t go school anymore though EOS I know, I
was talking to **anon** the other day about erm, **anon** and how she
used to send everyone to the unit EOS doesn’t it feel weird saying
that? **anon** EOS isn’t it, I said **anon**- I saw **anon** and it
felt well weird saying **anon** the other day EOS no, it were- we
weren’t in Wetherspoons, was with **anon** and they were walking past
the pub that I was in, can’t remember which pub it EOS oh right, I
think he works at Wetherspoons, cos I went in there and he ID’d me,
and I was like, ‘I was in your year at school’ EOS I was just like,
‘hiya **anon**’ EOS yeah, it’s well weird seeing some- and **anon** mm
EOS yeah, I saw him yesterday I was like, ‘hi’, and like, ‘you work
here?’ and then **anon** told me like, **anon** EOS good who was your
favourite teacher at school? don’t think I had one EOS yeah, that
makes sense EOS **anon** was pretty good though, he was funny **anon**
EOS oh, do you remember woodwork do you remember doing woodwork EOS
problem rubbish at woodwork EOS mine were always shocking EOS I
remember I made one for my Dad, you know that frame, with a flower EOS
I didn’t do that EOS for valentine’s day EOS we didn’t do that EOS I
don’t know why I made it my Dad EOS it’s a bit weird that, now that I
think about it, it’s a bit weird yeah, and now I don’t know where it
is but, I made EOS I’ve still got some of my stuff EOS I made a plane
EOS I’ve got my plane, painted it pink EOS but I don’t know where it’s
gone EOS mines at m- my house EOS I think it’s like, left it in the
old house EOS oh, I’ll have to show you actually when you come round
to my house EOS what, your plane? I still got it, and there’s a little
box thing that I made, it was EOS money box? Yeah EOS no it was just a
normal box and with a lid EOS oh, we made a money box EOS and like,
it’s not like even sort of thing, it’s a bit wonky EOS and painted
that was painted mostly pink as well, don’t know EOS I remember making
the bird feeders and th- you never put the thing on it EOS and we
never got it back, so, I was a bit gutted at the time EOS I’m sure I
did, cos I’m sure I put nuts in it EOS you probably did, I- I was
gutted that I didn’t get it back EOS yeah, he’s alright EOS he’s
growing up, really, really quick EOS I can’t believe he’s one one EOS
is that your brother? he’s so cute EOS aww, he’s gorgeous EOS we’re
walking round Trafford Centre, erm, and my sister was trying to get
some trainers or something, so me and **anon** are walking round
Trafford Centre and some of the looks we were getting, like we were
EOS which reminds me right, on Saturday, I was at **anon** Granddad’s
club and I was with this little kid, babysitting sort of thing while
person was working behind the bar, so I sat there with it, and some of
the looks I was getting as well then EOS like it was my kid, **anon**
sat next to me, well funny EOS aww, I used to like that EOS in a weird
way EOS go like, ‘oh yeah, this is mine’ EOS yeah, when the babies are
right there it sort of does make you want a kid but then EOS but then
after that, there was this little kid- you like giving them back
though EOS there was this little kid, and bloody screaming I thought,
‘yep, that makes you not want a kid’ EOS they are cute though EOS
makes me laugh ahh, we went to Gap, we went erm, on Saturday, went and
took **anon** round, aww I took my boyfriend round to see my family
and then, you know them lanterns we like, tried to light one of them
lanterns EOS oh, it was the most embarrassing thing EOS and it just-
you know the bit, the square bit what you light, it just fell off, I
was like, ‘this is not good’ EOS like, patting it out on the grass, I
was like, oops EOS and then we lit- finally lit one, and it like flew
off, and then it was like stuck in a tree EOS we was like, ‘oh my God,
it’s gonna set the tree on fire’ EOS ‘it’s gonna set the tree on fire’
but then, it like flew off and we was like- my Granddad was stood
there going, ‘I’m not happy about this, I’m not happy about this, it’s
gonna set next door on fire’ EOS I was like, ‘Granddad, chill out,
it’ll blow away soon’ EOS it was so funny oh it was funny EOS did they
like your boyfriend? they was, ahh they didn’t really see him cos I
was like, ‘no, we’ll go and sit in this room’ EOS ‘I don’t really
wanna sit with all them’, cos they wouldn’t stop EOS you know what
they’re like EOS was **anon** there? no, she said she was gonna be cos
she didn’t- w- she said I think she was alright going round to
**anon** or something EOS then she was like, ‘I don’t really fancy
going out’ I was like, ‘ooh, go round to Gran’s, I’ll be there at
about eight’ she’s like, ‘right, okay, I’ll see you there then’, and
she just didn’t turn up, I was EOS so I was sat there with **anon**
with all the kids EOS was- it was great EOS proper getting terrored
though ooh, they just bully me all the EOS yeah, they’re just like,
‘oh, he seems lovely’, I was like, ‘he is’ EOS they always say that
don’t they EOS everyone loves my boyfriend EOS more than me probably
EOS been nearly three years EOS that’s a long time that isn’t it? gone
quick though EOS look at them dogs EOS ahh, that’s just mean EOS
imagine walking that down the road? would be embarrassing you’d be
like, ‘it’s not mine’ EOS ‘I’m just walking it’ EOS can imagine the
owner having that colour hair as well couldn’t you? dressed to match
EOS oh it’s hard talking when you don’t really kn- like EOS it is
under pressure EOS I can’t think of anything to say EOS try one of
them I always think I don’t like they’re- they’re alright EOS did you
ever do anything after school? apart from that not really EOS no,
neither did I, I don’t think EOS I think- no, I thi- actually I think
I joined the rounders team, I was pretty good at rounders, was quite-
the only thing I was good at EOS yeah, I didn’t like PE, I only liked
it when we started going to the EOS I know, and you didn’t really do
anything, you just stood in the gym going, ‘hm, champ’ EOS me and you
are just stood there like this EOS on the- on the running machine, and
you’re just having a stroll EOS we were just there talking weren’t we
EOS it was good EOS go to the gym now though actually take it serious
EOS I don’t, I just don’t- I just don’t do exercise, it’s not really
for me I don’t think EOS did you ever do drama? I’d hate it EOS
neither did I, right but everyone’s got like a lesson now, full of
drama, like just for drama EOS what, in like year seven and
everything? cos **anon** was like, ‘oh yeah, we was in drama the other
day’ I was like, ‘you had drama?’ cos we didn’t have it EOS I think
it’s cos it’s an arts and thingy college EOS at erm, school, isn’t it
EOS I was like, ‘oh, I would’ve liked drama’ EOS what you liked it or
didn’t? no, I would of, yeah EOS quite good at acting I think EOS hate
these adverts EOS you know, right, on the first day, I remember Mum
walks me and **anon** to the bus stop, then stood there until the bus
came, it was so EOS and then she like asked one of the year elevens,
she was like, ‘oh, will you take care of these and make sure they get
to school alright’ I was like, fucks sake, ‘Mum, this is so
embarassing’ EOS that’s just reminded me of something that, on my
first day, I got my sister to do my tie, cos y- y- you didn’t have it
the right way, did EOS no, you had it the wrong way EOS you had that
little, small bit there EOS so now I did that, got to form, had
**anon**, do you remember **anon**? she bloody made us blooming undo
it EOS I didn’t know how to do a bloody tie neither EOS so I was
there, undone this tie, and I’m thinking, ‘how do you do EOS just tie
it in a knot EOS too- t- t- took me ages to figure out- get used to
doing it EOS we used to, right, you know when, like, year seven you
had them little tiny ones then year eleven you got them big huge ones
EOS yeah, but it was dead small like EOS oh God don’t know what we was
thinking EOS I know, just as we come they got the blazers as well EOS
we had blazers EOS no, that’s what I mean, just as we got there,
that’s when they got EOS cos my sister didn’t have to have one until
we started coming, our year, they just brought them in EOS I quite
like my blazer, I’m not gonna lie EOS it had places to put things EOS
I looked pretty good in it EOS it was horrible in summer though when
they made you wear your jumper EOS and your blazer EOS and you had to
ask to take it off EOS it was horrible you couldn’t just take it off,
no EOS you’re really hot though EOS I know, it was horrible, like on
the- we were allowed to on the yard EOS it was stupid yeah, but like,
in classrooms though it’s always warmer isn’t it EOS but they’re not
exactly gonna say no are they well, they can’t EOS so I don’t know why
you had to ask EOS I know ‘no, you can’t’ EOS ‘keep it on’ EOS you’re
still gonna take it off EOS I’m going to anyway, so EOS remember
getting the cream eggs actually at Easter EOS I remember when **anon**
made me cry EOS ah, that was horrible, cos like, I’d had a really bad
morning, you know like with my Mum and stuff EOS and then I went in,
and I was wearing a leather jacket, and I was thinking, ‘ahh’, and I
saw her walking down the corridor towards me, I was like, ‘oh my God,
she’s gonna say something’ EOS it’s cos you had to wear a black coat
EOS and I was stood there, and I was like, and she was like, going at
me in my face, and I was like, ‘uhh, shut up’, and then I just cried,
I was like, ‘ahh’ EOS how embarra- I hate that EOS it was horrible she
went, ‘right, take- ta- take your jacket off’, I went, ‘it’s raining
outside’, she went, ‘I don’t care, take your jacket off’, I was like
EOS and them white socks EOS you know when you’re wearing pants white
socks EOS cause like but, why would you wear white socks? they look
ridiculous EOS but everyone used to just wear black socks anyway, and
in EOS year eleven we were allowed to weren’t we? but why would you
have to wear white socks? I don’t know, she went EOS it’s alright with
a skirt, because EOS it looks alright, but EOS it looks alright, but,
ahh, it’s like EOS pants, black, white, black EOS Michael Jackson
style EOS yeah used to get told off for it all the time black socks
looked nice though EOS was really strict actually if you think about
it EOS do you remember? cos they used to pick at anything didn’t they
EOS ‘don’t do this, don’t do that’ EOS **anon** do you remember, cos
you used to roll your skirt up didn’t EOS si- so it’s not like, down
below your knee EOS and she stopped me and **anon** in the hall, and
she was like, ‘right, girls, have you got your skirts rolled up?’ I
was like, ‘no, it just won’t go past my hip’ like, she was like,
‘that’s clearly a lie’, I was like, ‘okay’ EOS and she was like,
‘right, lift your s- lift your shirts up, I wanna see your skirts’ EOS
I was like EOS and then we’d walk past and she’d make us do our ties,
have our skirts long, ah, it was so embarrassing, and you’d walk down
the corridor and you’d be like, roll it back up EOS remember when they
used to make you tuck your shirts in as EOS mm oh God, wouldn’t mind
it with pants though, just looked silly with a skirt EOS normally had
a jumper on over it so you couldn’t tell anyway EOS so they didn’t
normally notice, unless it was like, hanging out EOS tuck it under
your jumper EOS see they’re the things I don’t miss about school EOS
I’m not gonna lie, I quite liked school uniform, cos it was green EOS
but that’s only cos it’s like my favourite colour EOS I like wanted a
green car but EOS the only one I could get was blue EOS you can paint
it, paint it EOS my Dad, the other day came round and he’s got a green
car, I was EOS ‘oh right, you couldn’t find me a green car, but you
could get yourself a green car’ EOS yeah, I went, ‘can we swap’, he
went, ‘Claudia **anon**, the insurance on this is gonna be sky high’,
I was like, I know I need a car EOS sky high already EOS I need a job
first actually EOS passed in December and no car still EOS I don’t
know what I’d do now if I didn’t have a car EOS that’s the thing EOS
they’re horrible, cos I don’t walk anywhere, ever EOS it’s like that
with **anon** though, because I always get lifts everywhere so th-
that time when his car weren’t working, it was EOS just like not
having your car for a week EOS I don’t know what I’d do, I’d probably
just sit in the house all the EOS ah, I can’t believe I dreamt that
you said that you were getting the EOS yeah, I had to check my
messages EOS in my dream I read a text saying, ‘I’m just leaving a bit
earlier cos I’m getting the bus down’ so I was think- I remember
thinking, ‘oh, what’s wrong with her car then?’ EOS and I had to look
and I think it- it weren’t there EOS she got in the car and I went,
‘Erin **anon**, do you even know me?’, the last time I got the bus was
EOS well that’s what I thought was weird EOS funny I can’t decide
whether I like him or not EOS hmm not watched- I need to catch up on
corrie actually went to Ibiza EOS so I’ve missed everything EOS how
was it? It was good actually EOS did you go with friends? oh, very
nice EOS Claudia’s **anon** going away in October aren’t you? with my
Mum EOS and my Gran and my Granddad EOS I know, Mum was like- so
you’re not going clubbing? my Mum- Mum was like, ‘are you ready to hit
the town with me’ I was EOS then me Aunty yesterday she was like,
‘what if your Mum pulled’, I was like, ‘that’s what I want’ EOS so, I
went, ‘I’m not even going out with her’ EOS ‘what if she pulled?’ EOS
ah, that’s horrible that EOS couldn’t even imagine it EOS I don’t want
to EOS ahh she’s dead excited though don’t know why, she was like,
‘ahh, it’s gonna be a holiday with just us’, I was like, ‘yeah’ EOS it
will be nice EOS yeah, it should be alright, wouldn’t really do
anything EOS sit by the pool, relax EOS better than being over here
anyway EOS in the rain EOS God, it’s horrible EOS will be in October
anyway EOS Mum and Dad go away the same time as she goes away EOS ahh,
you’re gonna be lonely EOS I know ahh, well you’ll just have to drink
on your own again EOS can’t wait for Christmas, can’t wait for Chris-
it’s nearly Christmas EOS it’s like four months away EOS it is
actually, cos it is the eighth month isn’t it, I didn’t know it was
that close actually EOS my cousin told me, he went, what did he say?
He said there’s something like hundred and thirty three days or
something, I was like EOS it’s a bit- bit precise there EOS not been
counting down or anything EOS I’m not really that excited for
Christmas anymore EOS I don’t know EOS I’m still like a little kid at
Christmas, wake up dead early EOS like, last year was a bit of a let
down EOS I don’t even know what I got, what did you get? I don’t know
why I even know what I get anymore EOS oh, I don’t know either EOS
ooh, I wanna know what I got now, I can’t think EOS what did you get
for Christmas EOS erm, a Nintendo DS actually EOS I know, I’ve- and
I’ve used it like twice EOS I hate that, I was like, ‘**anon**, do you
wanna buy this off me’ EOS he was like, ‘no, I’ve only g- I’ve got my
own’, I was like, ‘oh’ EOS alright, ebay it is EOS turn the light on,
it’s getting dark EOS I was talking to **anon** last night, I was
like, ‘got any gossip about **anon** from school?’ it- she was like,
‘not really’, I was like, ‘how can you not have gossip about someone’
EOS I wonder what **anon** actually like in school EOS I remember you
telling me that he got kicked out of that other school EOS got kicked
out of **anon** didn’t he EOS erm, long story, basically he set a bin
on fire and then EOS and then apparently he tried to put it out with
deodorant, I was EOS ‘what an idiot’ EOS you’re not- right- he’s not
stupid is he? clearly know that it’s gonna make the fire worse EOS
what was it one of the inside ones? I think so, and that’s even worse,
cos like could’ve set the whole classroom on fire EOS I was like,
‘what- what are you even thinking when you do this stuff?’ he was
like, ‘I don’t know, I just do it’, I was like, he’s meant to be the
brainy one as well EOS yeah he- but he keeps saying, ‘other people
were with me’, and I was like, ‘well, why didn’t you say that?’ he
went, ‘cos I didn’t wanna tell- tell off anyone’, I was like,
‘probably wouldn’t have got kicked out then if it was other people’
EOS a group effort, yeah EOS mm but I don’t- I don’t think he’s
bothered really cos he’s got like loads of friends now, cos they are,
cos obviously, the people from **anon** live in **anon** EOS so, now
he goes to the one **anon** he’s got all his mates in EOS so, it’s
pretty good and he’s always out now, so like EOS got the house to
myself in the day, when he’s off, and it’s like- I love having the
house to myself EOS I know boring though EOS I’m glad my sister’s
moved out actually EOS she moved out at Christmas EOS Mum keeps
telling me to move out, she’s like, ‘so when are you gonna get a full
time job’ EOS ‘when are you moving out?’, ‘Mum, I don’t know’, ‘you
need to think about it don’t you’, I was like EOS ‘stop pushing me’
EOS oh God do you remember him, on that magic show? What was it
called? yeah tricky TV- tricky TV, yeah, it’s sad that I know that EOS
it is a little bit sad, a little bit sad EOS do you remember Art
Attack? That was good EOS oh, yeah which one was that one that died?
Was he out of Art Attack? Or Smart? Was it Smart? Oh EOS I used to
love watching all them programmes EOS what did you do in your summer
holidays like, in school? erm, like now? no, in school EOS oh, in
school EOS I dunno, bit far away to remember EOS you know where
**anon** is, you know she’s got that big field outside EOS we used to
sit on there in the summer, like, just sit there EOS I can’t even
remember what we used to do, we used to just sit there, and you know
when you used to play music on your phone EOS used to go out with
**anon** was **anon** and **anon** and all that go out with us EOS who
else, someone else did as well can’t remember EOS ah, I remember the
first Friday that I got drunk on the park EOS it wasn’t very nice
actually, it was quite scary EOS cause like everyone else was out
wasn’t they, and it’s like, mm, okay, so we just went and sat on my
friends grass outside her EOS and then my friend, you know **anon**
EOS I think that’s what he’s called EOS yeah he like jumped on the
cars and like ran across them EOS we was like, ‘oh my God you can’t do
that’ EOS oh my God, I was like, I didn’t know what to do, I was like,
‘**anon** probably should get down’ but yeah, and then I think it- I
think it was **anon** who got beat up that night EOS I think I
remember him coming into school actually EOS saying that he was beat
up EOS or summet on them lines EOS and him and **anon** and **anon**
mm, they got together, but like, didn’t really get together EOS I know
it was weird EOS they like kissed and everything and then, just
nothing, I was EOS God, I remember that EOS it was alright, cos they
both liked each other, you could proper tell but then nothing EOS
remember when **anon** and **anon** were together actually EOS and
they went into a bush t- just to kiss EOS bloody hell you look back
now and you’re like, what the hell EOS I know, mm, in a bush EOS I
thought you was gonna say summet else then EOS at least United won
yesterday anyway I weren’t paying much attention to the match EOS I
don’t know EOS I was just drinking EOS did you go to the pub to watch
it? yeah, drinking from twelve ‘til like nine EOS oh no, headache
today EOS I got very drunk, no, I don’t get hangovers to be honest but
EOS she’s lucky all the time EOS I’ve not stopped drinking f- since
I’ve back- been back off holiday, I come back on f- was it EOS Friday
morning so, went for ten days and I’ve not stopped EOS this is me
first day that I’m not having a drink EOS it’s cos you’ve got none
left EOS b- I have, I have, I’ve not drank any at- th- that was all
spent at EOS ah, I’ve still got that vodka at home, got a litre bottle
of vodka, ten ninety five euro EOS it’s good that isn’t it EOS I think
it’s like eighteen in Tesco EOS was that duty free? so I- I thought,
‘right, I’ll get that’ EOS went round on Friday, I thought, ‘I’ll have
a bit, ‘go on, I’ll share’ EOS did, didn’t we went- went to Trafford
Centre, then went to Asda, had to carry all the bags, through- back to
the Trafford Centre EOS she went, ‘it’s alright, we’ll walk to Asda
from Selfridges’, right, and then when we - and then we got there, it
was like, ‘we’re gonna have to carry all these bags through the
Trafford Centre back to the car’ EOS I forgot that we weren’t at-
parked at Asda as well until like we just got hold of the bags, I
thought, ‘oh, we’ve gotta walk through EOS cause I was like walking to
the car, and she went, ‘Claudia **anon** where you going? We’re going
Selfridges’, I was like, ‘what do you mean, I’m gonna get my car, to
drive to Asda’, she went, ‘no, we’ll walk, we’ll walk’ EOS we both
didn’t know where we were going, I was gonna walk out a blooming
different exit, weren’t I EOS to try and get to Asda EOS and it’s
through Selfridges EOS yeah, it’s further than you think as well,
isn’t it EOS yeah and then I think- and we had to find which way it
was, cos it- we were parked, was it at John Lewis? I know we always
get mixed up between EOS like Debenhams and John Lewis EOS you can see
us walking all the way to Debenhams and thinking EOS it’s at the other
end EOS it’s the other end EOS Peter Andre makes me laugh EOS ah, I
wish he was my Dad EOS I want Celebrity Juice to come back on actually
EOS is that not back on next month, I’m sure it’s September it comes
back EOS I don’t know EOS makes me laugh though Inbetweeners is out on
the seventeenth, I’m so excited EOS I can’t wait to watch that EOS the
trailers look good don’t they EOS yeah, have you seen the bit where
Neil’s dancing in that club? doing the robot? oh my God, it’s so funny
EOS well the only bloody trailer I’ve seen, which was a while ago now,
cos I remember looking on youtube was where they’re just bloody
walking through a town, weren’t the greatest trailer EOS oh yeah, I’ve
seen that EOS just watching them walk, I was thinking, ‘this is a
great time to advertise a film’ you know, if someone’s not seen it EOS
ah, I’ve seen loads of different ones, like- oh, I’m gonna have to
search it now EOS where he squirts aftershave down his pants and then
screams, yeah EOS I can imagine that’d hurt EOS yeah, we went to
Thorpe Park on Friday and it just reminded me of EOS where he’s got-
he’s carrying the door around with him EOS ah, you should paint your
door a different colour EOS yeah, you should EOS cause there’s just
one door isn’t there that’s different EOS ahh, I don’t understand why
he carries it round with him EOS why doesn’t he just like, leave it on
the car, it’s not gonna make a difference whether he’s still got it or
not EOS and no-one’s really gonna steal a door EOS you never know EOS
someone’d steal the car, cos it’s not got a door EOS can’t believe
I’ve come back to Manchester and it’s horrible, was nice while I was
away EOS well, come back and it’s horrible again EOS I even got a
suntan, I was like, ahh, come on suntan EOS just, and then I thought,
I’m gonna have to top it up with fake tan EOS oh, do you remember them
EOS when you used to go to like Wacky Warehouse or something, and big
ball pools and stuff EOS ball pits, ahh EOS you went down the slide
and went straight into EOS I’d always be scared of going in there you
know, cos kids are in there, and they EOS like could poo and EOS I
never thought about that EOS I thought you were gonna say kids hiding
EOS no, I’m not even bothered about, ooh, imagine like eurgh, an EOS
in the ball pit EOS Claudia **anon** y- no, have you seen, ah, do you
watch the Big Bang Theory? Oh, it’s so funny that, have you seen the
one where Sheldon goes in the ball pit, oh it’s so funny, and he’s
like going down, and then Leonard’s trying to catch him and he pops up
and he goes, ‘the zinger’ EOS so funny, oh, I love Sheldon makes me
laugh EOS don’t even know what they’re doing in there EOS having fun
in a ball pit EOS proper fancy McDonalds EOS you had it the other day
didn’t you actually? Oh no, you didn’t EOS no, I had Chin- you had
that Chinese didn’t you, I forgot EOS oh my God, went Trafford Centre,
had a Chinese, and it was so spicy EOS my mouth was on fire EOS oh it
re- I was sat there with every mouthful just going EOS was really nice
though EOS you still ate it EOS I actually ate all of it you know EOS
got to really EOS is it expensive? it was five ninety-nine EOS six
pound and- it weren’t too bad EOS did you eat all them peanuts you
got? no, I took them back right, I don’t know why, I was craving
peanuts EOS it’s a weird thing, and I ate about four, and then I
thought, I don’t even want them anymore EOS so then I took them round
to my Gran’s seventieth, and I was like, ‘I’ve got some peanuts here’,
she was like, ‘ooh, put some in bowls’, I was like, ‘alright’ EOS ah
knew I should’ve got the small bag EOS it was a huge bag, it was like
this big EOS you’re like, there’s not- there’s- there’s not enough in
this one EOS it was huge though that bag EOS you know they don’t do
chocolate erm, peanuts in Asda EOS they do or don’t EOS I know, I w-
that’s what I was looking for, I was like, cos I wanted some chocolate
ones, you know, cos they’re nice EOS and didn’t have any EOS there was
none EOS I was like, ‘oh’, gutted EOS little bit erm EOS I was talking
to **anon** about the toilets in school EOS do you remember when
everyone used to go in and smoke in them EOS yep, th- the ones were
worse near- round that other side EOS where they always played
football, can’t think of where it was EOS it’s like, do you remember
**anon** used to bring- used to bring a toilet roll into school? I
don’t remember this EOS cos he used to always have a poo EOS in
school, I was like, ‘ooh, that’s nasty’ EOS was it **anon** had that
rumour EOS don’t know if it is true EOS some lad poo- did he poo
himself? used his boxers as well to wipe EOS ah, that’s disgusting EOS
apparently it was all over the toilet seat and everything EOS ah that-
ah that’d be so embarrassing EOS ew do you remember **anon** EOS ah,
the Art teacher? took everyone’s chocolate and food and EOS and then
didn’t give it them back EOS cause he was- was he diabetic or
something? and he used to say that he needed like, chocolate so EOS
someone came in with a bar of chocolate, he’d be like, ‘you’re not
allowed to eat that in here’ so he’d take it off them EOS and eat it
himself EOS and then eat it himself, and it’s like, ‘didn’t pay for
that or EOS didn’t give him money, didn’t give him money or anything,
just took it off him EOS I know God I seen him the other day actually
EOS yeah where did I see him? think it was Trafford Centre didn’t know
who he was EOS I used to love tomato ketchup actually EOS did you ?
don’t worry, it was the advert EOS anyone listening to this is gonna
think I’m really random EOS don’t like it no more though EOS I dunno,
I think it- I might- must’ve had it too much when I was EOS and gone
off it EOS I am really fussy EOS what do you not like? in high school
she used to have jam butties every single day EOS I just don’t like
anything on my sandwich, do I? and now I just have bread and butter
cos there’s too much sugar in EOS well that’s when I go to- when I
went college and stuff EOS ahh, them paninis in college, they were
nice should’ve tried one, they were nice EOS don’t think I would’ve
liked them EOS ham and cheese panini EOS mm, could- oh, I could eat
one of them now EOS ahh, why don’t you go college and get one EOS not
that it’s gonna be open but still EOS get one when we go and get r-
our results next Thursday EOS oh God, yeah EOS it’s so close EOS how
do you feel? I haven’t got a clue EOS I don’t think I’ve failed any
EOS but I don’t think I dunno don’t think I’ve done really badly just
not great EOS it’s hard though, isn’t it EOS are you nervous? yeah I
don’t wanna go in EOS and see all my teachers though EOS cause they’ll
be like, ‘oh what did you get, what did you get’ and I’m like, ‘an E’
EOS they’ll just be like, ‘oh’ EOS it’s annoy- it’s annoying though
when people get good grades and they’re like, ‘this is really
shocking’ EOS you know when like, say they get a B or an A or like, C
or summet, and they’re like, ‘oh, this is rubbish this’, and it’s
like, it’s not EOS it’s be- no, it’s not EOS mm it’s better than E,
let’s put it that way EOS but if you wanna go Uni and stuff it is
important, isn’t it? aye, I need two B’s and a C to get in Uni EOS
hopefully I will EOS well, I can’t wait for everyone’s fresher’s week
EOS just gonna, go around EOS I know I can’t, but I don’t if it’s
before the like, actually Uni starts, I want my money EOS but they’re
not gonna give me my money, are they? don’t know actually EOS what’s
that for, your loan? it comes in just before freshers EOS yeah, cos
they count freshers as the start of term EOS so you’ll have it, so EOS
cause I need it EOS otherwise I won’t be going out much in the
beginning EOS no, you’ll have fun, freshers is good EOS mm I think I’m
coming down to Leeds EOS mm, I know, I went out with him, I think it
was not last Friday, the Friday before, and I lost my phone EOS I know
the only time I go out with my cousins, and I loose my EOS have you
got it back? no I know, in **anon** as well EOS and I bet someone who
took it, cos I think someone took it, cause like, I rang it and it was
off, and I was like, ‘someone’s took it’ ah, was so upset EOS is it
your Blackberry? I was so upset EOS now she’s got a Samsung, her old
phone EOS where did you go with them? erm, just round **anon**, like
EOS yeah and then I think, it was a- cos we went to a pizza place, you
know, like you do EOS after you’ve been out you get a bit peckish EOS
you do anyway EOS so- so I must’ve like put my phone down EOS and got
really excited about this pizza EOS and then just forgot that my phone
was there, but I went back the day after and they was like, ‘oh no,
we’ve not seen it, we’ve not seen it’, I was like, ‘probably took it
haven’t you’ EOS yeah, they probably did EOS so, and I went into all
the pubs and everything, but, no EOS mm so now I’ve gotta save up for
another one EOS yay, fun times EOS and I’m skint EOS why are they all
pound signs on this map? cause you can win it EOS I don’t know EOS
wish I could win EOS when I win the lottery, just don’t put it on
though EOS I know, you should really put it on if you wanna win it EOS
it sort of helps EOS yeah, yeah, little bit EOS I hope to win it, just
don’t put it on EOS Mum puts it on every week and I’d- I’d like to
think that if she won, she’d give me a little bit EOS I’m sure she
would EOS yeah, my M- my Mum and Dad put it on every week EOS I don’t
know where they get that spare pound from EOS I never have a spare
pound, it’s always in my car ah EOS you hardly ready- for anything
though on it, do they? no, she wins like a fiver or something EOS
every now and again they’ll win a tenner or something EOS makes me
laugh EOS made me laugh on holiday, you know like the fruit machines
and stuff that you get over here EOS **anon** decided to go on a
foreign one, didn’t understand it EOS but yeah, he decided to keep
putting more and more money in it EOS someone who was in my Psychology
last year, he’s got like a gambling EOS he’s like, how old is he? I
think he’s like twenty, and he’s got a gambling problem, I was like
how can you even get one at twenty EOS cos he went, ‘I just go to the
casinos every weekend’, and I’m like, ‘why? W-Where do you even get
money from to do that?’ EOS **anon** goes quite a lot to the casino
EOS wish I had money to go to a casino but no EOS yeah wish I had a
job EOS having a car rinses your money EOS like anything I have like
one night out a month EOS I know, it’s horrible but it’s so expensive
insurance, it’s EOS always is these days EOS **anon** got quoted nine
thousand pound EOS to go on my car, and I was like, it’s not exactly a
big car EOS nine thousand, I was like EOS who would pay that? I don’t
know EOS why so much? I don’t know, I think it’s cos he’s a boy, but
it’s meant to have gone the same isn’t it EOS so, it should really be
the same, cos we’re both the same age EOS I don’t know, it’s the same
car EOS how much is yours? erm, just under three EOS you wouldn’t pay
nine grand though EOS it’s not exactly EOS no, I know, I was like ‘are
you sure you did it right?’, and he was like, ‘yeah’ ‘hm, alright’
nine grand ah talking to **anon** about my scars, cos I’ve got loads
all over my EOS cos I was just clumsy EOS I’m just clumsy all the
time, never broke anything EOS but I’ve got cuts and, ah, I’ve got
about four bruises now, and I’ve no idea where they’ve come from EOS
oh I always get bruises EOS it’s like, all over me I m- I must like
fall over a lot EOS but I just don’t remember EOS are they from nights
out? I’ve still got that bite on my leg it’s still like, you run over
my leg and it’s like a proper bad bump, it’s horri- what, from
insects? horrible, hate them EOS told I told **anon** about **anon**,
you know **anon**, well, everyone knows **anon**, and he was like,
‘really’, I was like, ‘yeah, really’ EOS have you seen her? Recently
EOS yeah, she’s got a- she came to my Gran’s thing on Saturday and she
had purple hair EOS purple tights, and I was like EOS ‘do you think
she’s like purple at the moment?’ EOS but then she had pink crocs on,
I was like, what are you doing with your life? and then you know, we
all had like, stickers on, name tags EOS just in case people didn’t
know who we are EOS Claudia’s **anon** is in the car EOS as it’s asked
the whole family EOS ‘**anon**, **anon** granddaughter’ EOS it was
like, ‘this is ridiculous’, and erm, **anon** came EOS ‘**anon**,
**anon** partner’, I was like, ‘ooh, cringe’ EOS she looks like a man
doesn’t she EOS ahh, disgusting, right she had all her hair, cos she’s
grown her hair, she had it all scraped back in a pony EOS oh, has she
grown it? and she had a suit on, not a sui- not a suit, like a shirt
and jeans, and I was like she’s proper- if you didn’t know that she
was a girl, she’s- she’s a man EOS she looks like a man EOS it’s like,
‘oh my God’, it’s embarrassing EOS well, she’s starting to grow her
hair EOS ah, it’s embarrassing EOS I was telling him, and he was like,
‘oh right’ he went, ‘my cousins- my sisters a lesbian’ I was like,
‘oh, right’ ‘thanks’ EOS go round to his house, and they like they
they’ll sit and talk about her, she’s not- she doesn’t live there EOS
and they’ll sit and talk about her and it- they’ll be dead horrible
about her, and it’s like ‘that’s a bit harsh’ EOS so, I don’t know
what to say but they swear, all the time his family EOS and I’m sat
there, cos, we don’t swear, well, do sometimes but like, not in front
of like your Mum EOS and I was like, sat there and they just, ah,
every other word, and I was like, ‘oh my God, I don’t know what to do’
EOS I’m just sat there like EOS ‘alright’ cos it’s dead weird they’re
dead nice though EOS at least you get on with them EOS do you get on
with your boyfriend’s parents? yeah aye, I get on with all his family
EOS oh, that’s good EOS ah, so tired EOS want my bed EOS my mouth’s
dead dry now from talking EOS have you got water? yeah, I’ve still got
some EOS my mouth was worse cos I was drinking yesterday EOS I think
the weather is making- it’s making my lips dead dry EOS and then
they’re dead sore EOS my throat was dead sore cos it was dry the other
day EOS what are local people like? not very friendly, not really EOS
ah, that reminds me, in the pub yesterday I was just sat at this
table, **anon** and his Dad were stood at the bar there- this was just
at **anon** EOS this was like at twelve o’clock and EOS this lad
called **anon** EOS and this old man there, so I was- I was just sat
there, this per- lad comes in all cuts down his arm, self harmer EOS
blood shot eyes, looked like he was on God knows what, come in, came
up to me and went, ‘have you got any- any money? Spare pound or
something for a drink? I’m shaking, I been out all night, soaking wet
through, I need a drink’, I was like, ‘no’ EOS I went, ‘no’, and th-
then they went over to **anon** and his Dad an- and asked them, they
were like, ‘no’, then he went, ‘right, just gonna go toilet to get a
drink of water’ and EOS ew, from the toilet, you can get free water
from the bar EOS **anon** went into the toilet, and all the basins
were dry, so I bet he was trying to like get money out of the machine
thing, you know, like cos they have them machines in the toilets,
trying to see if there was money in them EOS oh, **anon** there’s
always this- I think- I think he’s like homeless and he wears like,
joggers and then a coat, and that’s it, and it’s like ‘mmm’, it’s a
bit digusting EOS and he’ll sit with a pint, the whole night, the same
pint the whole EOS it’s like, I don’t even know how it lasts that long
EOS it wouldn’t with me anyway EOS I drink like a fish There is a large amount of background noise throughout the recording
EOS There is no left channel between 15.05 - 26.42 and 27.41 - Right
when you’re ready. You start off Fearne **anon** then. Well I went to
school in **anon** which is called **anon** school. You know I’ve been
there for a long time. A very long- I couldn’t remember how many years
but I lived there for a long time with me EOS Erm we moved away from
**anon**- and lived in **anon**. I used to live at the **anon**. Been
there a long EOS so I moved to up road now, which as you know I live
on my own, so it’s just that erm you know I get on with- Were you
happy at school? Yes I was. Yeah I was happy at school. were you, mm
EOS Yeah, yeah. It’s just that when I went there, **anon** in- in
**anon** EOS I had to wear you know like- go to a- like a clinic
thing. I had to wear this cardboard hat over me head cos the sun, for
a reason, cos of me eyes, so EOS You’re right, yeah. Yes. That’s why I
had me eyes tested. Some- I mean they sent you a reminder that your
eyes are due to be tested, you know. mm, yeah, yeah EOS But they
always seem to be okay The- these are me reading glasses and the ones
I’ve got at home, they’re for the television. But as I say school
sports, but I never done that at all. Well I’ve done sports but not
done- I don’t think I’ve done music and drama cos I was fostered out
when I was- when I was a child. Were you, yeah? yeah, yeah when me and
my sister were very- w- we were forstered out cos me mother was
tookayvery ill, very poorly- and, I did enjoy sch- we did enjoy school
EOS you know. But erm when we came out of fostering I can’t remember
what happened then. It’s- It was a long- a very long time ago EOS
yeah, yeah, mm EOS and your favourite teacher, well I just can’t
remember about- favourite teacher at all about that. But when I
remember from your first day at school we just enjoy- you get to know
EOS young people you know in- in the school yard like. And I do
remember but erm that one in **anon** I don’t- I don’t know if it’s
still there or not cos I’ve not been down to **anon** for ages. And
did you have what our school had, an outside toilet? I think we did.
But it was cold in the winter EOS I think- I think we did. I think we
did. I think we did. Yeah, mm, yeah. You wouldn’t forget if you did,
no EOS Now what- were- were your summers holidays like when you were
young? Well, when I was young I had no holidays been put back- erm I
don’t think I went to go away much. When I got a bit older. I have
been to Scotland. You know I’ve been to Scotland- mm, you’ve been to
Scot- yeah yeah. Err I went out with somebody like ages- I’m going
back ages ago but EOS erm no as I said to you before I’m on- I’m on me
own now. So I just keep on going you know. I like my walks and
everything you EOS Yeah yeah, yeah EOS You know I like coming here for
my lunch EOS Yeah yeah, yeah, yeah EOS I mean the staff are very good
to you. Were you happy at school? Yes I was very happy at school.
Yeah, yeah. I hate- I hated it EOS Well you- you had to go- you had to
go didn’t you to learn. Yeah yeah mm EOS You know and erm I did have a
brother. Erm mind you he’s not long with me. He passed- Yes, that’s
it- He passed away. I’ve got another brother- You’ve got another
brother, yeah. he lives in Oldham and he do- he do- he rings me once a
fortnight or I- I- or I ring him EOS Yeah, yeah, yeah. and erm I had
another brother but we don’t get on at all. and erm what extra you
are. Schoo- sports, music- we’ve said that haven’t we. I like sports
you know I like sports. No problem at all with sports. You know you do
the sack race and egg-spoon race and all this kind of thing you know.
It says here did you ever get you ever get into trouble at school? No
I didn’t. No you didn’t . No I didn’t. Did you Edmund **anon**? Not
really no. See I- I- I started school at **anon**. Was only there a
year and me parents said it wasn’t suitable cos of me problem with me
speech. They used to hit me over the head with a ruler to get the
words out and it made you wo- And then I went to **anon**. I don’t
know if you’ve ever heard of EOS it’s a- I loved it there. There was
two ladies that’s all who taught you. I didn’t like school with having
the problem with speech. It was- you know- but erm I went and as soon
as I- I was fourteen I EOS I just didn’t like it. So did I get into
trouble? No I don’t think I did. The only t- I- yeah I got six of the
best once. Well I used to write d- I used to go to s- erm the school
that **anon** and there’s always a bully- and I was riding me bike
back to school and he stopped me and he made me give him a lift on my
crossbar. And when I got to school- oh I got stopped- we got stopped
on the way there by a policeman. ‘Which school do you go to?’ So I
told him and the middle of the afternoon I was in the headmaster’s
office and I got six of the best. Caned for doing that. And lookayat
the world today. Just with having someone on- on your bike. On your
crossbar. Well I left school- I think I left school when I was six- I
think I was sixteen when I left s- when I left school, I- Mm. I- I
liked me childhood days yes because I was l- lucky that our house was
only about the- a couple of hundred yards off a farm. oh, that’s nice
EOS And I was always on there and I love animals. And me favourite
animal’s the cow. It’s so laid back and- just like that the cow you
know. So I spent a- a lot of my- my time with animals on- on the farm
you know. Yeah, that’s nice EOS I once- yeah I was still at school and
there was a c- c- couple of farms not- short distance. And the farmer
asked me to go to the other farm and erm excuse me. I was walking it
and there’s some ditches where all the water drains in- and there was
a man on a bike acting suspicious. So I- I watched him and then I went
on and I caught a butterfly in me EOS He cycled up to me then and said
‘what have you got in your hand?’ I said ‘a butterfly’ He said erm,
‘let it go! You don’t know what it’s like t- to be fastened up’. So I
did and erm I went to the other farm and walking back I went to have a
lookayin this ditch. And I found erm clothes, prison clothes . It was
an escaped prisoner. So I left them and I went to the police station
in Urmston and they said ‘have a lookayat will you at this bookayand
see if you can find him’. And I found him and they gave me five
shillings. Oh five shillings oh. S- so erm I can u- understand the
story now with the butterfly and EOS S- so that was on- one of my
school stories anyway and erm I suppose there’s a lot isn’t there
really. But it wasn’t bad. I enjoyed me school i- in a way. And erm
and I’m a great believer your life’s mapped out EOS because on the
piece of land I live now I lived in nineteen thirty. But this is a
modern house now and there was an old house on there. And I didn’t
know when I bought this house exactly where I’d lived. So I do believe
y- your life in a way your pattern of life is led. You know because
I’m going to end up where I started off you know EOS Mm. Have you got
any more Fearne **anon** then them that you’ve thought EOS Well
there’s one here one at the top. W- where are your parents from? Now
that’s an question because erm I got an old photograph at EOS Very old
photograph. Erm when me mother was alive- she lived w- we moved away
from **anon** up to- moved up to **anon**. She was alive then- but I
didn’t knew me father at all. No. So- so I don’t know about that one
but erm I mean me uncles and all that me aunties are you know passed
away. So it’s- Yeah, yeah, yeah. So- so it just that, erm, w- Is your
mother from L- Lancashire or out of the county? Erm sh- sh- she could-
she could be. I mean you know. mm, you don’t really know. We don’t
really know. You know you’re so young you sometimes you EOS Do you
know what happened in those days? They would never tell you EOS Your
parents. They kept s- secret. I erm- when I was five I went to my
Grandma’s funeral in **anon**. And you weren’t allowed to see anything
so I- I was taken for a walk in the village. It was a lovely village.
There was a stream and it was a beautiful village and I was only five.
And all me life I had this picture of this village and whenever I
asked my parents what it was called ‘what do you want to know for?’
And I must’ve been about seventy and we had a motorhome then. And I
said to my wife ‘come on. I’m going to find- the name of this
village’. I knew where one of the ancestors lived and we went into
this erm village and they said ‘oh you’d better ask at the postoffice
he’ll know’. So we went in the postoffice, says ‘I can’t help you.
I’ve only been here two weeks’. So he didn’t know any of the
villagers. So an- anyway in the end we did find a person of the
surname that we were looking for. So we went round to this house and
as we- and I said to me wife ‘get out and ask this lady walking down
the path if they know a **anon**’. So she got out and this lady says
‘come on in it’s me mother’. Yeah. And she told me the name of the
village. So after about seventy years I went back and it still looked
the same to me. But they had secrets they wouldn’t tell you. ‘W- what
do you want to know for?’ And erm- Yeah, yeah, yeah EOS So I’m half
Lancashire and half Yorkshire. Mother’s from Yorkshire. Near **anon**.
And me dad’s from **anon** and he was a joiner. Erm me- m- mother w-
worked in service. What was called service in those days. She more or
less lived in the house and was responsible for the house. Looking
after it. Cleaning it, meals, everything you know EOS and in those
days it was called service. And she worked in **anon** EOS Erm not
much about school is there at the moment? No, no erm EOS it’s just
that I’m looking at this other one here, the local evening news
stories about thi- important people know about your- your town. Well
as I said before in **anon** I meant to t- I meant to tell you this
but I got two sisters which I never seen. very long- for a very long
time. I’ve got their address and I gave it to me brother to- you know
to get in touch you know with us but I don’t know if he’s done it yet.
I don’t know. Sometimes- I usually go down to see him but he meets me
so, cos it’s a long way. c- cos he’s moved into a bungalow now you
see. He’s not- he’s never been married you know, he’s- Well I’m not
asking how old you are Fearne **anon** but - No. I’m not that bothered
about my age. Were you at school in the war or- or af- or after? I’ll
be- I was born in nineteen forty one so I’ll be- Oh you missed it.
Well no you were born in the war. born in the war yeah. mm, mm, mm EOS
So I’ve got an old big photograph you know erm at home somewhere but
EOS I remember I used to have this old three wheeled bike. Very old
three EOS Mm oh yeah. Yeah. A very old one you know. In **anon**, very
old. And the people w- w- when we put our house up for sale EOS and a
nice couple b- bought it. You know nice coloured people bought it you
know EOS So that’s when we moved for my mother’s health you know. So
she couldn’t travel. She couldn’t go out at all much. Well the war
started didn’t it in nineteen thirty nine. Yeah, yeah so- And I was at
**anon** school then- which overlooked the canal. Oh the boats that
went along there they were fabulous you know it’s- you don’t see them
now. They’ve all gone. Massive big boats with a- a- a tug a- at the
front to pull it. T- t- tug at the back to steady it back you know-
and the bridge used to swing EOS and that was good there th- for a- w-
watching that you know. So I- I was at school when the war started and
erm it was a queer time because all the street signs were moved. All
the lights were taken awa- no lights were allowed to be on. All the
cars had to have a light with a slit in it only. It was a- a weird
place didn’t it. All the names went didn’t they. They were taken away
and- and where I lived in **anon** there was a barrage balloon site on
the corner. And the barrage balloon was- it was f- f- filled with gas
and when the airraid came it used to go into the air to stop aircraft
d- diving down. Because we lived a short distance from **anon**- which
was erm industry in the war. And erm- and when the wind was- if the
barrage balloon went up and it was windy the ba- the barrage balloon
used to sway into our- our back garden you know and erm yeah. You just
were frightened to death you know and they erm and leading to **anon**
was big oil drums on the side of the road- with a out. And the Germans
used to follow the ship c- canal from L- Liverpool- when the- the
moonlight was out you can be sure there’s going to be a raid you know.
And you used to f- f- follow the moon No left channel EOS up the canal
and if the wind was blowing to Trafford Park they used to light these
oil drums so a mass of smoke went over the park and they couldn’t find
it. Yeah. So erm- I think I’ve lived in the best time cos radio was
still new. T- television had been thought of but it had been put on
one side because of the war. Buses were always on time. Weren’t they
Fearne **anon**? If you went out for a bus- It’d be there EOS it was
there. And you can erm- it was you know. Now what are the most
important changes in- in a- in your town? Well it’s changed- we have
no cinemas left. No. No we haven’t. There’s- that big one in Sale-
that’s just standing there. I know- I used to go there one time. But
it’s just standing there doing nothing you know. Sh- sh- it’s a shame
really you know. They’ve gone because my youth I used to go to the
cinema about twice EOS And when I got a little bit older, do you
remember Urmston baths? Not the old one. Not the old one. I know the
new one. **anon** talks about- cos it used to be the **anon** EOS Well
the Urmston baths in the winter. They used to empty the water EOS put
a wooden floor over it. And it was sprung like a proper dance floor
and they had dancing every Saturday and Wednesday. And they had a big
bands. About a fifteen piece band that came every EOS That was fun.
And you daren’t drink cos if you’d had a drink a girl wouldn’t dance
EOS It was very strict in those days. So yeah U- Urmston’s v- very
busy now. Whereas I can- one- one memory I’ve got in the school days
when the war started was me mother pushing the pram with my sister in-
down to Urmston a blackout c- c- curtaining you know. Cos we had
orders. We hadn’t got to sh- sh- show any lights at all and- you had
to have your windows blacked out so nobody could see and that is one
of the memories I’ve got. And then the bombs dropping round you. It
was a bit of a hectic time wasn’t it. those- those days, yeah EOS You
never got a night in bed- without you were i- in- in a- a air raid sh-
shelter. Yeah that’s right they’d shelters didn’t they. Yeah. No.
Ours- ours was in the house. There was an Anderson shelter- you’ve-
have you heard of an Anderson? I’m not quite sure if I have heard of
it. It’s all cast- and it’s all iron metal. With four sides and a
metal top. So if the bomb- house fell on it it wouldn’t- you’d be safe
inside there you know. We had a wired mesh all around it like an-
animals . And that was called- and that was inside ours. The Anderson
shelter. We had one outside our house. In our old house. It had like
pebbles over it so it looked like it was just part of the EOS Yeah so
it looked like a part of the garden. Yeah. I never- we couldn’t get
into it cos it was all blocked off inside. But at least I found .
Yeah, yeah. Yeah th- they were scary days weren’t they in a way EOS Mm
it was yeah. You know cos you didn’t know what’s going to happen. I
mean I was only v- I must’ve been very young- to you know. It’s erm-
Well as I said I didn’t like school. Did you move house at all when
you were young? What memories do you have of this? I moved house once.
I moved from where I live now to **anon** another part of **anon**
where me p- parents stayed until they p- passed away so- so they were
there a long time. I- I- I lived there ‘til I was twenty five. Cos
there was a lot going on in Urmston then. I went- with being
stammering I was very shy and reserved and I thought I’ve got to do
summat about this. So I went and had d- d- d- d- dancing lessons in
Urmston. Yeah and I enjoyed it and I’ve got all my medals for dancing
. Yeah and that was a way of b- bringing me out you know EOS Yeah. Mm.
And then course you were always g- going dancing and m- we had a milk
bar in Urmston. Did you- did you have a milk bar at all **anon**? If I
could remember it’s- They only sold milkshakes. Mm. S- sh- shop’s
still there now but they’ve run out of milk. It’s EOS Yeah. I tell you
what I was thinking of last night. I knew what I wanted to do when I
left school and as soon as I was fourteen I was EOS And I wanted to be
a lithographic printer. I was always interested in printing all- this
was nineteen forty four. There was one year left of the war. But it
was ending and there were soldiers were arriving home then. So they
had to have their old jobs back. You c- I c- could not get a job EOS
to be a lithographic printer. So- I’m talking a lot aren’t I. No you
ca- no you carry on you carry on! So there was an advert in the
newspaper. The evening news. ‘Boy wanted to learn lithographic
printing’ Manchester. So I was there for eight o’clock and the job had
gone. Dear me. Anyway so they said ‘but we’ve got a vacancy in the
handwritten department’. Now don’t ask me what that was. So they- I
went along with them upstairs and they showed me. There was about nine
men working there all doing handwritten posters- which they did in
those days. I mean I can r- r- remember Urmston it was just full of
posters on the walls. Most of those were hand done. All- o- others
were lithographic printed so I started there. And erm to cut a long
story short I did that the rest of my life for fifty EOS But when I
worked there got a pound a week. And I’ve written this down because
I’d forget it wouldn’t I EOS You came prepared . I had to go on the
bus to Manchester six days a week. That cost me fifty four d, old p-
pence a week. I had to give me m- mother ninety p oh no d, of the old
money. I used to go to the pictures twice a week for th- th- thirty d.
Thirty pence. Thirty eight old money and I was left with sixty six p-
for a week and that was a pound. And I used to live on it EOS and I
think now. I think that’s now why it’s made me appreciate- the value
of money. And erm if I can jump a bit further I then left there and
went to work for another firm who did, you won’t have heard of these
will you- You’ll have heard of them won’t you? Oh yes, yeah, yeah.
Well the **anon** were the biggest circuit in England of cinemas. And
some cinemas used to change three times a week. Monday Tuesday
Wednesday, Thursday Friday Saturday and a different one on a Sunday-
so people went. And there was about- I think there was sixty of us
worked there. And we used to do abou- I- I forget the amount but it
was in hundreds. The circuit was in hundreds of cinemas. And we used
to do them all by hand every week. One week’s holiday. A forty eight
hour week and that’s where I really learnt me job there you know my
trade. They went bankrupt. And I got oth- other jobs you know and then
I always wanted to have me own business and I started my own business
in nineteen sixty six . I found this old property and I started in
business on two weeks holiday pay that I’d got from the firm. Fifteen-
thirty pound it was for two weeks. Out of that I had to pay sixteen
pound to rent the shop. It was a big gamble wasn’t it. But I was lucky
that I got the c- custom you know. Struggled and erm- but people were
good in those days c- anyway I- I managed to get- make friends with a
chappy who worked for I think it was Esso petroleum. And he- he was
responsible for ad- advertising and he used to bring me the
advertising to do you know big wooden signs. And so I hadn’t erm money
to buy the wood even to do them on. But there was a wonderful sh- shop
in **anon** where th- you know they used to sell wood. And he said to
me ‘Edmund **anon** you take it. When you get paid you pay me’ and I
thought that was lovely that. You know. And I worked on my own for t-
twenty five years and enjoyed it. Erm and I lookayback on life it’s-
it’s had its bad times I’ve EOS First time okay, you can’t have it
perfect can you. And then me wife- I went out with me wife once when I
was about eighteen and the problem was she was a friend of the fam- or
their- her parents were a friend of my parents and whenever she came
round I went out you know. So anyway we went out with each other once.
We didn’t like each other EOS We went off an married somebody else and
fifteen years later I got divorced. D- didn’t know where **anon** was.
Hadn’t the slightest where she was. Until a friend of mine who was an
insurance agent he said ‘I’ve just knocked at a house in Stretford and
this **anon**- **anon** came to the door.’ I said ‘did she?’ He said
‘yeah’ he said erm ‘she’s got divorced and she’s living in **anon**
and she’s a bit of alright yeah Edmund **anon**’ Left channel resumes
EOS So Edmund **anon** wrote to her mother EOS And that’s how that
started all over again. So you can see why I believe your life’s
mapped out. Cos how did I meet her again in **anon** when I was here?
And both divorced and things. Yeah this is it you know. And that- that
was fantastic that. I’ve got a boy off me first marriage and off the
second I’ve got t- two girls EOS One’s okay One’s very okay, one’s
lovely. And the other one sh- she was even odd with her mother you
know. I haven’t heard off her for a year now. I mean her mum died th-
th- th- what three year ago now wouldn’t it be. Yeah. And erm sh-
she’s strange. Course there’s always strange ones about. P- people say
I’m strange. No left channel EOS Well when I left school- when I left
school I would I did erm I work in **anon**- in a factory but erm I
was a- I was a cleaner there. Cleaner. You know full time cleaner. Oh
yeah, yeah. I’ve not just do- I’ve always done cleaning. Who do you
work for? I might know them. Erm well it’s called **anon**- **anon**.
It’s not- they’re not there an- But the building’s still there. Yeah.
No I don’t remember them. Erm the- it- quite a few got made redundant.
I couldn’t tell you how many years that was. But I was made redundant.
And then I worked in the erm- in the canteen you know. I’ve done EOS
I’ve done looking after children- And erm as you know I look after
dogs and all this kind of thing. Yeah of course. Yeah yeah. Mm. You
know erm hal- in the fact the people I’ve just c- come back from EOS
Erm it was me last night last night cos they came- They came back did
they? Yeah. back yesterday afternoon about half past two. Yeah. They
were very pleased everything was okay you know. Cos they know. I’ve
been with them what it must be about twenty one years I’ve been with
them you know cos they know they can trust me EOS Mm, mm, that’s
right. you know. They know the two cats are being getting looked
after. That’s the most important thing in life isn’t it trust. Trust
t- trust you know. You know. If they trust you. I’ve got a lady who
does my house work and I come out many a day and she lets herself in
and I’ve got a lot of f- faith in and trust in her and it’s nice to
have- cos that’s important part of life is trust. Isn’t it? I you
don’t mind if I chatter? No you carry on EOS . It’s what he’s good at
EOS He is isn’t he carry on. In ninetee- with having me own business-
in nineteen seventy four I was invited to join the Rotary Club
**anon**. Have you heard of Rotary? No. You’ll- you might’ve heard of
Rotary. I might’ve heard of it. Long time ago . They used to come
round the streets at C- Christmas time with a Christmas float. Yours
in **anon**- Yeah they used to do it- they used- and Lymm- Lymm- Lymm
R- Rotary Club came round. And it- it was- it was started in America
originally. And it’s for business men you know who’ve reached the top
of the EOS Well I couldn’t go any higher cos I worked myself. You see.
So- I was invited to join you know. And that was good. And that gave
me a lot of confidence- because they have to stand up and s- give a
talk once a year. And I was still very bad stammering. And erm when it
was my t- turn the first time they said ‘Edmund **anon** you don’t
have to do it if you don’t want’. I said I’m going to make them have
it you know. But I did it okay because they’re all on your side.
That’s the best part of it. So I w- I was in t- twenty one years in
Rotary. I was ch- chairman of the community section which looked after
the area you know and I loved- I like local charity work- Mm. Yeah.
Yeah. and looking after the area where I know. And whenever it was my
turn to speak th- the president would announce it the week before that
next weeks speaker is Edmund Jacobs **anon**- and we’re extending the
lunch half an hour EOS But all that helped you. And do you know what I
ended up there doing? I was speaker’s EOS And yeah. Now that was a
good p- part of my life. An- and the wife was in- i- in the ladies
section. I was invited every year to be president but because you had
to visit other clubs I’ve turned it down. But my wife acc- c- cepted
the ladies side of it. so I used to go out for free meals with her
then. So tha- that was it. Yeah but in those days Rotary was nearly
consisted of- doctors, surgeons, solicitors. All local people. All the
shops in Urmston were owned b- by the actual owner. They were
privately owned. And they were all members of the Rotary Club. But
there’s none left EOS You’ve got the dentist. You’ve got them all
sorts of- all walks of life as a member. And erm but it’s gone now.
You can’t walk into any shop without its being a big c- concern. I
mean there’s not a- a lot of these shops like **anon** left EOS where
you can s- s- see the owner. They’ve gone. That’s the personal touch
that’s gone. Yeah you’re right. Because I was- a lady I rented me shop
off she said to me cos her’s was a- next door she says ‘let me give
you a bit of advice. Get a good EOS and never lose the personal
touch’. And you’re always there to- That’s the thing with the chain
stores isn’t it. Well it is yeah. They don’t have the personal touches
and- It’s sad that isn’t it you know. And like I said earlier on the
buses were always on time. I mean I had to be at work for eight
o’clock . Excuse me. And if I missed the twenty five past seven there
was one at half past. And if I missed the half past there was one at
twenty five to. And the twenty five to just got me there. You know.
But there wasn’t as m- many p- people on the roads then- so the b-
buses weren’t held up. Erm have you got anything else for a- a minute?
Well I’m on this- what do local people like? What do the local people
like? Well where I- where I live in **anon** I’ve got- I’ve got good
EOS You know. Erm I mean at the back there’s no houses it’s just
fields EOS I do have good erm some people- Well I’ve noticed that now.
Yeah very ni- Now I’m you know on- on my own. Everybody knows me. I
know them. bet you chat to them all EOS And erm- and a- a lady
opposite with her husband you know. And when I go out at all in the
evening which is not- I don’t like to go out now. It’s not safe for-
older people to go out and that’s one of the sad things of life which
I’ll go back to in a minute that. It’s reminded me of something. Erm
I’ve got to let this lady know I’m going out and w- when I’ll be back.
Which is good. So she can keep an eye on you. It’s to keep an eye on
me cos she knows if- if I don’t get up in the morning something’s
happened don’t they. You know what they used to like Fearne **anon**?
Christmas time. Go into Manchester looking at **anon** arcade. Oh
**anon** aye. When it was Christmas it- **anon** had long windows down
the side of an EOS The other side of the arcade was **anon** and erm
every window was decorated at Christmas with animation and animals and
moving and there was a real spirit of Christmas. And people used to go
down especially just to look in the windows when it was closed. Now I
came to Urmston on Sunday and I drove th- th- through Urmston- excuse
me and nearly every window was shuttered. Metal shutters. Well in my
youth you could walk and look in all the EOS Enjoy yourself. Nowhere
was open EOS but today it’s all ‘keep out’ shutters- Keep it. Yeah.
Keep out, yeah EOS you know. We don’t want you and all like that and-
No, yeah, yeah. And I saw s- something the other day that disgusted me
really. House for sale sign and they’ve got to s- s- set them alight
these days. Well what do they get out of it? This is it- W- w- what do
you get out of damaging anything? Mm. It’s the same you know a car’s
been stolen. They burn it don’t EOS Many times in **anon**- they’re
forced to put these new railings up at that big school. Many time- I-
and we used to go in there and we used to look after the dogs. And
they used to take the dogs in there. I kept them on the lead cos they
weren’t my dogs. And erm I used to take you know a doggy bag with me.
Anyway you always see- every now and again you see cars been burned.
Oh yeah, yeah. And I f- I feel sorry for the person. The person yeah.
You know. Find out one morning the car’s not there. Yeah. You can’t- I
can’t understand- I- I can’t understand why they can’t- why they do
this kind of thing. Did you want to ask us any questions? Are w- are
w- are we running out of time? Erm you’ve got t- ten minutes. My g-
my- Can I just say? Erm my wife and I we- a lot of people don’t like
EOS I had one and I used to hold people up on the road. You know. we
did about th- th- thirty years you know. But when I- I- I retired my
s- we’ll go up into a motorhome which was as fast as a car could go.
And I’ve been all over England, Scotland and Wales and our hobby when
I r- retired was adopting the old guide dogs. Oh yeah I . Oh I loved
doing that and I’ve got five dogs’ ashes in the back EOS And I’m an
emotional person and the first dog we adopted w- was- the owner was
blind and deaf. Yeah blind and deaf. So he had to be with a g- guide
dog but he couldn’t hear as well. God that must be difficult. So that
was difficult. So the pers- so w- got her you know y- y- you’re
interviewed at home to see if you’re suitable. And w- when you get the
dog they come back in a fortnight to make sure that you’re- the dogs
are settled. And we- oh we went to this dog called Honey. And the day
before we got a phone call from the guide dogs. He says ‘I hope you
don’t mind he wants to meet you’. I said ‘no I don’t mind’ you know.
And erm- so we went down and we met him. M- m- my wife sat beside him
and questions were asked and if it meant just a yes or a- a no answer-
my wife had to either t- t- t- tap his hand for yes. I forget which
way round or- rub it for no you know. And anyway the- he had a- like
a- a machine tha- a braille machine. And the guide dog people used to
t- t- type the message in and he picked it up. So that- but he must’ve
gone deaf later in life cos he could still EOS So he could talk to us,
anyhow, after half an hour he’d- he’d handed over the- the- the lead
to my wife. He’d handed over the dog’s tablets. He had his other dog
there- but he was handing over his eyes and his ears. And after half
an hour they said to me ‘Mr Jacobs **anon** will you t- t- take the
dog’s lead and go’. Well I got outside there and I thought I’ve taken
his eyes and ears away and I cried my eyes out. and they had to take
me for a cup of tea you know. It’s- it’s a traumatic situation- Yeah.
I’ve- I’ve done a lot of erm- I do a lot of charity work for- for
animals you know. Oh okay Yeah. And I- you know you had coppers I’d
save them in a carrier bag. Sainsbury’s carrier bag and I take them
down to erm Sale. the, you know, for sick animals. That’s what I did
because I love animals you know. I don’t like to see people to be
cruel you know. Oh no no. Well I seen a greyhound near- in Partington-
I don’t know who it belongs to but it had a- like a- one of these
white collars you know. Oh yeah. Yeah. I don’t know if it had escaped
from a greyhound thing or what. Mm somebody owned it yeah. Or- it came
up to me friendly. I was watching these- these lads you know. They’re
always drinking frigging beer. Wha- you know. Yeah oh I know. Yeah mm.
I didn- I saw this- this chap ‘go away, go a- away’. And I thought
leave him alone. Poor thing’s not doing any harm. Yeah of course he’s
not hurting anyone. And I took some biscuits out with me last night.
and he wasn’t there. No so I don’t know who- who owns it. But it’s a-
it’s a shame you EOS Well, when- when we had ordinary dogs you know
pet dogs before we started to adopt- Oh that’s right. We got to the
end of the- I- with the guide dogs. I was saying I don’t think I can
have another because of walking them. So the vet came out with the
dogs. He says ‘this dogs are l- these dogs are lovely to walk’. T-
twenty minutes a day and they spent the rest of the time by the fire.
And that was a greyhound. So erm anyway I- I never got round to it
because me doggy died and then me wife died. And on your own you can’t
look after a dog. But just going back to life. Fearne **anon** and
myself go to church. Now whether that’s made us any better people I
don’t know. Well it does with me because I mean I do believe. You
know. I’m- I am a Christian and I do believe. And I do a lot for
**anon** church in **anon**. And I help out with the Sunday School as
well you see- with the children. The lady what’s been doing it for a-
a- well her EOS She’d been doing it for a long time. She does all the
work you know EOS And I just go in with her to help her you know.
that’s what I’m going to do as well. I enjoyed ch- church. Really
enjoyed it. Been all me life cos I was first introduced when I was
five. With going to a church school. And then a church school. And
then I was in the best youth club of all which was a church and then I
moved away from the church w- when I got married first time. Never
went back. And I’ve been a very active member involved in doing
everything. And enjoyed it. Now I won’t mention any names or where I’m
going but this vicar doesn’t get the best out of me. Yeah, and it’s
sad that. And he knows it. He’s a nice chap. Great with my wife when
she was EOS I mean, he said to us m- me daughter ‘any time night or
day you want me call me’. Well me wife died at home. Five o clock in
the mor- morning. I was lucky that night that I had erm a nurse f-
from **anon** who was EOS Cos I wouldn’t have known what to do on me
own properly. So I rang me daughter up. She came and she said ‘I’m
going to ring EOS And he was w- with us within half an hour. So he-
he- he was good on that side. When you really needed him he was there
and I think being a church m- member has helped me a lot in life. I-
I’m very honest. I’m very sincere. I talk a lot. I l- I like to listen
to you you know. I like to listen to you EOS I’ve got hundreds of
stories that I can’t- But is it- an- nearly up yet? There is a large amount of background noise throughout the recording
– this does not generally affect the audibility but is present
throughout EOS no, no, you’re right EOS it’s a good job I checked that
EOS oki doki, so can you just- just talk for a couple of seconds
normally just so I can EOS my name is Harriet Rickman **anon** EOS and
I am absolutely fantastic EOS great what about you? Harriet **anon**
speaks for the rest of the family with EOS right, that’s fine I think
EOS erm, take it away EOS right, so what I was saying before is, years
ago, when kids where in the street if they were cheeky or anything
like that EOS you give them a clip round the ear EOS and if they went
running in saying to their Mum, ‘Mum, Mum, Mrs such- and-such-a-body’,
or, ‘Aunty Doree’s just hit me’ her answer would be, ‘well, you
must’ve deserved it’ EOS and it was right, whereas now, a kid in the
street, the other week it was, erm, he stood right in front of me and
he wouldn’t let me pass EOS so, I got his arms like that and I moved
him to one side EOS where was this, in yours? it- yeah, on- on
**anon** EOS and he goes, ‘you’re not allowed to touch me, I’m going
to get the police’, so that’s what you get now EOS whereas years ago,
cos you knew you was gonna get a clip round the EOS you didn’t do it
EOS you didn’t do it EOS or you chose who you did it to EOS it- it’s a
different story, and like I say, you were always in your EOS all- a
lot of the doors were open, kids were playing, I remember EOS you
know, the door was open, he was in and out, and all the kids were in
the street EOS you never sorta moved out your area EOS whereas now,
they do move out the area, they do wander all over the place, and
they’re in gangs EOS you see th- I think the thing is though aswell
like I- the- culturally, we’ve changed so much, like, in them days EOS
forty, fifty years ago, you stayed with- from- from where you was born
you went to school, you got married, and you moved into the EOS near
your Mam EOS and that’s- that’s what happened, whereas nowadays, you
know, we- w- we finished school, and, you know, I come from Salford,
but I might get a job, say, in Warrington, or Cheshire, or well,
anywhere, because we’re a lot more mobile, we’ve got cars, trains, and
I- y- which you didn’t have in them days EOS yeah, so you’d move out
your area and a lotta p- like you say, a lotta people are moving so
the community is gone EOS people don’t know everybody like they used
to EOS do you know EOS the- the know them there, them there, you know,
and now, that’s gone, some people don’t even see their neighbours,
yeah, a- or acknowledge them EOS I’ve got a lad near- do you know EOS
I- you know, it’s very rare I mean I’ll- I’ll let onto them neighbours
there, but they never speak to anybody EOS erm, and- but EOS what I’m
thinking is, if you move away, so, say you move to Warrington from-
from Manchester when you’re bringing your own children up, you don’t
know your neighbours, so you wouldn’t allow your children to play in
the street would you EOS t- sp- no, no, th- that’s another thing, a
lotta kids now, at one s- that’s- I mean **anon** said to me the other
day, ‘put the baby at the door’, he says, ‘I took him for a- took him
for EOS ‘and I parked him outside the door’, he says, ‘now how often
do you see a child parked outside the door getting some fresh-’ you
never, but at one time babies were- you had a baby and, ‘ooh, look,
they’ve had a new baby’ cos it’d be outside the front door EOS in a
morning, washed, fed, time for a nap, in the pram and outside in the
air, you never see that now EOS they never put a baby at the front
door, cos you’re too scared someone’s gonna come along EOS and snatch
it EOS yeah, yeah, it’s horrible that really isn’t it EOS cause that’s
I mean- I think that’s one- the one where you do get talking to
people, is, because, you know, y- you’ll be talking about, ‘ooh, is
that you’re dog’, or ‘is that- ohh, is- is that your little’n’ and
that’s how you get communities building up, so it- it- it’s hard now
isn’t it, I mean if you’re working full time, so the kids are being
dropped off at a childminder’s, when do you get time to mix EOS that’s
it, but that’s another thing you see, I’d say ninety percent of the
mothers work now EOS whereas they didn’t then EOS nobody worked then
so, mothers were at home all day EOS they could socialise with the
neighbours, and get to know the neighbours, whereas now, you’re up in
the morning, children at babyminders, out at work, pick the kids up
after work, back home, doing the tea, you’re too knackered to do
anything else, to go socialising, most of the time it’s- it’s EOS
weekends, and then it’s people you already know EOS so you don’t get-
y- you lose- you losing a lot of the community, not EOS well, like I
say, women having to go out to work EOS because they can’t afford to
survive on the one wage EOS but that’s as well, because we’ve got very
materialistic, cos at one EOS if you didn’t have a telly, you didn’t
have a telly EOS it didn’t matter EOS but now everybody wants, ‘ooh,
the Joneses have got this, so’ EOS ‘we want one’ EOS so, to get these
things you’ve and- and in getting them things I think you’re
sacrificing the community part of it EOS you know, there’s that little
network is dwindling, but everyone’s becoming more materialistic,
they’ve got the video, they’ve got the computer, the children have got
all the best trainers, and this, that and the other EOS two cars on
the drive, yeah EOS you’re g- you’re gaining material things- in one
way, yeah EOS but you’re losing some of the values in the home, and
the social EOS think, on that side EOS I absolutely agree with you w-
on that, and I think from my perspective, you know, when m- me Mum
left school, her views on life, were, you know, get married to a
lovely fella, have children, build- build a home EOS you know, she-
she went to, erm, to college to do secretarial, erm, work as a stop
gap, until what she wanted was to get married, and have EOS wanted to
get married, but- when I was leaving school, the last thing on earth I
wanted to do was get married and have children, to me that was a put
down EOS my- from my perspective, it was, no, get out in the
workforce, you’re getting the best job you can, you’re earning your
own money, you know, your own wheels, independent EOS so I mean, in-
in that short space of time and- time and you’re only talking, well me
Mum was twenty-one when she had me and **anon** so it’s only, pff,
eighteen, twenty years EOS for a complete turn around EOS turn around,
yeah EOS but now I think women are realising EOS in- in, you know, in
this day in age, that we’ve lost out somewhere, you know, we’ve made a
rod for our own back, not only are we, you know, bringing up families,
running a household, you know, keeping a relationship together,
hopefully, if you do, but we’re also working EOS I know, it’s funny
because did you see it on the telly, that they said, although women
have got more rights, erm, more independence than this, that and the
other they are less happy, th- erm, ninety percent of them are less
happy than they were fifty years ago EOS you know, th- they- I can
really believe that EOS really not content at all EOS they said and I-
I- I think it was Loose Women I was watching and th- they were saying
EOS I love them, and they were saying it’s because, this professor
says it’s because, women have too high expectations of love EOS and
romance and what they expect EOS and one of them said, it’s not that
they have too high a expectations, it’s that they won’t settle for
anything less EOS whereas at one time, if you got married, you stayed
because of the EOS and you put up with abuse, and you put up with
drinking, and you put up with all sorts, because EOS that was the
norm, it was a big shame at one time to get divorced, the- the- you
know, separate EOS cause I think it was always the woman who was to
blame, no matter what went on EOS on, yeah, yeah EOS you know,
socially, it was always the woman who was to blame you know, she
couldn’t keep her marriage together, she couldn’t do this EOS she’s
the one with the problem, whereas th- I mean that must’ve been the
shame that people had to carry if they decided to leave a EOS yeah, I-
I couldn’t imagine EOS having to stay in a relationship that I wasn’t
happy in, no way EOS I just couldn’t, I d- I- I wonder how these women
coped EOS do you know, I’ve thought about this, and I honest- honestly
think that because women didn’t have a choice in them days, erm, and
perhaps I’m- might be talking a hundred years ago when divorce wasn’t
on the cards, erm, but you know, I know people from other cultures
from- from cultures which are very similar, erm, Ni- Nigerian culture,
if they- they’re not happy in a marriage, they haven’t got a choice,
they have to stay at it, and I think if you think about it, that makes
you work harder at it, if you haven’t got a choice, if you’re stuck
with this bugger for the next seventy years, you aint gotta choice,
you’ll work at making the relationship work for you because you don’t
have a choice, and perhaps now we’re- we’re just, perhaps we’re
thinking, ‘oh no, forget that, farts in bed, that’s it, gone, next
one’ EOS it’s too easy for us, yeah, too easy for us to change, I
suppose there’s certain things in that that you could say, yeah EOS
but there’s the extremes where you get EOS really horrible men that
EOS are abusive and stuff EOS women died because they couldn’t leave
they’d, you know, g- get beat up and summet could happen whereas, mind
you, even now today you will see that a battered wife ninety percent
of them stay with the husband EOS they don’t always report it, they
cover it up, they, you know EOS because they say it’s a syndrome don’t
they, once you get in that situation, it’s very, very hard EOS to get
out EOS and I- I think- I think that- that’s t- very true, that is-
that is very true, but- and I think that’s- the- a battered wife
syndrome is different from an unhappy marriage, or- or a marriage that
isn’t- or, a relationship that isn’t as fulfilling as you would want
it to EOS yeah, it’s not got the spark- what- what you perceive as
love and the excitement and the butterflies in your stomach EOS I
don’t care who gets that EOS after twelve month that goes doesn’t it
EOS course it does EOS and it does end up the norm, you know, just EOS
like a routine, ‘morning, love, right, off to work, see you later,
what do you want for tea’ EOS but in some ways I think that’s really
nice and that’s, you know, that’s one of the things I miss about being
in a long term relationship, perhaps the mundane-cy of it, but,
there’s somebody there who says, ‘do you want a brew love’, or, I’d-
I- I know what you mean, and I agree with you, that’s nice, but EOS
the rot sets in EOS a problem can start, because when you’re both
going out to work, you’re both meeting new people, and then someone
pays you attention, and there’s a bit of excitement there, that’s when
EOS that hum drum life all of a sudden becomes, ‘I don’t know if I can
put up with that’, you know, do you know what I mean because EOS
there’s a bit of excitement over there and I think, even in a- a
marriage where it’s hum-drum like that EOS you still need a bit of
excitement in some way or another EOS to keep it going EOS but, don’t
you think nowadays, you know, w- we’re a little bit more educated
about, erm, relationships, and about keeping relationships going, you
know, as much as you know, I would- I would stand up to any young girl
and say, ‘you do not put up with that in a relationship’, I would- I
would stand up to them and say, ‘if you want a relationship to stay
together, you need to still go out together, you still need to have a
laugh together if y- you know, and put them into your marriage, or
else, you know, that’s the way marriages go, but at the end of the day
it’s still how can you always fit it in, because, when you’re both
working y- you know what I mean, when you buy- I think if you get
married and you buy a property EOS ninety percent of your time goes
towards your home, working for EOS and that is sometimes, is that-
like I say, we’re getting too materialistic in a lot of things EOS so,
instead of, like you say, keeping the excitement and everything in
your marriage EOS things tend to go materialistic, ‘oh, we want this
for the home and ooh, have you seen that over, ooh yeah, we’ll get one
of them big massive screen tellys and’ EOS and so all your time is
getting the money together for all these EOS and then that that takes
away from your personal EOS don’t- don’t you think EOS it’s about a
collection of things round you EOS don’t you think it’s more a case of
you know, ‘I can’t leave this set up because I’ve got- I’ve still got
payments left on me car’ EOS ‘or I’ve still-’ do you know what- I know
it sounds sad EOS and it really does sound sad, but, I- I- I’ve gotta
hand- hold me hand up, I’ve done that in the past, you know, thinking,
‘oh I can’t- can’t leave him this week, you know, I’ve still got
payments left on me car’ and EOS payments left on me car, oh my God, I
suppose EOS but I think it’s not all negative because I look at me
stepson’s relationship and I think men are much more hands on with
regard to children these days- ah yeah that is something that has-
that’s changed EOS cause they really lost out, men lost out didn’t
they in the past EOS I don’t think they lost out, I don’t think they
wanted to be bothered, to be truthful with you EOS cause it was- I
still remember Granddad **anon**, he used to go to work, come home and
sit in the corner with his paper and he didn’t like a lot of mither
off EOS oh God no EOS kids, do you know, it was- that was his routine
EOS yeah, it was, ‘shh, don’t go in there, me Granddad’s in there’ EOS
and it’s like whatsits Dad, his a- his attitude was, ‘I go out to work
it’s my house I pay the bills and I’ll watch what I want on telly’ I
mean, I’ve seen him come in switch- she’s been EOS telly goes over she
goes to- no, I’m not joking, like, that is the God’s honest truth EOS
switches the telly over? he’d been out in the pub, he’s come in EOS
she’s in the middle of a film, and he just- he just turned it- I was
sat with her and I c- turned it over, and she went, ‘I was watching
that’, ‘I pay the bills in this house, I’m the one that goes out to
work, I’ll watch what I want’ I was EOS there was steam coming out me
ears EOS I come, ‘I’ve got to go now’ EOS and I just walked out and
I’m like this EOS it was- it was horrendous EOS and it was so funny
cos they came to our house and erm, **anon** asked, ‘erm, do you want
a brew’ this that, ‘erm, yeah, yeah, go on, I’ll have a can, yeah,
yeah, yeah’ and he goes erm, ‘ooh erm, such-and- such-a-body’s on’ and
he turned the telly over, and he goes, ‘ooh, it’s good this, it’s good
match this’ and I just got the remote, I come ‘I pay the bills in
here, we don’t watch sport in this EOS and he walked, I thought
there’s no way you can do that in your home, you’re not doing it in
mine EOS do you know what I mean, and they went they left- do you
know, honestly EOS and you probably caused a big bloody argument
through that EOS argument, but that’s what I’m saying, that was the
way then EOS the women stayed at home, they cleaned the house, they
looked after the children, the men went to work, had a pint, come
home, tea on the EOS and they didn’t want no mither EOS do you know,
mm, and that was the routine EOS and it was more the women that had
the social circle like I say, all EOS and everything, the men it was,
down the pub EOS yeah, I remember when we was kids, we had loads of
Auntys EOS who weren’t our Auntys EOS Auntys, no, no, but it was
always EOS Aunty **anon**, cos you didn’t go, Mrs **anon** or Mrs
**anon** EOS it was Aunty **anon**, Aunty **anon**, Aunty **anon**,
you know EOS they were all Aunties EOS and like I say EOS you did
summet wrong, they didn’t go running telling your Mum, you got a clip
round the ear EOS and if you went and told your Mum, you’d get another
one EOS got another one EOS yeah, and it was ‘well, you must’ve
deserved it’ EOS cause I can still remember that EOS cause they don’t-
they’re not gonna crack you for nothing EOS and it wasn’t a whack, it
was just, like you say, a clip round the ear, ‘eh, you little bugger,
what do you think you’re doing’ EOS but you can’t- there was nothing
abusive in it EOS it was just a case of, you know, ‘when your Mam’s
not here, I’m your EOS ‘you do what you’re told’ EOS told, yeah now
you can’t e- there’s no way you can do any of that, and I tell you
what an- irritates me with the grandkids, the eldest in particular
these mobile phones, you can’t have a decent conversation with them
because it’s, ‘erm, yeah oh alri- alright Nanna, erm, what was that,
what, erm, oh alright, yeah, yeah’ EOS and they’re like this EOS
while- while they’re on EOS so that you know they’re not listening to
you EOS they’re too busy on- on- on- on the phone- on the phone
texting EOS yeah, fingers going EOS and when they- when they’ve text
me, right, have you ever got one of these texts, and I’m going, ‘what
the what’ and I put two pairs of glasses on and I still don’t
understand it and it’s all text EOS code code, yeah EOS all text
writing, and I wonder, you know like y- y- everything evolves, you
know like erm, years and years and years ago they used to speak all
drawn out and everything EOS and like you say, we’ve shortened it, do
you think we’ll end up writing like they text now in years to come EOS
we may well do, we may well do EOS do you know another- another change
EOS yeah and- well, I mean things evolve don’t they EOS yeah because
I’ve- I said to someone, no so long ago, I says EOS the way they used
to talk, ‘thou shalt do’ you know EOS years ago, the ways they used to
write and do that EOS I says, and then it all got changed to more a
less speaking- writing how you speak, and now, is it gonna be, you’re
writing how you text EOS well it is, it is, I mean y- w- do you know,
and so that could be another EOS when y- you email people now, you
shorten everything EOS I mean I’ve learned a few of them, like, I
mean, L-O-L is ‘laugh out EOS is it? I thought it was ‘lots of love’
EOS ha, ha, ha, no, ‘mwah’ is a kiss M-W-A-H, mwah like EOS but the
best one that I’ve learnt that use quite a lot actually, is P- M-L, in
capitals, pissed meself laughing EOS ooh but that’s it, I j- I thought
L-O-L was ‘lots of love’ because a lot of people do that at the end of
a text, ‘right, going now, bye, L-O-L’, so I thought it was ‘lots of
love’, erm, and I- if- I’ve started doing little bits like, if I’m
texting **anon**, erm, ‘are you on your way’ and I’ll put, just an
‘R’, then a ‘U’ EOS do you know like, that- little things like that,
but I don’t know all the others that EOS no, well we’ll have to learn
because I mean- it- but that’s what I’m saying EOS it’s so- so much
quicker, when you’re- you know, you’re emailing EOS yeah, yeah, but
that’s what I’m saying, I think this EOS is gonna change the whole
thing again EOS because it’s all computers, it’s all erm, mobile
phones and texting EOS so I do think in the next ten years, it’s all
gonna change again and, people are gonna be writing like- it’s like a
shorthand isn’t it, instead of- cos I know our **anon** says, ‘it
takes you bleeding ages to text me back’ EOS because I do the whole
thing, you know EOS ‘and’ and ‘the’ and everything is wrote, you know,
properly, and she’s there going, ‘for God’s sake’, I says, ‘yeah, but
I’m not used to texting’, I’m not used to typing, so it takes me ten
minutes EOS to find the letter and the key that I want EOS do you know
what I mean, I’m getting a bit quicker now but at first I’d g- I’d get
bored before I got to the end of what I was trying to EOS do you know
EOS well I was on- on the laptop, erm, last week it was, erm and I’m
typing away, and next thing I get ‘beep’, I thought, ‘who is- who’s
this?’ this bloke, erm, is- is talking to m- talking to me, so I’m
texting him back, no, talking to him back, then next thing, you know,
you get your camera comes up, so he get the web- webcam come up, cos
my name’s Son **anon** he thought he was talking to a fella EOS this
twenty year old bloke in erm, Portugal wi- with the same last name as
me EOS so I mean, we had a right conversation cos he- he does the
surfing, just West of Lagos, where I’ve been out to a lo- loada times,
so the next time I going over, I’m going to see him for a drink, now
that’s EOS do you know- that is the future EOS that’s how you pick a
fella up EOS honest to God I- I wouldn’t know how to do that, in fact,
a few times erm, I’ve- when I was going to excuse me, ‘Sign’ **anon**
EOS a few of them said, ‘ooh, we go on these chat-room things and EOS
‘and we have a right laugh, and I met a few people’, I says, ‘oh
right’, well the first thing, I we- I went into hysterics, cos I says,
‘ooh, what is it, I’ll have a go at that’ she goes, ‘ooh, it’s called
plenty of fish’, well EOS I set off laughing, I says ‘it’s called
what?’, she says, ‘plenty of EOS she says, ‘the only trouble is’ she
says, ‘you have to be careful cos some of them are only after one
thing’ I says, ‘well do you think that could be because of the name of
the site?’ EOS you know, ‘plenty of fish’, she says, ‘I never thought
of that’, well I was- I nearly choked laughing EOS right, but each
time I try to get onto these things EOS I can’t do it EOS oh, I’ll
show you EOS but I must do something because I keep getting things
saying EOS ‘we’ve found your perfect match’ or ‘somebody wants to get
in touch with you but when I try to go back on it, you know, I’ll
press it on me emails to go EOS and I still get lost and I don’t know
what I’m doing and I think, ‘oh, sack it’ and it’s frustrating EOS you
know, so I don’t bother, I just play solitaire on the computer EOS and
I’ll sit- I’m just naïve me, I ge- I got one called erm, **anon** so I
thought, ooh, I’ll, you know- **anon** it’s called- is that- did you
send me something about that? don’t think so EOS oh, go on EOS but I
mean, it said like, join this, I’m thinking, ‘yeah, go on then’ I’m
thinking it’s like facebook you know, a social networking site, so I
goes on, next thing, ‘beep’, th- this fella, ‘oh hello Sonia **anon**,
I really like your photo, can I see your- your album’ well I’m taking
the piss, so I’ve put my photograph on erm, and I hate being judged by
me- me age, so instead of putting I was born in **anon**, I put I was
born in nineteen sixteen, so, my photo album’s called, ‘look at me,
I’m ninety three’ EOS so, so, that’s got this fella, you know, ‘can I
have a look at your album’, ‘what for?’, ‘please let me have a look at
your album’, ‘oh, alright then’, so it’s- next thing, I’ve got fifteen
fellas, throughout the globe, one- one was in China, one was in Italy,
somewhere, one- and they’re all talking, and typing furiously away,
‘what do you wanna look at me photos for, don’t you know I’m ninety
three’ but that w- that is a completely dodgy site, and I’m telling
you now I was talking t- I’m just naïve me, so I’m talking to this
fella, from erm, where was he from? Stafford, so I’m saying, ‘ooh, w-
what’s the weather like in Stafford’, ‘oh, it’s alright, you know’,
‘what you up to today?’, ‘oh, well I- I drive erm, a wagon for a
living’, I went, ‘oh, do you, do you get up- do you get up to
Manchester often?’, ‘ooh yeah, I’m in Trafford Park erm, all the time,
next time I come up I’ll give you a call’ I went, ‘ooh right, alright
fine’ next thing, ‘erm, so what’s your number?’, ‘erm, well I won’t
give you me number now, erm’, ‘well I’m coming up to Trafford Park
next week’ EOS ‘erm, will you have sex’ ‘with me in me cab’ EOS oh my
God EOS ‘I thought you were gonna ask me for a coffee EOS come on
Sonia **anon**, you’re ninety-three **anon** honestly EOS is that what
they said? yeah, honestly, I just went I’ll block that one off, so I-
I’ve decided to knock that one on the head cos EOS no, seriously,
totally, I mean- and, erm, you know, they want to know if you’ve got a
webcam, and will you do this for them, and will you do that for them
EOS oh no, no, no, no EOS and again, just go to the frigging place in
Manchester where the girls get paid for a living you know EOS th-
there are places where you can go, ‘will you shag me in me cab in
Trafford Park?’ I don’t think so EOS I’ll need a- I’ll need a curry
and a bottle of wine before EOS I need a four p- I- I need a four-
poster at least EOS oh God, that- I’d a died if that- I’d a been,
‘ooh, ooh, ooh’ EOS **anon** come and sort this out for me EOS I’m
sure you could’ve thought of some very choice words EOS I probably
would’ve done yeah EOS I’d’ve probably got barred off the internet for
using bad language EOS a big red flashing thing you know EOS you can’t
say that on this- on this site EOS site, I know, ah no oh I’ve never
come across anything- I’ve never been- I never get into anything- I
never get far enough into it to even have a conversation with normal
people never mind EOS find a site like that, so I’ve ne- l- like I say
I’ve tried a few times, and never got on properly at anytime EOS
anytime at all so I just- I just sack it now, in fact, I went on me
emails the other day and there was about- I had fifty nine messages,
and I bet twenty of them was from them saying they’ve found a perfect
partner EOS off different things that I’ve tried to get on EOS but,
they’ve got me name and email address so they just send me all these
things and I s- I think EOS it’s no use having him there, I’m here, I
don’t know how to get to EOS so I just leave it, just sack it EOS
what, would you go for a coffee in Manchester? erm, no way but it’s
erm, it is it is crazy, and I say to **anon**, ‘why don’t you get
on?’, cos I want her to keep up with her email and keep in touch with
her friends EOS and she goes, ‘I’m on a bleeding computer all day, I’m
not getting on it again’ and she won’t EOS sh- you know, it- in fact
she lost her email address because it had been that long EOS since
she’s been on it, and the- after a while, I didn’t realise, our
**anon** says, ‘oh yeah, if you’ve not used your email address for a
long time they squash it and you have to start up again’ EOS ooh I
didn’t know that EOS she says, cos it happened to her so I said, ‘oh
right’, so erm, w- she had to set up a- well I did it for her, I sound
dead clever now EOS I did it for her, I sorted it out, and got her
back on but erm, she still doesn’t go on it much, and I mean it would
benefit her EOS with her being deaf EOS I mean she only texts anyway
when she uses her phone, what a performance I’ve had with that she
went to erm, Salford to get a new phone and I could see people looking
at us, and some of them tittering, she says, ‘but I need a phone’ she
says, ‘that has got a good vibrator on it’ EOS and we’re in the middle
on this shop and I’m thinking, ‘oh God’, she says, ‘because the last
phone I got’ she says, ‘the vibration was no good, I couldn’t feel it’
she says, erm, ‘and I was missing all me EOS so I’m there saying,
‘look, she’s deaf, she needs a phone with a decent vibration on it so
that when it’s in her back pocket she can EOS I says, ‘the other phone
that she got she ended up swapping because it was no good to her, she
was missing everything’ ‘right, okay’, and she wanted one with a good
camera on it, and we were going EOS wouldn’t you think though, that,
you know, compa- phone companies w- would make phones specifically for
deaf people EOS I know well that’s- as a communication device I mean
EOS that’s- that’s one thing that they are lacking in EOS because, she
has- sh- when we go, we don’t go for a new phone and we’re in and out
in a- in an hour EOS we can be in there two or three hours EOS because
she’s there and they’re putting- they ringing all these phones and
she’s holding them trying to say EOS ‘no, that’s no good, that’s no
good’, you know, and I think- and I don’t- the worst thing is, she
takes me with her, and I don’t know the EOS about phones so I’m
neither use nor ornament EOS so she gets this phone home it was spent
more time at home than it did with her because the battery was going
flat all the time, she was charging it up every other day and what
else, there was a f- there was about three things wrong with it so we
checked the agreement and it says you can change it- you can cancel it
within seven days, so she said, ‘right’, so she types this letter out
at work stops off at Salford, she says, ‘right, I don’t want this
anymore’ ‘cancelling me contract’ they said, ‘you can’t do this- that’
she says, ‘yeah, oh yes I can’, ‘oh, you’ve got to do it in writing’,
she goes, ‘there it is, copy for you, copy for me’, ‘no you’ve got to
send it to ‘ead o- head office’ and all this that and the other so she
had a big row with them she- she left the phone on the desk, they
says, ‘no, no, you can’t leave it here’, she says, ‘yes, I can I’m
leaving it, I’m cancelling everything’, and she went out the shop
shouting, ‘you’re all mad if you get a phone from here’ EOS I can just
see her doing that and all EOS I know, she’s dead erm, she’s dead
bolshy isn’t she EOS I thought, I’m glad I wasn’t with her, but
anyway, they’ve sent her a letter back saying, yes, she can cancel the
contract, but she’s got to pick the phone up, and she’s gotta ring
them and then they’ve got to arrange to pick it up and all this that
and the other, I thought EOS why not just give it back to the shop EOS
and leave it at that, so that’s what- but I bet- did she pick it up
from the shop? she went in the shop and got it from the shop, so why
not just take it back to the shop EOS so, but that’s what she’s got to
do, so that’s what I’ll have to do later on, erm, go and see my mate
down there, **anon** EOS she’s got one now EOS has she? That’s a
good’n? well, I- don’t ask me, it’s- it’s got all little things on it
that she likes, it’s a touch phone, an iphone it is EOS oooh, has she
got an iphone? yeah, she’s got an iphone, so she’s quite happy with
that EOS me Mum wants one of them EOS erm, and it’s- sh- it’s not the
latest one, she says, ‘I don’t want the latest one Mam, because, it’s
only just come out and then they’ll find out all the problems and
this, that and the other EOS she says, ‘so I’ll wait a- a bit and then
I might in two years I’ll update it again’ EOS she says, ‘but I’m
happy with this one now and it does this and it does-’ oh, she spends
hours messing about, but, in saying about the- that’s got it in, so
she gets her emails through that anyway EOS so- cos she’s been saying
to me, ‘ooh, I got a birthday card off **anon** and erm, I’ve got,
erm, one off-’ who er- can’t remember who else, but she got birthday
cards sent to her over the erm EOS erm, internet on her facebook and
that EOS so she was quite chuffed about that so, she’s erm, yeah
she’s- she makes me laugh though s- but them- them iphones, I mean,
you know that phone, that flip phone, I bought me and me Mum one and
it must be five years ago EOS cause I think it was the Christmas of-
that I bought it her and she’s had it five years, well sh- she’s since
the contract’s run out, she’s got- put it on pay as you go but she’s
got this new mega deal something through Virgin or whatever for her
phone, so what she wants to do is unlock this phone that I got her
five years ago erm so that she can have it on this Virgin, but six
months ago she was moaning and moaning and moaning she wanted an
iphone, I’m saying, ‘Mam, you can’t even bleeding text, what do you
want an iphone for?’ she’s like, ‘well **anon** such-and-such-a-
body’s got one, and we were in a restaurant and I- and me and your
Dad, we were chatting away, and we said, erm, yeah, oh yes, we still
live in Salford, and I told her me address, and I’m not kidding you,
she turned her phone round, and there was our front door, on her
phone- on her phone- I- my front door was on her phone’ and I went,
‘yeah, well it’ll be an iphone, and they’ve got satellite navigation
and all that’, ‘well, I want one’ EOS I said, ‘but you still don’t
know how to text’ EOS to text, yeah EOS that’s it, th- th- they are
good, if you’re into gadgets EOS but I’m not into gadgets, I can’t-
one- I think they’ve gotta be something that you’re gonna use isn’t it
EOS me eyes are bad, and, even my phone I’ve got now EOS I’m like
this, and I’m putting two pairs of glasses on reading it, so to start
messing about and trying to learn EOS how to do this, that and the
other on a phone, that- I’m gonna struggle to see anyway EOS it
doesn’t seem worth it to me, as long as I can text and phone, that’s
all I’m bothered about EOS I mean I can’t even use the camera properly
on this or- or the, erm, I c- I- it’s- you can change the length of
time EOS I still can’t do it I take a picture, it’s funny, I take a
picture like that, and I press the button and I go like that to look
at it, and then it’ll go ‘click’ EOS but I’ve moved- it’s like a
delayed thing on it EOS and I don’t know how to get it off EOS so I
can’t even take a proper picture when I want to, it ends up something
else cos I’ve moved the- did you get a disc with it? probably, but I
never use that either I never- I never put them in to see- I- all- all
I’m saying is, I mean I’m- I’m no techy at all, but, whenever I’ve got
anything, like I’ve got a camera, or satnav or, you get a disc with
it, and then, when you’ve got the time, and, you know me, I never- I
never even look at a recipe I just think I can cook, throw it all in
together, but I- I’ll be thinking to meself, ‘ooh, I don’t know how to
use that video bit on me camera’ EOS but all I’ll do is either go on
the computer or go on the little pamphlet, and they’re dead easy to
use nowadays EOS it’s just having the patience to sit down EOS and-
and actually read through it EOS and actu- read through it, yeah EOS
cause they are easy, you know, everything’s like user friendly these
days, they’re not like they used to be, cos I- you know, manuals used
to be unless you had a degree EOS you couldn’t bloody read it, under-
I know EOS never mind understand what was on them EOS I g- I always
go, ‘what does that mean?’ , ‘what’s that word there, what does it
mean?’ EOS oh God, but that’s it, it takes me that long to read summet
I’ve got fed up with it EOS but I think you get frightened of things,
and I think you’re just- you have like a- a mental blinker EOS and you
think, ‘I’m just ne- I’m not gonna be able to use that’ erm, because
me Dad’s not got a mobile phone, and me Mum’s been saying, ‘well, you
know, when I get me iphone, your Dad can have my- my old one’ erm, and
I say, ‘well I’ll be able to teach him how to use it’ cos I am good at
showing people what EOS you know, how to use thing- things, but you
know, I think sometimes you just get mental block where you think,
‘I’m never gonna be able to do it’, so you’re preventing yourself
from- from- from EOS erm, in a way EOS I know, I m- that is- that is
true, it’s like me, I was scared of the laptop, I was scared to death
breaking it EOS right, pressing the wrong thing? yeah, and, I think
that came from when I was working and I was ill and I was in the
office this time and they said, ‘oh, just put these facts and figures
in’ I says, ‘oh I don’t know anything’, ‘oh, we’ll show you’, ‘I- I’m
scared of losing the data’, ‘you can’t lose the data’, fine, fair
enough, and they showed me how to do this, and I was doing it for
weeks, and then I got cocky, starting- trying to play about with it
EOS and the next minute it all went off and I says, ‘ooh, there’s
summet- ooh’ I says, ‘you said I can’t lose this data didn’t you’,
‘yeah’, ‘oh, well, come and sort it out then, cos it’s all gone black’
and the next minute he goes, ‘I don’t believe it Harriet **anon**
you’ve lost EOS I says, ‘you told me I couldn’t do that’ I says, ‘so
it’s your fault, it’s not mine’ EOS there’s o- there’s only one person
who could’ve lost the data and it EOS yeah, it was, and the thing was
I was dead worried but, because he’d said, ‘oh no, you’re alright, it-
you can’t lose it’ EOS I got cocky and I thought, ‘ooh, well I can’t
do any damage’, so you start messing round- and he’d says to me EOS
‘just have a go, keep playing with it and learning, and you’ll become
more confident’, so I did EOS and then I lost everything EOS and he
said, ‘no, just keep to what you was doing before, just put the data
in’, ‘right’ but, that’s why when I got mine it was, you know,
viruses, all I heard about was virus- say I put a virus in it, I don’t
know how you- I could put a virus in it but and so it was touching the
odd key like that, ‘ooh what’s happened, what-’ and that’s all you got
out of me for the first month, ‘ooh, what’s happened, what’ve I done,
what’ve I done’ but you need to learn what the keys do and what they
don’t do EOS course you do, yeah EOS and that was my problem, our
**anon** was saying to me ages ago, he’s texting me, you know, when
he- and he- he’s on facebook and he’s- leaving me a message and- and
the name pops up, and then you type in there and I thought EOS ‘ooh
right’, so I typed some- he says, ‘just type in at the bottom’ so I
just typed in at the bottom and then I thought, ‘right, now what do I
do with it?’ and, I clicked on it and it went off, and I did this,
that and in the end I went a- the long way round EOS to text him what
I’d just wrote in that square cos I couldn’t send it to him, I didn’t
know how to send it EOS and then, who was it **anon**, granddaughter,
just press the return key EOS yeah, ‘you press that Nanna’ ‘right,
okay’, but I was coming out of that EOS getting his name up and going
the long way round because I didn’t know how to send EOS in that, it-
and, it- unless you know what all the keys do EOS and that’s e-
exactly right y- you know, a- and everybody, everybody, ah kid, is
exactly the same, you know, when you first look at computer, unless
you’ve been shown what to do, how are you supposed to EOS yeah, the
best of it is I went to erm, the erm, oh what’s it EOS in Eccles and
they were doing computer courses for free EOS and if you went regular
and you passed through the course, they’d give you a computer, wh- you
know EOS and you could keep it for so long and then pay fifty pound
for it, something like that EOS I thought, ‘ooh, I’ll get a computer’
and, I was going there learning and I h- I had a file and me discs and
everything and I started to learn a bit EOS but then I think she was
off ill and I’d gone all the way to Eccles a couple of weeks, and
nobody had bothered ringing me and kept saying, ‘ooh, she’s not here
this week, she’s not come in’, ‘oh, she’s not’ and in the end I just
sacked it EOS otherwise- but thinking about it, I only found all that
information in the disc when was it, was it yesterday or the day
before when I was looking for something for **anon** EOS so I might
get that out and put it in and start EOS trying to learn a bit more
EOS but like I say, I’m sure it has the keyboard EOS you see, it’s-
it- on it EOS it’s amazing though I mean how quickly things change, I
mean I remember doing erm, a computer course it’s not ten years ago,
at night school, erm, cos you know our- our **anon** did computers at-
at college and that, and I thought, ‘we’ve got a bloody big computer
in there and you know, when I’m on me day off it’s sat there doing
nothing, I may as well learn how to use it’ EOS so I went on a
computer course and one of the first things they showed me how to do,
erm, was put something on a floppy disc, we don’t use floppy discs
anymore, who uses floppy discs now EOS what’s a floppy disc? it’s a
small disc EOS like erm- like a CD? I thought they- I thought EOS no,
no, no, no, no, it’s not, what am I talking about, it- they used to be
like in a square EOS that’s what I’ve got EOS yeah, but nobody uses
them these days EOS you know from my computer course, that’s what it
is EOS they use them little I’ve got one, dongle thingies, it’s not a
EOS you put it in the side of the computer and you save it on to- on
to EOS a memory stick, yeah, that’s it, that’s what they’re called EOS
but that- that wasn’t ten years ago, and yet things have changed EOS
that’s what I’m saying, the technology nowadays is changing that fast
EOS people who are a bit slow, it’s very hard EOS to catch up EOS do
you know what I mean? I- probably, I’ll get dead good, on the computer
and the laptop, and then they’ll go and change it to something else
and I’ll have to start from scratch, and it’s I- you give up in the
end, I- I do EOS I think the- the- I think the- there’ll always be a
qwerty keyboard, there’ll always be a qwerty keyboard, on what- on
whatever technology that you’re gonna use, cos that’s our form of
communication in the EOS eh well, we’ll see EOS so you’ll be right EOS
yeah, like I say, I’m gonna keep trying and erm, so that floppy EOS
what makes me laugh, is why do they call it floppy cos it’s as stiff
as a board EOS why if- if- if I’ve got one of them would I be able to
put it in my computer, it is a computer, it’s not a- a laptop EOS
right, cos I might have a go at that EOS and erm, try and learn a bit
more we even went, me and our **anon**, he says erm, ‘oh, there’s a
computer course starting’ so being, he says, ‘right’ I says, ‘I’ll
come with you’ he asks me, I says ‘yeah, okay, I’ll come with you’,
and it was in **anon** EOS so I got us on, we went down we was- th-
there was only me and him there and the tutor and, we did this course,
then the week after, it was really bad storms, I think it was advised,
if you didn’t have to go out, don’t go out EOS so I says, ‘we’re not
going **anon**, I’m not going in this, it’s really too bad, and I
don’t want you driving up here’, ‘right, okay’, so the week after
that, we went again, ‘oh, they’ve cancelled it’, you know, ‘not enough
people turned up’ EOS I didn’t even do that, cos a lot of people now
have- are learning off EOS because the kids are doing it in school now
EOS the kids are showing the parents how to use a computer EOS well I
know our **anon** erm, give me a disc, ooh, I’m ashamed to say, God
knows where it is, but I think it- think it was called ECDL, but that
was literally, you taught yourself how to use a computer from the CD,
you just loaded the CD, and then it, you know, talked you how to go
through what to do, and I thought, ‘ooh, how fantastic’, but, they’re
something like seventy pound I think EOS she got it because of- she
got it through work, erm, so they wanna be giving them- them out in
erm, these lessons and say like, well do this in- in lesson and then
EOS well, you’ll have to find that EOS cause that might do me EOS that
might help me EOS yeah, and it’s not so much- I mean I’m pretty
computer literate but sometimes it’s the language they use EOS you
know, that EOS that is confusing cos they just think, ‘upload’, ‘upl-
what does up- upload mean? Yeah, I’m like that EOS cause I- I d- I
don’t know how to- you can put things on a disc can’t you? you know,
if you wanted erm, say a song EOS and you put a disc in and you could
b- rip and burn, you can do that, or, any information you can put on a
disc, I can’t do things like that, I don’t know h- I’ve got the
facility EOS yeah, within your computer EOS but, I don’t know how to
do it EOS and that’s something I would like to do, cos I’d like to be
able to EOS and you know, even, you know, different things EOS I’d
love to be able to do that EOS but I don’t know how to do that EOS
right, you see that’s dead, dead easy, I’d be able to show you that
EOS erm, but I tell you on- one good tip, that somebody told me years
ago, erm, on a computer is, you know all you get- get a question mark,
wherever you are, there’s that, either question mark or a help EOS
just click on that if y- if you’re stuck on it and somewhere it’ll
explain how to do what you want to do, cos what I tend to do is I
always have a- like a pad at the side of the computer and then,
whatever it tells me to do, I’ll write it down, and some of the things
are so easy, it’s like, ‘click on start, click on programs, click on
this, click on that, click on that, click on that, right, change that
to a ‘no’, you’re sorted’ EOS what it is- and I’ll never remember it,
like EOS the following day, once I’ve slept, that’s it, but once it’s
written down, it’s written out, ‘start, de, programs, blah, blah,
blah’ EOS yeah, but what it is, because it’s a computer, and it’s a
complicated piece of equipment, you look at it, and you go, ‘ooh, I
don’t know how to do this’, ‘ooh, I can I-’ because you think it’s
gonna be EOS and then when someone shows you, you go, ‘oh, is that it’
and EOS you’re dead surprised EOS it’s so simple EOS but, because
you’re looking at this equipment and you’re thinking, ‘it must be
complicated’ EOS like you say, you’re mind goes blank, it’s like a
mental block EOS and you don’t see the simple little things that come
up that say, ‘just press here’, or ‘just do thi-’ EOS y- it- you don’t
see it, it’s like a mental blindness cos y- you EOS you don’t see it
EOS you do, you get blinkered, what I- what I used- when I was
training, what I used to do with anyone in- in my office was say,
right, there’s your pad, and I mean them days we used to call them an
idiot guide, you’re not allowed to do that anymore, erm, but, say for
example it was like, you know, rip and burn, like, ‘click on that,
click on that, click on that, click on that’ right, now write it down,
in those short phrases, not, ‘put your disc in this’, just ‘click,
click, click, click’ like a- a small, short, a reminder, erm, and
that’s it, right, you put that away, don’t look at it, right, now
you’ve not done rip and burning for six months, right, get your idiot
guide, get it out, ‘oh yeah’, click, click, click, click, click,
click, click, and it’s easy then EOS it becomes dead easy, and y’kn-
y- th- it- it takes away the fear, because it’ll be something, you
know, it- and I don’t care who you are, however brainy you are that
you’ll- you’ll just forget EOS what do I go into for that EOS to for
that, yeah EOS erm, and it- it’s just there for you EOS yeah I’ll have
to get stuck in me and erm, try a bit harder, get to know everything
properly EOS right how are we doing? I think that’s alright that, yep,
I was just letting you finish off, good, cos I’m bursting for a pee
EOS right one sec, get this going again, can you just talk for me EOS
oh hang on one, two, three EOS yeah, that’s fine, okay, whenever you’re ready,
thank you EOS right, we’re okay, oh, what was your best- what was your
best or funniest memory when you were young? I don’t know, erm, go on,
if you can think of anything you go first EOS I wouldn’t- I- I
wouldn’t exactly call it the best or funniest but it w- an incident
that’s always stuck into my mind, I wasn’t a- I wasn’t a lover of
dolls, but me Mother’d dressed this doll up for Christmas, and it was
all in green georgette, I’ve never forgotten that EOS and I’d gone out
shopping with me Mother, we lived up near Hope hospital then and I’d
gone out with her, to Eccles, and when I came back, the doll was on
the settee, leant up against a- a cushion, and me two older brothers
were there, I hadn’t got the younger one then, and erm, they’d scooted
out of the house you see when we came home and when I picked the doll
up, and, they’d gagged it EOS and I took the gag off and when I took
the gag off the face was split EOS oh, well, as I say, I didn’t care
for dolls at all when I was young EOS I still don’t, they’ve got to be
very pretty dolls for me to EOS so of course I was- I was a mardy so I
started EOS crying then, you know EOS so they were in trouble when me
Dad came home from work cos that was something- I treasured it because
they didn’t have a lot of money, you know, when we were children EOS
that’s your thing EOS that’s my thought about my two brothers EOS you
alright love? I think- I think erm, I think mine is erm, going on erm,
going on holiday, erm, to Fleetwood, Knot End EOS erm, paddling in the
paddling pool at Knot End I think that’s- that’s one of my earliest
memories when I was EOS **anon** gone out EOS only- when I was only
little EOS you know, but that was a great adventure to go to EOS to
Knot End EOS and to go on holiday EOS yeah, go on holiday, yeah EOS we
used to go to Fleetwood EOS oh, well I went to Fleetwood EOS as well
cos I had relatives that lived there so EOS that was erm, that was
good EOS me Mother always said, ‘when I get some money, and I retire,
I will come and live at Fleetwood’ EOS oh right, she never did EOS
which she never did EOS she never- she never had enough money to buy a
house there EOS no, I don’t know- I don’t know how we- we did it
because me Dad was out of work for ten years EOS yes, my Dad was EOS
when I was- when I was born, you know and erm EOS so erm, there was no
money coming in cos you were means tested then EOS and- that’s going
off the subject that isn’t it EOS it is yes, really EOS see, we can
talk EOS yeah, yeah, well, yes, we can EOS yeah erm, were there lots
of kids to play with when you were growing up? No not, no, I didn’t-
no I didn’t have- yes I did, cause I lived in Salford then, you know,
in a terraced house, so there was plenty of children around EOS no,
well I lived in Wythenshawe, I was born in Wythenshawe EOS and erm,
lived there all me life ‘til getting married but there weren’t-
weren’t very many children EOS oh wasn’t there, no? no, no, not at
all, no. Did you have to help out around the house? No no, not at all,
I had an- no, no, not until- what did you do in your free time? I was
way, oh, I musta been in my twenties before I started doing any EOS
what did you and your family do in free time when you’re growing up? I
were mainly involved with church work, boys- girls brigade and- and
the choir, and Sunday school, and- I was in the Brownies EOS that was-
were you? and then in me teens I was in the girls training corps EOS
oh were you EOS and I played a trumpet EOS I couldn’t sing so I played
the trumpet EOS here you are, what games did you play as a kid? erm,
rally vino, erm, oh I’d a- I’d a- a scooter, you know EOS oh, I had a
bike but it was EOS oh I, yes, I had a bike that was second hand EOS
first time on it I went down the kerb and fell off it EOS oh well,
that wasn’t very clever EOS didn’t have any brothers and sisters EOS I
had three brothers erm, one four year older than me, one two year
older, and one eight year younger than me EOS who was always called,
‘our youngster’ EOS can you remember a good story that your par-
grandparents used tell you oh, I don’t know about that, erm, oh EOS
well me Grandma remem- I remember her telling me that me Grandfather
who I didn’t know, erm, was carrying erm, a bo- a coffin downstairs,
and suddenly a noise came from the coffin EOS and they were frightened
to death but it- it’s obviously th- the body wind comes out when it’s-
that’s right yes EOS and me Grandma used to laugh her head off about
it, she said, ‘you’re Granddad was worried to death about it’ EOS did
you ever get hurt- oh yeah- one- o- one story- yeah, erm, yeah, when
erm when th- do you remember when Manchester was bombed EOS yes I do
mm EOS well that night of that raid, erm, it was, I think it was a
Saturday because we were going to church the following morning, and
church was in Moss Side EOS and of course that’d got badly hit, and
when I got to Sunday school, the Sunday school t- our- my Sunday
school teacher, **anon** wasn’t there and nobody knew where she was
and erm, there was a search went out for her, and her house had been
bombed EOS and they found her, in her bed, three streets away EOS th-
st- away EOS in the loft of another house EOS oh I know that- that
happened in Salford with somebody but EOS and I can- I can remember
that EOS they- they were found on the ground you know, yeah, that was
near the town hall in Salford EOS oh right, right EOS did you get hurt
whilst playing when you were a kid? oh yes, many a time EOS yeah, but
a- but not- not badly- not badly hurt, I was never badly- I had a lot
of illnesses and erm, spent a lot of time off school erm, so
consequently when me Mother took me back, unfortunately the teacher we
had didn’t think there was any point in teaching me cos I’d missed too
much school EOS and so I could sit at the back of the class, and what
I took in, I took in, and what I didn’t, I didn’t, so she wasn’t
interested in EOS I- I was climbing EOS on the back- in the yard at
home EOS up the back door, to the- that goes out into the entry, and
it had slats across like that, thick ones you know, I’d climbed up and
then I slipped down, I cut me knee open, so of course, I had to go up
to EOS and erm, I was going backwards and forwards for six months with
that EOS yes, it was stitched, but the stitches broke EOS and of
course, you know, those days it was EOS and erm, so I- that was one of
my accidents EOS I was very good at falling, even then Kristina
**anon** EOS no I just had all the ailments, measles, chicken pox,
whooping cough, all the- all the lot I had one after the other EOS oh-
oh I didn’t, I just- I had measles EOS I had German measles when I
was- when I had **anon** EOS oh I had German meas- I remember the
doctor coming and saying, ‘why couldn’t you’ve had English measles,
cos we’re fighting the Germans’ EOS what kind of games did you play-
Do you want outdoor games there? oh well s- we have said some, haven’t
we, oh yes that was another EOS remember playing marbles and- I do
remember, I took me brother’s marble bag out ooh, and I couldn’t play
marbles EOS oh right, so did you loss them EOS so of course, I- I lost
them EOS you lost them, oh dear EOS oh, my word EOS he was me
favourite brother, and erm, he wasn’t me favourite after that day, not
for a few days, no EOS no, no, I bet, no EOS no, I bet he wasn’t your-
you weren’t his favourite either EOS I wasn’t his favourite girl, no
EOS no erm, right, what’s the next one EOS where did you go to school?
I went to school in **anon**, that’s where I was born, school was only
round the corner, I went from being five, to being fifteen, I never
passed any exams, so I was just at the same school, just went from one
end of the field, to the other EOS to the other end of the field,
infants and juniors and seniors, that- that was me, until I left at
fifteen EOS and I went to one called **anon** in **anon**, Salford,
then we moved up to near **anon**, and it was **anon** EOS it was down
a dirt path, and erm, from there, we went back to **anon** and I went
to **anon**, then I passed the scholarship, clever so-and-so EOS erm,
and went to **anon**, and that had to close down because of the EOS so
erm, and then they opened a brand, new school, **anon** it was EOS and
I finished up me schooling there EOS I didn’t enjoy school, as you can
guess with missing out so much, so my school days were not
particularly happy days at all EOS oh I enjoyed school EOS mm, and I
don’t remember me first day at school at all EOS but me Dad always
used to say, ‘you’ll be sorry when you leave you EOS and I was never
sorry when I left EOS no, I wasn’t either, no EOS ooh, what do you
remember from your f- and then funnily enough I went into another
school, nursing schools, so you were schooling all your life really
EOS so I was at school again yeah EOS what do you remember from your
first day at school? were you ever blamed for something that wasn’t
your fault? well I was only three when I went EOS and the story goes
that, I was missing one day and me- me Mother was- went looking for me
and erm, I was found in the school playground where me brother was
going to, and I did it a couple of times and so in the end he said,
‘oh, you can leave her’ EOS so that’s how I started my school, at
three EOS oh, at three EOS oh right what were your summer holidays
like? Well summer EOS as I say were, during the war and that it was
very difficult really wasn’t it EOS so I don’t know my- how my parents
managed to take me on holiday but we- we always went as I say, usually
Clevelees, Fleetwood, round there stay with erm, a relative did get as
far as Torquay once EOS well we used to go to Fleetwood, and we always
stayed in a boarding house where you- you did your own catering EOS
that’s right, yeah, yeah EOS it’s cheaper that way you see and the-
remember Mum used to send a trunk on, in advance EOS did she, yes EOS
yeah and then take erm, provisions with us EOS yeah, oh yes, you took
provisions EOS and then you went out and shopped for your bacon and
stuff like that, mm, went to Wales, did remember going to Wales to
Capel Curig in W- during the war, and we stayed with this erm, lady, I
think it was a farm, because we couldn’t believe the meals we were
getting EOS there were joints of meat EOS oh gosh, yeah EOS and sides
of bacon and EOS all the things that we didn’t get EOS at home, you
know, it was erm, absolutely wonderful for a week, so I don’t know how
we managed that, I’ve no idea about that one erm, activities at
school? No, the only thing I did at school was music, I didn’t mind
that cos that was the only thing I was interested in, no sports at
all, or drama EOS well I’ve d- when we went back to, erm, **anon**
after the blitz, we did a lotta sport, we used to go into **anon** EOS
oh yeah, yeah EOS and erm, or **anon**, which was next door and we
used to play Netball and Basketball and all sorts, you know EOS oh
right, yeah EOS I was good at that, the lads always chose me to be on
their team EOS I remember **anon** saying about **anon** because he
was born in erm, in Salford, yeah EOS yeah he went to school in
Salford EOS well we just lived across the river from there EOS oh did
you EOS he went to erm EOS ooh, I can’t remember its name now no,
can’t remember its name, can remember he went to **anon** church EOS
oh so- so he was a catholic then EOS well his- his- his Dad was EOS
cause his Dad was **anon**, he took the name **anon** EOS for his
confirmation you know EOS so he- it depends which side of Salford he
lived in EOS if he went to **anon** because EOS erm cos it’s the
nearest- I know that- I know they lived for a part on **anon** EOS oh
that was Weast EOS Weast and then he lived somewhere else as well, cos
his Mum had a EOS but I can’t remember where that was, it was an off
license and EOS but erm I can’t remember- I can’t remember me teachers
can’t remember their names no EOS describe your favourite teacher,
well, that was me- that was me music teacher erm EOS well I think my
favourite EOS was me French teacher EOS oh right, oh we didn’t do
languages EOS she was a, quite a bonny lady, you know, but I liked her
EOS very much and me favourite teacher, well, erm, me least favourite
teacher, I remember her quite well EOS she w- I’ve- I’ve- I’ve not got
to mention the name have I EOS it- no you don’t have to no EOS you can
do EOS I shouldn’t think she’ll be alive now EOS no, she wouldn’t be
well, her name was **anon** actually EOS but she was, no she wasn’t my
favourite teacher at all EOS oh yeah, yeah, well that was a bit like
the one EOS how about you? who decided I wasn’t worth teaching EOS so,
and I can’t remember her name, no way EOS did you ever get into
trouble for something at school? Yes EOS talking too much in class EOS
and were you ever blamed for something that wasn’t your fault? Yes I
EOS yes, well, me Dad had bought me a- a fountain pen and I- it went
missing, you know, and we were- the teacher had gone out of the class
and we were doing out work and then suddenly, this girl near me took
out my fountain pen EOS and just as the teacher walked back in, mouthy
**anon** shouted, ‘that’s my pen’ EOS so of course sh- she called me
out, and it w- the teacher that- that lesson used to teach me Dad and
erm, his sisters when they were young, ‘**anon**’ of course, that was
me maiden name, erm, ‘what’s the problem’ and, she said, ‘you’re
starting again’, I said, ‘no, th- that was my- that’s my pen that me
Dad bought me’ so you see, and she was blaming me for the- causing the
trouble EOS anyway, she apologised afterwards and I was allowed to go
and clean the cupboard out and I didn’t know whether that was an
honour or not, or a punishment, you know, cos I wasn’t- I didn’t do
cleaning EOS I do now but I didn’t then EOS but erm, but you see i-
if- if any- if I did something wrong EOS she used to say ‘hm, just
like your Father’ EOS and when I went to infant school there was a
teacher there that knew me Dad, phew, ‘typical of **anon** daughter’
used to say, you know EOS was he naughty then? y- yeah he must’ve
been, he must’ve been EOS he must’ve been, mustn’t he EOS right, where
are your parents from EOS well, my paren- my Mother was from
Manchester, she was from erm, an area in Moss Side, and my Father my
Father was born, erm, in Liverpool EOS my parents were, Mother was
well I don’t really know where she was born to be honest because her
par- her Mother died when she was three erm, so I don’t really know a
lot, but she went to live in erm, Manchester, with erm, some Uncles
and Aunts so, but the rest of her life she lived in Salford EOS until
she died mm EOS erm, how has your community changed in recent- well I
don’t know about the community in Wythenshawe, I think that’s erm,
that’s changed quite a bit unfortunately it got a bad reputation but
erm, when my parents went- moved from Moss Side to Wythenshawe they
were asked, would they like to go and live in the ga- the new garden
EOS new garden city EOS which was Wythenshawe and they erm, they moved
to there, and there erm, house, and did they want the one with the
kitchen on the front or did- and the living room, or did they want the
one with a front parlour and a living room- and two separate rooms EOS
yeah one was erm, the one with the kitchen on the front was ten
shillings a week, and the other one was ten and six, so they had to
have the ten shilling one EOS ten shilling one EOS because me Dad was
out of work EOS of work, that’s right EOS yeah, yeah and they- they
spent all the- all their life and I did, right until I married EOS
well I the last house me Mum and Dad were in erm, that was rented of
course, I got married from there, and then I got a house exactly the
same in the next street EOS oh did you EOS two years after I got
married, yes EOS what’s taken places in your town? Ooh, I don’t know
EOS oh gosh, that’s- Manchester’s changed a lot hasn’t it really EOS
it has, and Salford has EOS and Salford has hasn’t it EOS I mean erm,
now then we had- somebody was correcting me the other day, I said
about Salford docks, al- well it was always known as Manchester docks,
I said it was still in EOS it was Salford docks EOS it was on our side
of the river EOS that’s right, yeah EOS and the canal EOS yeah,
Salford docks, there was a pub on- there was supposed to be a pub on
every corner and you could- you could never complete it could you EOS
that- if you were a drinker, yeah, yeah EOS you could never complete
the- the circuit could you EOS yeah, that was a- that was on EOS erm,
Trafford Road EOS yeah, I remem- I remember that erm- I didn’t drink
so EOS I didn’t- I didn’t try any of them EOS we didn’t but I EOS just
remember that saying, you know, that erm- yes, you couldn’t pass a
corner without a pub EOS that’s right, yeah, yeah, erm, it’s nice to
see that they’ve left the two cranes really, part of the heritage at
erm, Salford docks, don’t EOS you know, cos I mean, most of it’s gone
now hasn’t it? yes, oh yes, I always say when I go to The Lowry in
Salford EOS me Dad was erm, he had to go on work of national
importance in the war because he was too old for the forces and he was
meant to- was sent as a docker EOS and the difference in his- his
dress when he- he was a docker and when he was a- in his- his own job,
you know EOS it’s unbelievable, and like, we always say, ‘ooh, he’d
turn over in his grave if he could see these docks now’ you know EOS
yeah, yeah, yeah, **anon** was amazed to see EOS you know, he did live
to see all that erm, that change, you know, and EOS he was quite
pleased with how they’d- they’d changed it and- it is- I mean that is
a- something- a bonus to Salford that EOS it is really, isn’t it EOS
and The Lowry EOS The Lowry, yeah EOS and the way they’ve cleaned up
the canal and EOS everywhere round there, Manchester, I think
Manchester’s EOS I don’t think that’s done any the better- for the
better EOS no, I don’t, I think Manchester’s gone down- I mean they
are saying that since the IRA bomb EOS it’s improved it, but I don’t
think it has EOS I don’t think so, no, no EOS Piccadilly gardens, it
used to be lovely EOS oh, that used to be gorgeous, yes EOS we used to
spend hours there in the garden EOS now it’s just a EOS mess and a
down-and-out’s place really isn’t it EOS I don’t- I don’t think
Manchester’s got a lot to shout about at the EOS no but erm- what
local events, news, history do you think is important people EOS well
I mean I don’t think EOS I mean there’s lots EOS I don’t think they
should forget the war EOS erm, I think the youngsters want- when I say
something to my children now they say, ‘you should write a book Mum’
you know EOS because of these incidents during the war, you know EOS
incidents and events, yeah, yeah, there was a lot went on really EOS
and there’s a lotta well known people EOS came from Salf- cam from
Salford and Manchester didn’t they EOS yes, they did EOS I don’t think
they’re remembered as they erm, as they should be EOS but erm, and the
whit walks and things like that, you know, I mean, oh yes, yes, and-
me Mother was, erm, if there was anything happening in Salford, like I
always remember when the Bish- the- one of the Bishop’s died EOS the
Catholic Bishop’s died, and erm, of course we had to go to St- erm,
Salford Cathedral EOS we only stood outside the church, and there was
meself and me brother that’s two year older than me, and he was a very
good-looking child, you know and erm, somebody turned round and said
to me Mother, ‘ooh, hasn’t he got a saintly face’ EOS he wasn’t a
saintly child mind you EOS of course, when me Mother got home she said
to me Father, ‘somebody say hasn’t, erm, **anon** got a saintly face’
so for ever- ever after that, me Dad always just say, ‘where’s the
saintly one’ EOS he was known as the saintly one EOS the saintly one
EOS yes, ‘til me Dad died, yes, and erm- did you move house at all
when you were younger? No, we never moved house at all, so, oh I did,
I’ve just told you all about that haven’t I, sorry about that love EOS
no, it’s alright EOS didn’t know about that EOS what fun things are
there to do in your community? What, this community here we’re in, now
EOS well, there’s quite a lot we’re erm, always going on about EOS
well I- I do go to erm, **anon** sports centre on a Wednesday to play
table tennis, I’ve done that for years, not that- I play at playing
it, that’s the truth but EOS that one about- did you move house, what
memories do you have? We- well, when we went to live, erm, near Hope
Hospital we were- it was new property, and me Grandma had won the
Irish sweepstake, so she bought two houses EOS we moved into one of
them EOS and, at the end of the road where we lived there was the
stream EOS and I used to like fishing there for tadpoles, and one day
it was absolutely chucking it down, me Mother said, ‘has she gone
fishing again’, so she came and sorted me out you see, and there’s me
sat with me jam jar, and me little fishing net, and she said, ‘come on
in, it’s too wet to be sat here’ but I was enjoying meself, you know
EOS so I had to go in, I think she was frightened of me getting
pneumonia EOS mm yeah we have quite a- a few things really EOS that
we’re involved in aren’t we EOS we have events at church, don’t we?
yeah and then we go to the **anon** Theatre in- and we go to the
**anon** Theatre regularly EOS and we go to The Lowry EOS theatre,
don’t we? regularly, erm, we support Macmillan, there events at erm,
Trafford EOS erm, you have a group that you go to EOS I go to a- a
little theatre in **anon** that’s been going for years, I go there
regularly with erm, with some friends what else have we got erm it’s a
shame our local, erm, just in this- off the EOS erm, just on the
square EOS **anon**, that has closed now for el- older people, for the
evening bit EOS erm we used to go there on a Thursday, didn’t we EOS
we used to go on a Thursday, yes we did EOS and that was really good
EOS but erm, the cost of hire of the room and everything, it’s erm,
they’ve had to shut down after, what was it, fifty years EOS fifty
years they’ve been going EOS so it’s a shame, really, so a lot of the
old people were really upset about that EOS have you lived anywhere
else other than the town, city where you live now? I lived not far
away from here, I’ve only been here for three years, I did live erm,
from Wythenshawe I went to- when I first married I went and lived in
Cheadle EOS oh did you, ooh you were posh then weren’t you EOS mm,
with me first husband, yes I was quite posh, I went and lived there,
erm, but that marriage, erm, failed- oh I lived in, when I was
nursing, I lived at erm, Bowden at, do you remember d- ooh, I tell
you, you see, it’s coming out she say- she’s quite posh really, on the
quiet you see- yeah, yeah, yeah, do you remember **anon** Hospital?
oh, I’ve heard of it EOS it’s, yes, it was EOS it’s a- it was a n-
like a nursing home EOS you went from **anon** EOS you could go into
**anon** to recoup EOS and I- I went- I lived there, I w- I was there
when it was the Queen’s coronation, cos I wanted to watch it on the-
on the television EOS they had a television there, and we didn’t have
one, and I wanted to watch it but the matron decided that would be my
first night on nights, so I had to go to bed that day, so I couldn’t
see the EOS had to wait, to go home, and watch it on me Mother’s
friends, erm EOS you know, erm EOS I was working when that EOS the-
and why we didn’t close I don’t know EOS cause now they close things
like that don’t they EOS yeah, at the Royal wedding they did EOS yeah,
but erm, so I live- I lived there for a go- and then erm, then of
course I- I married- I married **anon** in nineteen-sixty, we lived in
Wythenshawe with me Mum for a while, and then we got the house just in
**anon** EOS you know, watched that being built and- and moved there
and then three years ago I came here so EOS and that’s what happened
to me, we moved to **anon** so it’s just round the corner from Katrina
**anon** EOS oh, okay, near **anon** EOS and then erm, we- I moved
here the month after Katrina **anon** EOS mm, that’s right, yeah EOS
what are local people like? Very nice EOS yes they are EOS yeah, yes,
we can’t say anything other than that really can we EOS no, I suppose
we’re fortunate in having a good group of people really aren’t we EOS
mm especially around, you know, in this square EOS especially in th-
in this square, yeah EOS but when I- I walk a lot to Urmston EOS going
up Moorside road, there’s all sorts of people say, ‘morning’, yes they
do, yeah EOS they do, they’re very friendly EOS yeah, we find that
really EOS yes, I think we’ve answered all those haven’t we EOS yeah,
I think we have EOS erm, I could- One, two, three. One two three. Yep. That’s fine. Er shall I start?
Are we on then? is that what I was doing- right, then I dunno Games
you played when you were a kid. Oh, skipping Erm there was one called
erm Rallyvo. Used to throw a ball at the wall er and try and hit you
with it, I think EOS Hopscotch. That was always a good one. Used to
play horses EOS me friends used to gallop round the playground. That
was always a good one. And we used to play- What, on top of each
other? no. Just used to chase and make this noise . I don’t
particularly remember them doing that in my school. What did you play?
From morning to night. Erm right, erm-. Amd we used to play on the
railway. That’s not good. On the sidings. Pinching things from
Kelloggs. Stoning trains, was always a good one. Oh my god what?
Putting stones on the track. Oh my god! That’s terrible. Setting fire
to the grass, that was always good fun. That’s what we used to do as
kids. Oh we didn’t. Kids are mollycoddled now they couldn’t go
anywhere near the railway. Well my very favourite game was playing
school in my friend’s shed. That used to be brilliant. Used to be four
of us. Great times. I was always the teacher. Cos I was the oldest .
Anyway, did you help out around the house a lot, when you were a kid?
Never did anything whatsoever. My mum used to do the lot. Well we did.
I wouldn’t be in the house anyway cos I’d be out playing. Football. On
the railway. Setting fire to the grass. On the canal playing with my
air rifle. Another thing kids couldn’t do these days. Shooting things.
Smashing bottles, killing birds. Sparrows, I’m surprised you’re not in
prison now. Anything that moved, basically. Each other sometimes. I’m
surprised you’re not in prison now. Ah it’s my education that kept me
out. friend’s dog, little Jack Russell. If I was allowed to go. Always
cliques in gangs. Some people can do things, some other people can’t.
Bigger lads always used to go, sometimes we could tag along. That was
EOS killing rabbits, yeah. Watching the dog get them. Oh my god.
Flushing them out with the ferrets. Yeah that’s what you do, put a
ferret down the hole, wait for it to flush the rabbit out, and then
the dog would go and get the EOS Oh my god Right then. While you were
playing school, we couldn’t wait to get out of school. And you’re
finishing school and going to play it. Loved it, it was great fun Big
thing was getting all the- it used to be a really big thing if you
used to get a new pad and pencils and pens and- used to share them all
out and used to set homework and- It was good fun, used to love it.
Had a blackboard in there as well, and- cos I was the oldest, and that
was a time, I remember running home, I was only about ten or eleven
and I was in a rush, they were all waiting for me at the door. And I
tripped over a EOS over the banister, and fell down the stairs from
top to bottom and broke my arm. Remember that, yeah I was about ten,
ten or eleven years old when that happened. No permanent damage done
then. Didn’t hit your head did you? Yes I did. I did hit my head, but-
Ah well maybe that explains a few things then. there was no lasting
damage. No lasting damage anyway. So you didn’t do anything to help
out at home? Nothing at all? We had to, to get spends. So if we didn’t
do our jobs, we didn’t get spends. End of. Used to help an elderly
neighbour for cash. God what a different childhood we had. I- I take
it you used to help out then did you? An awful lot. Yeah, yes I did.
ooh, sorry, I’ll just get that EOS Erm what is your best or funniest
memory from when you were a child? But- but what did you do then?
Helping out. What at home? Yeah, you’re saying, ‘oh well yeah I helped
out a lot,’ but what did you do to help out? We used to have to Ewbank
the carpet, cos I wasn’t allowed to use the hoover cos I used into
bang into the furniture too much with it. What’s a Ewbank? A Ewbank,
what’s a Ewbank? A Ewbank- A Ewbank is like a hoover with no motor.
Used to push it up and down, up and down, up and down. What sucking,
making sucking noises like a horsey game? No, no No used to just push
it up and down up and down, it used to hoover everything but without a
motor. You- you just- It had brushes on it. So I used to have to
Ewbank the carpet and then we used to have to polish, but EOS Did you
make the noise of the hoover when you were Ewbanking? No we didn’t
used to make the noise of the hoover, no we didn’t. Erm, yeah
polishing, washing pots. But we had to do that properly. Otherwise, if
we didn’t do it properly, then we didn’t get our EOS She used to dock
us money. Erm-. Do you think Dyson could make a Ewbank? oh n- now no
I’m talking about in th- in the seventies. Everyone had a Ewbank. Did
you not? I don’t remember one. I remember you had a Ewbank. How do you
know? You wasn’t there! But you and me have been together thirty odd
years, so yeah I remember when me and you were courting. You had a
Ewbank in your house. I’m sure it was orange. Well I never u- or that
could’ve been mine EOS well I never used it. Well you wouldn’t have
used it because you didn’t do anything to help your mum. But- yes you
did! he used to make fairy cakes with his mum. That’s not helping me
mum. Well what is it then? That was making food EOS for me to eat. So
did you used to cook with your mum? Occasionally. That was-. And what
did you used to make? Ah. And what happened, what did your brothers
used to do to you? Used to tease me. And they used to-? Well the older
one would. And called him a girl. Yeah they all wanted some of the
fairy cakes. Wouldn’t say that now they see- now they see Gordon
Ramsey they wouldn’t be saying that, would they? No you’re quite
right. If I’d have followed that path maybe I wouldn’t be here now.
Bigger and better things. I might’ve been a better cook than you, I
probably am a better cook than you, but that’s-. I’m a professional!
That’s something else. So then this will be an easy one for you.
Because er- your grandparents- did your grandparents ever tell you any
stories? Lots and lots of stories. What, your granddad told you
stories? Yes he did. My grandfather was known as the storyteller. In
our house, wasn’t he? About how he was lost at sea in the merchant
navy for a year, and presumed dead. and then he just turned up. Wasn’t
during the war, was it? Yes it was, was it not in the war? I can’t
remember. My granddad was **anon** they lived in er EOS In some
countries they call it deserting, don’t they? He did not desert! He
did not desert. He wasn’t- he was captured, his ship got blown up and
they were rescued and- and then they lived somewhere, I can’t
remember. Were they captured by members of their own family? No, no
they weren’t. Oh you’re talking about that granddad. My EOS No not the
Irish side, not the first world war side. He was a deserter. I think
so. I don’t know the whole story about that but EOS he changed-
changed his name, the- the spelling of the surname so they couldn’t
trace him or something. But I don’t know why they did that. Probably
so they didn’t have to fight. I don’t know, anyway. How about your
family? Yeah they told me stories yeah. My father told me a story
about when he was shot in the neck. Yeah, and we all believed him.
Well you would believe him, he’s got a hole in his neck where he was
EOS And what was the hole really? It was er tuberculosis. Given to him
by cow’s milk I believe. And we all believed him. When I first started
going out with Martin **anon** he told me he’d been shot in the neck.
I was fifteen and er for maybe twenty years, is it twenty years, I
believed him. All that time. That he’d been shot in the neck, but his
mum was shot, she had shap- shrapnel in her legs, she’s **anon**
Martin’s **anon** mum. And er when the- when the planes came over, and
the- they were shooting in the fields or something, weren’t they? My
mum wasn’t shooting. She was picking- she was picking potatoes. the
English yeah in a field. Little girl picking- picking potatoes in a
field and er a hurricane pilot decided she was a legitimate target.
And er opened the machines gun- machine guns at her. And she ended up
with shrapnel in the top of her thigh. yeah. She told us some right
stories, your mum didn’t she? From- she had it really hard. There’s I
think nine of them, wasn’t there? Something- was there nine brothers
and sisters. Something like yeah. And it really, really hard eating
frozen potatoes out of the ground when they were kids. And yeah, in
Germany Mm must’ve been hard for her. Not like me you see. Privileged
life that we lead. Some of us more than others. mmhmm, erm, how many
brothers and sisters do you have? And did you get along with each
other when you were kids? none of them. Youngest brother probably,
eldest brother used to bully EOS tease me, together with my dad. And
me younger brother. So you were picked on by all of them. All of them,
middle child, I used to batter my brother, seven years between us. I
used to batter him all the time EOS Make him do things to- for me, or
I’d torture him. He was only little. Oh how horrible! Still don’t get
on now EOS No that’s not true. That’s not true, we do get on, so EOS
So can you describe what a Chinese burn actually is? It’s it’s- give
me your wrist and I’ll show you. That- it’s no good for the tape is
it? Showing. No well you used to grab the wrists with your two hands
EOS and you used to go like that. And it used to burn. Used to twist
the skin on your wrist EOS What in opposite directions? Yes. In
opposite directions, and you used to scream. But my most favourite one
to do with him EOS was the cow bite. Was to grab him like that and
squeeze dead hard, until he’d shift from the chair. We always used to
fight where we used to sit you see. So- that’s what we used to do.
Well my brother used to give me cow bites. I used to hate him. I’m
sure my brother used to hate me. Used to give me cow bites on the back
of the arm, just pinch the back of the arm. And he used to think it
was funny. And I used to scream. and I used to think it was funny and
he used to scream. But then me dad would always intervene and I’d get
battered off me dad. Think my dad used to join in. I think these days
they’d call it child abuse. I’m gonna ask him when I see him now EOS
Yeah I can remember- and punishment from me mum. Always used to hand
out the beatings. the flat back of a hairbrush. Oh, ouch. She’s quite
torturous, his mother. Isn’t she, she’s- threw a turtle on the fire.
Cos she thought it was dead and it was hibernating. Say, it’s not
funny is it? No No it’s not. Now there was the kitten down the toilet.
What do you mean, kittens down the toilet? She told me she used to put
kittens- oh no in a bucket of water. When she was- when they were a
kid on the farm. There were too many cats. That’s what her dad used to
do. dunk them in a bucket of water. Didn’t she? She did yeah. She had
a terrible accident one day with her favourite little kitten. When she
closed the door without looking and her favourite little fluffy kitten
got in the way. Squished its head. That was horrible. Not very nice.
And the budgie. Oh we had a budgie, happy bird it was absolutely
fantastic, used to pick your teeth. Sit on your shoulder, come to you
whenever you called him. On your cup of tea, he’d stand on your cup of
tea. Didn’t he? Yep, he’d been rescued. Flown into my sister-in-law’s
office. And she brought him home and we kept him. And then me dad
decided to give him an airing, outside in his cage. And the cat got on
top of the cage. And we never seen happy bird ever again. Not very
good at keeping animals were you really? I wasn’t bad. We had a cat
called Ginger and my dad used to call him fleabag. And he got run over
and lost his leg, his front paw. What colour was he? and he used to be
full of fleas EOS So you called him Ginger and fleabag. Fleabag, ‘go
away fleabag!’ Used to go mad at him, always clawing. I had a guinea
pig when I was really little. Me dad hated that as well. Mm. He died.
How could he hate a guinea pig? He just used to hate him, he used to
say he was dead noisy. But that was from when I was really little,
when I lived in **anon**. And I left there when I was seven or eight,
I think I was. I remember the hutch in the back- in the back yard next
to the toilet. Cos we had an EOS What was it like then, using your
outside toilet? Can’t remember really, I was only little. But we had
an inside one as EOS Did you used to live in a mansion when you lived
in **anon**? No no, two up, two down. With- two up two down with two
toilets? No there was a toilet outside and then there was my mum and
dad’s bedroom and then there was my bedroom and then there was a wall
with a door in that me dad put up and there was a toilet in there.
Upstairs but you had to come through my bedroom to get to the toilet.
So you used to have an ensuite? So whilst the only person in the
country with ensuite was the Queen, you also had one? It was the
toilet upstairs. Definitely. With glass at the top and this studded
wall. Horrible it was. So an inside toilet was horrible? While I’m
going outside EOS in the depths of winter. Did you not have an inside
toilet? No we didn’t have an inside toilet no. That toilet that you’ve
got now? That’s an inside toilet. I can remember it- that’s- that’s a-
that’s an inside toilet that’s been turned round from the outside.
Originally that was an outside toilet. With red walls that had been
speckled with paint, like you’d do in school. To splash on the paper.
And that’s what we used to have. With a nail. You’ll be saying
newspaper next. And newspaper. Newspaper. No you did not. Cut up into
sheets. That’s not true! That’s true. Izal. Oh we used to have, Izal.
Don’t sound proud of it! It’s nothing to be proud of, to have Izal.
Izal was paper. It was horrible. It was, you had to scrunch it all up
first. Oh it EOS That was luxu- that was luxury, we had- when we had
the Izal in that was like our luxury, rather than the newspaper. That
was like a good day. If you went in there and there was Izal in there
that was like, ‘yeah it must be pay day.’ EOS We were posher than
Martin **anon** in our family EOS because we went to-. You’ll have
come from **anon**, you couldn’t have been- oh no you did have two
toilets didn’t you? Yes we did and we went to Majorca EOS when I was
little. With me **anon** and **anon** on a plane and I was about eight
or nine. And I remember sitting next to the pool eating EOS Rings,
chewy rings. Got- still got the photographs of that. I had an orange
and yellow dress on, that me nanna made. Mm, and a towelling bikini,
with spots EOS So you were there in nineteen seventy two, eating cala-
what, Roll of squid. I remember- I remember it really, really well.
And you were calling them calamari in nineteen seventy two? No we
weren’t calling them that, it was squid. Yeah, remember it. So you had
a toilet upstairs. And you used to go on foreign holidays. We did go
on one. And eat calamari. Only one foreign holiday. I bet you were
drinking wine as well, wasn’t you? No, no that was when I was a bit
older cos like I say with being Mediterranean in the family, we all
had wine. Two fingers EOS two fingers of wine in the glass, topped up
with lemonade or water. And there’s me being dragged off to me
bleeding grandmas in Windsor, into a tower block. Yeah, really yeah.
The old fifth floor of a tower block or something. That was my summer
holidays. That was only one, with me **anon** and me **anon** that I
remember that EOS Unless it was every year, this. No we didn’t get
holiday every year. Isle of Man. Wasn’t an holiday it was like
punishment. I remember going to the Isle of Man. did you not used to
go to **anon**? That was when I was older. I was just visiting family
then, not holiday I was visiting family. ‘Go- go to **anon**, go to
**anon** and watch your granddad die.’ Ah, so EOS Oh my god. That’s
what we did. Where in **anon** is it? It was er near EOS **anon**,
**anon**. We had a good time it was nice meeting family. Watching your
granddad die. Couldn’t under- watching me granddad die. Couldn’t
understand a word EOS But yeah, enjoyed it Not Windsor, I didn’t,
that’s a bit EOS Well other than going round the castle, the castle
was alright. Just me and me younger brother then so I wouldn’t be
bullied all the M; Remember having a bath once with my sister, well I
wasn’t bathing with my sister. That would be a bit weird, wouldn’t it?
But she bathed me, I don’t know, she would’ve been quite old as well,
maybe twelve or thirteen. Twelve probably I’d have been about eight.
And for a laugh she poured sco- scolding water on me head. I don’t
know if it was cold water first or hot water. But whatever it was, she
told me to stop complaining and put the other one on top of me head
afterwards. Oh god . It’s no wonder I’m a twisted individual I
suppose. See that’s my childhood, see? You had a terrible childhood
didn’t you? Yeah so did your **anon**. So did your brother. Being
bullied by you, that’s how he- Oh my god it was a bit of a flipping-
That’s how he feels. I’m sure that’s how he feels. That’s why he’s
gone to America. Because he had to leave because he couldn’t stay in
this country any EOS Do you know what I did do which was really bad?
This is terrible this. He bought my mum- there used to be a chocolate
bar called a nutty. And it- it was like caramel- That sounds
attractive that. that’s what they were called, do you remember nuttys?
No, could never afford chocolates. And it was caramel EOS and it was
wrapped in like peanuts and he bought it me mum for mother’s day and
kept it in the cupboard. He bought it with his spends. And I’ll never
forget, oh I can’t believe I did this, but I stole it and I ate it.
Cos I wanted this chocolate bar so, so much. And I denied all
knowledge for- it was up until a couple of years ago. I told him the
truth. He always used to say to me, ‘you did take that nutty, didn’t
you?’ And I used to go, ‘no I didn’t!’ and I did. And it was only a
few years ago when- cos I go and visit him maybe once a year. Or once
every two years, I can’t- and I told him the truth. And he was really
upset with me. Yeah, was he? Yeah, cos he EOS Well he would be. Cos
all he wanted to do as a child was please his EOS give it her for
mother’s day. All I wanted to do was please my mum, make cakes with my
mum, and I got teased and ridiculed. And all he wanted to do was buy
his mum a chocolate bar. And give it for mother’s day, was it? And
then somebody nasty and older went and spoilt it. I got her milk tray.
Spoilt his special day. His day with his mum. And I can- I remember I
got my mum a box of milk tray and you got a free happy mother’s day
card with it. And when she died she still- when we were going through
all her stuff, we found it, she’d kept it all that time. Really, aww
that’s nice. All that time, she kept it. And this little card as well,
best mum in the world. Couldn’t believe she kept it all that time. She
probably was quite- I dunno, a bit er- surprised that you’d been so
nice for once. I was a very nice daughter. Cos she’d probably see all
the things that you did to your brother and- but you continued to-
well you always liked chocolate didn’t EOS Doing things with chocolate
EOS I know it’s not about childhood because you know, when- when I had
my EOS oh don’t tell her that! Remember I had my easter egg? When we
were married. And you got me an EOS On easter Sunday morning. Yes I
remember. And I’d had it about two minutes EOS and you went all moody,
and stamped on it, stamped on it like a little child in front of me,
Stamping your feet over and over again until the easter egg was
crushed. Didn’t you? I can’t remember now. I can’t remember why. You
can’t rememb- you can’t remember doing it, oh did you blank it EOS No
I can remember, I can remember doing it very clearly. you blank it
out, that’s what I tried to do when-, I tried to blank it out when
nasty things happen to you, that’s what you try to do. Oh I can’t- I
can’t remember why I did that now. Why you annoyed me so much. mm, I
have my ideas why you did it but-. Why, tell me why! Cos you didn’t
get me one? I don’t think that was the reason. I can’t remember. I
think it’s just about your wiring, isn’t it? Er where are your parents
from? Oh we’ve established that really, Well my dad’s not **anon** is
he? No go on! Where are your parents from? That’s if they are my
parents. I always had the feeling I was adopted because there was- I
took so much abuse when I was a child. I always felt there was
something different about me. As if I’d been abused, not abused but as
if I’d been- I’d come from EOS But you and your brother are spitting
image of each other! I know but it wasn’t like that when I was a kid.
With your big freaky head. They used to- they used to say I had a big
head, yeah. He had a huge head. Yeah with the biggest afro you’ve ever
seen in your life, it used to EOS What does ‘’ mean? Your head, your
hair used to move before your head did. . your brother told me! What,
me brother told that mey head used to go ‘?’ EOS He said your head-
your afro was that big it used to wave in the EOS But if it was windy,
what if it wasn’t windy? I don’t know. So where’s your dad from? He’s
English, from Salford. My dad was born in Salford. Wasn’t he? And
lived in **anon**. M’: That’s a nice move that, isn’t it? From dirty
Salford to the suburbs of **anon**. Is that where he got the idea of a
second bathroom from? From living in **anon**? There was a toilet
upstairs, there was a toilet upstairs. How did he move from **anon**
to **anon** then? To the slums of **anon**? It was not a slum! It was
a slum, that was why you moved cos they pulled it down. Knocking the
houses down, because my dad used to work for a company EOS Erm and I
think the houses, I’m not- I’m not too sure about that. I know all the
houses were originally built for the factories weren’t they, that were
there. For the factory workers. But I’m sure it was my mum and dad’s
house. You know I’m pretty sure it was and they moved us to **anon**.
Cos they were pulling them all down. But they didn’t pull them down
for about five years, did they? Moved everybody out and then didn’t
pull them down EOS Well they put Asians in them didn’t they? That’s
what they did, yeah. Immigrants. But happy, happy childhood my best
friends, **anon**, **anon** and **anon** used to live across the road.
Oh that’s nice. Yeah, I remember that, playing with the prams having
races down the street with our prams. Playing cricket in the entry.
Couldn’t play cricket now but . How do you play- how do you play
cricket without ca- being able to catch a ball? I can catch a ball. I
can catch a ball. But you couldn’t on holiday. Oh here we go again.
Well you couldn’t! You couldn’t catch-. He was on holiday, he was
throwing this ball at me in the sea, and he was skidding it so it was
like that, ‘.’ EOS And it was splashing all the water in your face.
Well you’re like that shutting your eyes, and you can’t catch a ball
with your eyes shut. Is that those really small ones? Yeah **anon**
was saying. It was fantastic. Him and **anon** played for-. Throwing
it at each other. For about an hour, nearly put your shoulder out. But
that was the thing, catch the ball EOS So yes I can catch a ball EOS
Shall we move on now, do you want to move on? Do you want to move on?
School days, go to school days! You had nice catholic schools, didn’t
you? That must’ve been nice. Bet the n- nuns were nice, weren’t they?
**anon** in particular. I wouldn’t mention any names Janice **anon**,
but- No it’s okay it gets edited out. Oh that’s okay. I was only
kidding her. She’s- she was terrible. She’s really, really evil. Used
to- she had a knack, she used to throw the board rubber and she used
to get you EOS It just- it- there had to be complete silence in the
classroom and if you dared ask someone next to you for a pencil or- oh
my god, you used to get it. And you used to have to stand in the
corner- there was a teacher called er **anon** and your nose had to be
on the wall, like that which- just stand there, all through the
lesson. Until she was ready for you to sit back down. She was evil,
horrible woman, horrible. That’d be child abuse now I’m sure it would
be. Can’t touch them now. Erm, how about you at school? He’s really
clever he went to a grammar school, didn’t you? It wasn’t me first
scho- they didn’t put me straight to grammar EOS I had to- I had to do
infants and juniors first. I loved my school, **anon**, and then
**anon**. You got bullied at school, didn’t you? A little bit yeah Mm,
I did. Is that why you used to- is that why you used to go home and
bully EOS You used to- but- but you used to be a bully at school. I
didn’t bully anybody EOS I didn’t bully I was just a bit rougher than
the other kids. Is that not a bully? Didn’t bully them, no I didn’t
bully them. You used to batter anyone? Just everybody- no people just
used to have their place. And you were the top of the pack, were you?
Mm, top bit of it, yeah. Top ten percent. That’s just the way school
was. Bit like that in EOS Suppose yeah, it is. Do you remember your
first day at school? I bet you had shiny shoes on, didn’t you? New
shiny shoes. I remember my first day at secondary school. When I was
eleven. I do remember that. Me nanna and granddad bought me this
bloody briefcase. I just wanted a backpack, like everyone else. That’s
all I wanted was this backpack. But my nanna and granddad- well it was
me granddad, he’d gone to London to see his mother. And it was them in
the house that had give him this briefcase that used to be my uncle’s.
Oh god and it was brown and it was horrible, with this big buckle
thing on the front, oh I hated it so much, and I had to take it to
school. And they just laughed their heads off at EOS I hated it. Hated
it so much. I wish I’d have had one like that. What did you have? I
had a briefcase, it didn’t sound as nice as that one. Oh Martin
**anon** it was awful. It was brown, like dark- like- like a tan
brown. It was so noticeable. Oh and it used to make this clicking
noise, oh god. Yeah you couldn’t even open it quiet EOS it’s all
coming back oh no EOS you couldn’t even open it quiet. everyone used
to look. What did you used to keep in there? My lovely pencils. Cos I
used to love my pencils and my felt tip EOS And my books. And me
dinner tickets. I bet you used to like dinner didn’t you? Dinnertimes.
Did you used to like dinnertimes? I was dead skinny then I was, I was
really skinny. Yeah that’s because you liked dinnertimes, that’s
because- but you loved school dinners didn’t you? I did yeah. Cos you
became a school dinner lady. I am a catering manager thank you very
much. I manage the kitchen. Yeah we’ll call it-. I manage my cook, and
my washer uppers. And you do some cooking as well. I do cooking, I do
the c- I do the main meals, yes. Do you now- do you er- bring back
your old favourites? You know, the stuff that you used to like when
you were a kid? Do you now cook that same stuff for the children that
you’re cooking for now? Yeah, things like rice pudding, tapioca, erm
lemon sponge and custard. Chocolate sponge with mint custard, that’s
one of the EOS Do you think the chemicals in the mint custard- Do you
think they could affect children? Er no it’s a mint- it’s a mint erm
essence. It’s a pure- pure mint essences we use. Where do they get the
luminous green colour from? Erm it’s a food colourant. Yeah but we use
one teaspoon for four gallons of custard. That must be pretty powerful
stuff. It is cos it only ever hi- hi- a tinge of green, if I make it
too green, they won’t have it. Do you think if you ate a spoonful of
that green colouring, do you think you’d turn green? If you took it
neat? I’m sure it would do irreparable damage to your insides. What
about your skin tone though? But watered down- well they do say if you
eat beta carotene, which is a natural food colourant in carrots, that
it is in tanning tablets and that’s what makes you go brown. If you
take enough of them, yeah EOS Do you think that there’s Martians
somewhere that- I dunno, on some planet outer universe, that are green
coloured, but only light green, that they might take this green food
colouring to tan them up. Do you think there’d be same type of-?
You’re very weird. Tablets for martians? So like you’d be like a light
green martian but you’re thinking, ‘I want to look like I’ve been on
my holidays, so I’ll take a little mouthful of Janice’s **anon**
special green food colouring and that’ll green me up.’ EOS No I don’t.
yeah, that’s a very, very weird thing to ask. Anyway what else do I
make? Make all sorts of favourites, cobbler, minced beef cobbler they
like. What was your favourite school meal? When I was at school? Yeah
what did you used to look for? You’re in the queue-. Obviously you’re
probably bullying a little kid in front of you. I never bullied EOS
yeah I never bullied at school. I was bullied. Chinese burns, cow
bite. No I was never- I never ever bullied at school. But my favourite
thing at school was gypsy pie. It was the best thing ever. My mum
tried to make it and she could never make it the same. What’s a gypsy
pie? Gypsy pie is pastry, jam, and then a mixture of desiccated
coconut and golden syrup. And one or two other bits and bobs in it.
Yeah, mm that sounds nice. And cornflakes, all mished together and you
put it on top and it’s EOS Couldn’t eat it now. But er- and we used to
have er mince and onion pie as well EOS at school with mashed potatoes
and gravy. That was another big, big favourite, cos my mum never used
to make pies. I used to love that What was yours? I can’t remember to
be honest. I used to love them EOS It was all pretty bad EOS but we
always used to go back for seconds. You were always quite happy when
you was- you were last in the last year to go up. Cos you used to get
seconds. Cos you used to get seconds, yeah. But I can’t particularly
remember anything in particular. Jam and rice pudding’s the big
favourite at my school. They love it, one of their favourite,
favourite puddings. Oh do you remember them? They were big wasn’t
they? Not as big as a wagon wheel. I used to love that, shortbread
with chocolate on the top, wasn’t it? I used to love them EOS Used to
have them at break times. Yeah used to say, ‘dundee’ underneath didn’t
they? Sugar on it EOS I never had one. You never had one? I used to
sp- No, I used to spend my money on cigarettes. Well that’s what you
did, start smoking at eight. I don’t know what you’re laughing at.
That’s when kids started smoking then. Pinch them off your mum. Pinch
money out of your mum’s purse. oh my god! Cos I didn’t do any jobs for
her, she was never gonna give me spends, So I used to pinch money out
of my mum’s purse. my, God Martin **anon**. And we’d all go- we’d all
go home after school and pinch money from your mum, then club it all
together and get five Kensington’s club. Oh yeah. Or Park Drive or
whatever you could get in fives. And then have one each. And do you
know what he used to do as well, when he was little? It’s EOS They er-
they had a corner shop. And they used to climb over the wall, pinch
the bottles, take the bottles, come back over, go into the front of
the shop, give the shop keeper the bottles and we used to get five p
back for them EOS was it five p or a penny or something. More like a
penny, probably. In old money. For his own- for his own- from his own
bottles. Terrible, you were really bad you EOS I wasn’t really- it was
normal we were just normal kids. Never got in trouble cos we didn’t
get caught. that’s okay then EOS Yeah, erm. In your opinion, how has
your community changed in recent years? Oh it’s changed loads hasn’t
it? Er there’s a lot more er dogs knocking about. Dog poo! Dog poo’s
not white any more. Because it’s the bones. The bonemeal that used to
be in dog food. And they stopped doing it because of, is it BSM? BS-
BS- Er British School of Motoring? oh what’s it called? The- the-
the-. Mad cow disease. I don’t think that had anything to do with it.
Are you sure I thought that’s why they stopped doing them. I am sure
yeah. No white dog poo went long before then. I think they just put-
stopped putting calcium in the dog food. Don’t know what reason. So
yeah, you don’t see white dog poo any more. No you don’t EOS Apart
from my dog, who only has white dog poo. Cos all he eats is raw
chicken EOS and bones, doesn’t he? Did you have a favourite teacher at
school? I know you got the nasty ones, the nuns. Little mob of your
nuns that used to terrorise you all, but did you have a nice teacher?
Er **anon** he was the headmaster. This is in secondary school, I
liked him. He was always really kind, Firm but kind. We used to do
something well and he a- he always used to give you sweets. We used to
have a sweet called mojos. And he used to give us a mojo to eat. Was
that your favourite sweet, because you look like a bit of a curly
wurly girl to me. Used to love curly wurlys as well. I knew you did I
could just tell by looking at you. And fudge. Fudges and curly wurlys,
yeah, and I used to love pear drops, they were my favourites and my
dad used to get cough candies for work and I always used to pinch them
. I remember sweets as a kid, I remember my friends giving me sweets,
my younger brother and two of his-. You never used to get any did you
not? And two of his friends and two other friends, best friends, they-
the- Who was your best friends? **anon** and **anon** and- And they
used to get sweets. No they just give me some sweets one day. And as I
was half way through eating them, they told me that they were- that
they actually found them. Or they’d got them from a girl called
**anon** who was like the dirtiest, horriblest girl in the whole wide
world. And they said they’d got the sweets from her. And I was halfway
through eating them. And I had to spit them out and be sick. Oh was
she that bad? She was that bad, we d- we perceived her to be that bad.
And my friends gave me sweets from her. And laughed as I was eating
EOS and you didn’t know why they were laughing? No I just thought they
were being kind. But they weren’t and it made me cry. in front of your
mates? Yep cos it was that bad. How old were you? Oh get lost! how old
were you? I dunno, ten or summat like that. Eight. Used to have that
effect that’s the effect she used to have. Scruffy, Why was she so
bad? Because she was scruffy and horrible EOS Did she smell? Yeah
smelly horrible dirty, yeah EOS Nobody would ever sit next to her in
class. Cos she smelt? Yeah cos she’s smelly and horrible and. ooh,
where does she live? **anon** I think. that was my address you liar!
It wasn’t you, was it? No it was not. No she’s living in the next
street. Do you know her now? I didn’t like sweets after that. Put you
off. Yeah put me off for life. We’ve still got a lot of friends that
still live in the community though, haven’t we? Still live in the same
place. oh, that’s nice EOS All our lives really. It’s not that- it’s
not that nice really. we’re still friendly- few- quite a few friends
have moved away, haven’t they? **anon** moved away to where is he
Leek? Is it Leek? Yeah it’s Leek. yeah Leek. He’s moved away. **anon**
just moved to Cornwall and- But still a lot of friends-. You don’t see
many old people in- in Stretford any more, or **anon**. Is it because
they’ve all died? Are we the old people now? We’re turning into them,
yeah. Forty six, forty seven, yeah. We’re classed as middle aged now
aren’t we? Cos what what used to be the- the OAP home became the young
EOS Yeah single parent’s thing, yeah. And that was a bit shit. Then
they knocked the church down. Yeah, where all our kids were
christened. And made that social housing. Filled it full of black
people. Oh, just reminded me- yeah. That was a bit shit. You just
reminded me then when er- when I- we used to- then they knocked down
**anon**. Yeah when I- and took all the rubbish from there and moved
that into my community. And that’s a bit shit. Then the pub we go in.
That used to be full of people. Is now empty all the time. And that’s
a bit shit. Full of little scabby kids, isn’t it now? Yeah black lads
on mountain bikes outside. Scary, it’s horrible. We don’t go in.
That’s a bit rubbish yeah. Er but, talking about that old people’s
place, when I went to **anon** we all used to have to go and do stuff
in the community like help a EOS and me and one of my friends,
**anon** **anon** we used to have to go to the- that old people’s home
on a- on a Saturday or Sunday and just do something for folk, you know
just EOS just help out EOS have a chat or EOS go and walk round the
garden with one of them. **anon**, **anon** her name was, the lady we
had. Then she died. Did she leave her purse out? No she gave me an
ornament, I always remember that. I dunno what happened to it though,
a little- How did you manage to smuggle that out? She gave it to me!
She gave one to me. Is that what you t- is that what you told your
mum? She gave one to me and she gave one to **anon**. Little fairy
thing it was. All chipped and battered. Cos we always used to dust her
ornaments for her. Oh that’s nice. Then one day there was one missing.
No she gave them you. Pinching from blooming shop keepers. And I bet
**anon** was old and she didn’t know whether she’d give it you or not,
did she? she was old, no, used to push her round in her wheelchair in
the EOS You used to push her around you say? In the wheelchair around
the garden. Cos they used to have big rose beds didn’t they, do you
remember? I do remember the nice rose- they used to have- yeah
tendered rose EOS Yeah they were lovely. Both there and in the er- the
council housing that was across the EOS What was it called? **anon**
that’s it. Four storey high council flats. Yeah old people’s- for old
people. Used to have like a community room as well downstairs. With a
tv and-. All very pretty, all w- all well tended. Yeah. It was it was
lovely. Don’t have flower beds anymore. No it’s horrible. yeah cos I was going to say one of the other bits of the interview is
just about, kind of what you do for a living and stuff so EOS well not
a lot at the moment EOS right that is okay so just feel free to- chat
away when you- er the crazy thing is, is if you weren't here we'd be
chatting away like anything it's yeah EOS yeah just yeah just normally
yeah EOS well tell us about erm where you live, I mean you can- you
can talk to me kind of thing while I’m doing it EOS you don't- but I’m
not allowed to start you know speak back to you kind of thing but
tell- you know tell us about that first if you want, well where I
live’s in the er- the regeneration area, because they’re ripping
Salford apart at the moment so erm by two-thousand eleven where I live
will be gone EOS er which is a- a multi-story block which is er w- I
should think will be all the better for it EOS you know it will be
completely gone EOS yeah although some of them they’re doing up now
EOS aren't they them ones that EOS yeah it's to save money EOS yeah
advertising them as absolutely super-duper gorgeous apartments aren't
they EOS yeah, well it’s just counc- it's just like right behind
Salford precinct EOS yeah council slums EOS revamped council slum EOS
yeah, because I’ve just moved like back into like sort of ‘Salford’
Salford, cos I was in **anon** erm, and then before that I was- I was
in **anon** with me mum so probably not far from where you are near
**anon**, erm and before that I used to live, like down at the bottom,
didn’t I? in like the proper old terraces, like I had one of them, erm
and we sort of did all that up and then, just relationship came to an
end and I moved back with me mum but did a lot of work on that house
really EOS yeah I did EOS you did yeah , I was the painter EOS and
they did all the hard labour EOS or rather you did EOS very hard
labour EOS yeah, this one’s getting there now isn't it- your school’s
gone now thought hasn’t it, that- cos your school used to be there EOS
that went ages ago that’s a block of flats now yeah EOS yeah they did
erm- when I was a kid there was a group called the Spinners, and er
there’s a song called Dirty Old Town that’s about EOS and they
actually sang it and got filmed on the bridge that was over the road
when we were at school EOS cos you used to go over the bridge to the
playground or something EOS yeah, yeah the school was on one side and
the playground was on the other and there was a bridge over the road
EOS yeah and they- they actually recorded it and did a video on the
‘Dirty Old Town’, you’ll want to look that up if you’re thinking about
Salford that song EOS it’s about all the gas works and all that, that
like it was when I was a kid EOS god so what is that- see and I was
born at **anon** hospital you was born at home though, weren’t you?
yeah, yeah **anon** in the old **anon** yeah EOS put in a drawer and
shoved under the table EOS no it’s completely- I mean it- it’s
absolutely completely different now I mean, it- it’s like when you and
**anon** were little wasn't so very different but I think computers
have made a huge difference to the kids EOS I mean cos **anon** now at
thirteen I mean EOS yeah, it’s just that- that’s me half brother, it’s
just Xbox, Xbox, Xbox twenty-four seven EOS yeah that’s really so-
that’s all- everything else is just boring isn't it you know EOS and
er he is- he’s sheltered as well because he’s- he’s the only child
with his mum EOS mm and er EOS and they live down in **anon** don't
they EOS cos she moved for work so, and his nana when he comes staying
up here, she only ever had two EOS she’s scared of anything that a boy
would do isn't she- she can EOS yeah boys do yeah EOS ‘oh you can't do
that’ EOS ‘come and dress you doll in front of the Xbox’ EOS yeah, I
think that’s why she had that rag-doll sat on the sofa EOS in the hope
that he’d get into that EOS yeah, yeah and then I go up with a gun EOS
er it is- even I notice it now though like from when I was little like
just speaking to **anon** now he’s getting to like thirteen it’s EOS
it is difficult to talk to kids now isn't it? it’s- unless you know
about computers and you’re- you’re into like the games and everything
it’s like, my boyfriend **anon** he’s like into computers but he’s
Playstation three, and me brother’s Xbox and it’s like, you know
they’re totally different things both thinks one’s better than the
other and EOS it’s just- it’s crazy isn't it, they just like- you’ll
sit there and it’s like- just like playing like with a console isn't
it just thumbs and staring at the TV and EOS well I- I try- I try to
introduce him to things that EOS nothing else- they could be EOS you
do outside the house the kind of things I did when I was a kid EOS you
know like, catapults you know EOS and then the air rifle and what have
you, you know and- and just try- just trying to get him outside the
house is a struggle because it’s- it’s like- it was like when we went
to that scooter do last week, wasn't it? we were there I mean the
vintage scooters and- and it was really good cos these are like me
cousin runs this **anon** scooter club EOS and we were thinking ‘oh
proper little lads thing’ you know, ‘bikes, he’ll love it’ or EOS what
thirteen year old lad isn't going to want to sit on a motorbike you
know but, no ‘I’m bored, can I go’ EOS he was like getting up and
going for like crisps or a coke or EOS just to get up and do something
like walking past all these lovely EOS yeah, blinkered completely yeah
EOS to the burger van at the end yeah mind you he was- he was getting
a bit better towards the end weren't he but EOS yeah only when I told
him that the boredom bit won’t work today that EOS it’s a nice day
we’re having a- a, you know just- just relax you know and having a
drink and sitting on the grass and you know enjoying the EOS yeah, mm,
yeah it is but- so sit down and enjoy it EOS that’s what it is, it’s
like when- when we were little we used to play outside for hours EOS
well, you had a den EOS and like it’d be dark, yeah and we had a den
but me mum would be shouting us in, you know to come in but now you
can't kick them out EOS yeah, well we li- we lived- it was right in
**anon** wasn't it and EOS and all the grass verge over the side where
the bushes were and you and **anon** were only toddlers and you had a
den in there with the other kids and- yeah, in the trees yeah EOS
yeah, right in front of the EOS the dual carriage way EOS yeah, it’s
like that- that motorbike I got for **anon** that time and EOS yeah
like that quad bike thing EOS yeah well it wasn't it was a- it was a-
what’s it- wasn't it- it was a child's bike- a dirt bike for when he
was six years old EOS and er he kept jumping off in it and letting it
go on its own EOS he used to run off around the field EOS ‘dad, I’m
scared’ EOS and let the bike go EOS remember them water pistols EOS it
had like a big tank on his strapped to his back yeah EOS yeah, and-
Super Soakers he had like yeah, two tanks on his back and he was that
little the weight of the water used to pull him over EOS I was on the
doorstep and the- the- the whatsit the er bus stop was on the other
side and all the people waiting at the bus stop EOS and we were able
to fire it and we were able to soak them from our doorstep and they
did not know where it was coming from, yeah, yeah EOS yeah you could
catch them from behind yeah, through the trees and over the top EOS
used to go far that EOS great example as a father EOS yeah yeah ‘move
it a bit to the left son, bit to the left’ EOS yeah, yeah ‘g- just-
just get the old lady there with the bag’ EOS and then he used to- he
was- he was a little terror I mean I was EOS you were- you were bloody
worse but EOS but- but he w- well like no cos everyone’s always like
‘oh, you were terrible, you were terrible’, **anon** let himself out
onto the flat roof and stuff didn't he EOS yeah he- he- he was on the
roof getting his toys back in EOS he was a bit more dangerous EOS
well, he’s a boy EOS that- that’s what boys are like isn't it EOS mine
was all centred around jealousy EOS yeah, right, like pushing him down
the stairs in EOS in- in his little- what was it called that little
EOS oh was it a ty- tyke- little car was it EOS the little car- the
red car with the yellow roof EOS yeah he had one of them I still
maintain he asked me to push him EOS he probably did but you still
pushed him gr- you know happily EOS yeah and he land- he landed he
landed at the bottom like upside-down giggling EOS but, oh yeah and
then he got into the wrestling didn't he EOS who was I was telling? I
think it was **anon** last week I was telling him, you know when he
went and he had- we were weren't we when he said he had like a Hulk
Hogan bandana EOS yeah had the- the big s- sponge hand yeah EOS like,
hit- Brett the Hitman's glasses EOS and the big sponge hand wasn't it
yeah EOS the big sponge hand, and he had some of the Ultimate Warriors
as well EOS oh I don’t know EOS he used- and when we used to go to
Camelot he used to always have the EOS face paint put on EOS you used
to always have to tell him what it was but, yeah and he got that big
sponge finger and then we had an argument and I broke the finger off
it so EOS which he still does not forgive you for and he’s twenty-one
EOS no, yeah, yeah he still mentions it yeah EOS oh- oh, yeah, now
he’s into his cars it’s a shame he didn’t come to that scooter thing
EOS he would have enjoyed that EOS yeah, yeah he’s at- he’s at erm
Center Parcs isn’t he, this weekend with his mates yeah EOS I think-
yeah, we’ll have to find a car one though cos **anon**- I think
**anon** was saying he’d have been more interested in the cars, well
you- you don’t know do you EOS I mean I- you see a car with him and
you say ‘do you- do you- do you like that?’, ‘it’s alright’ EOS you
know, I- I don’t know whether it’s just that- that thirteen year old
grunting stage that he’s at you know that- cos he was, cos we were
like when we went to the shop beforehand and he said ‘do you want
anything’ he’s like, ‘oh yeah, I’ll have a can of Doctor Pepper’ and I
thought, ‘well, we’re going to get there in a minute and have a drink
anyway but’ so he went in and then he was sat there like dead quiet in
the front and me and **anon** were talking in the back and I thought,
‘better say something’ like you know, so I just said to him ‘so what
have you been up to this week **anon**?’, ‘XBox mainly’ EOS I was like
‘mm, okay’ , ‘any good games?’ EOS yeah Guitar Hero EOS yeah oh god I
know what ch- that was hard EOS yeah well I- I can't see the point of
it EOS oh no I d- cos that’s what **anon** said to him he said ‘is
there like a free mode, you know where you could like sort of do your
own track?’ and he said ‘no’ so EOS yeah, well he has- he has a guitar
at home and I don’t know, and apparently I mean I’ve- I’ve heard him
once but, he’s er, not too happy about letting me know about it that
he- he plays the keyboard as well but he doesn’t read music, he just
picks it up by ear EOS and he just makes stuff up EOS yeah, well
that’s good EOS erm but I can’t see the point of this- this Guitar
Hero if you can’t actually make a tune yourself EOS you might as well
just spend that time learning to play the guitar EOS yeah, that’s it
yeah, cos it’s just- you know instead of playing somebody else's
tracks by pushing buttons EOS yeah and that- well that’s what **anon**
was saying as well cos he said you’re not really learning the song,
are you, you’re not- you-re not learning anything EOS even though you
are playing along to that song EOS yeah you’re just learning a
sequence EOS but the sequence does not relate to a real guitar so it’s
not EOS it’s pointless it’s- yeah, it’s like the- you can get like the
drums with it can't you, they have like the headset so you can sing
along to it as well can you imagine that you have to ac- I’ve watched
like **anon** and her- her boyfriend and his mate do it, and you have
to like it- it records your notes so you have to like get- hit the
high note if you don’t you like fail the challenge and- I bet it
sounds awful, I bet it’s worse than karaoke EOS oh no, he’s not a good
singer his mate, her boyfriend won’t even try he just plays the guitar
EOS yeah, at least karaoke’s acceptable because you’re mainly drunk
EOS you know so that’s EOS yeah that’s true EOS that’s alright, you
know but when you’re sober and you hear EOS oh I- I don’t know EOS
screeching at the top of their voice you know I- yeah, well there was
a couple when we went to Spain there was a few EOS karaoke singers
weren't they, that weren’t drunk that get up EOS oh yeah, yeah EOS and
do the same song every night EOS there was that old guy that used to
sing that song, that- oh god I can’t remember what it was now EOS oh I
know, and that- that EOS ‘Don't Close Your Eyes’ or something like
that EOS oh, all I remember is that one that kept getting all bloody
Elvis songs and thought he was fantastic and he was terrible EOS he
didn’t even drink but he had a list of Elvis songs that he wanted EOS
ah never seen anything like that EOS and then what was the ones that
they always used to sing, he used to sing the lad that owned the bar
you know to warm everyone up EOS I don’t know, I can’t remember no EOS
I can’t remember what it was now EOS I’m getting old you know, I’m
getting senile and EOS I’m losing it, me memory goes EOS yeah s- g- I
got dragged up I hate karaoke I don’t mind laughing at everyone else,
but I hate doing it and you made me get up EOS hey you made me get up
and you bloody filmed it EOS now there’s nothing- I don’t mind making
a fool of myself but what I hate about mobile- mobile phones is that
now you can make a fool of yourself and you have to watch it tomorrow
EOS and the whole world can see it, yeah the whole world can see it on
EOS you know I mean when- when I was younger you made a fool of
yourself when you got drunk, and you just walked sheepishly into the
room the next day and you know and- and hoped that nobody was going to
say anything now you walk in EOS no one remembered EOS ‘look at you,
you prat’ EOS yeah but I didn’t film it though, I’ve not got it, it
was- oh yeah I did have it EOS but I think I lost it on the computer
EOS wasn’t it that lad- didn’t that lad film it? yeah that Irish lad
yeah EOS cos that- that’s I had to get up and sing the Greece Megamix
with this lad I’d never met EOS we’d like literally- he’d walked into
the bar and I think his granddad had a place over there or something,
and he just sat down cos we were on the table nearest the door EOS no
he- he actually he came in and he sang that song didn't he, he came in
and he sang that song and I- I was at the bar and I was talking to him
when he came over EOS and I says ‘when I used to live out here’ EOS I
said ‘they had a- they had a term, for your kind of singing’ EOS I
said ‘it’s not shite, it’s worse than shite’ EOS and he’s looked at me
and then he came over and bought us a EOS yeah, yeah and then he was
sat with us weren't he for the night and then we had to get up in the
end and sing with him EOS and what was the other one we did, ‘Midnight
Train to Georgia’ was it? Oh no ‘Leaving on a Jet Plane’ EOS yeah
‘Leaving on a Jet Plane’ EOS cos it- weren't it like a couple of days
before we were going home EOS or something and we had to get up and
sing this song and, I- like it was only me and me dad that knew it and
he didn’t know and he was just like filling little bits in you know in
the back he’d be like EOS like in the back as we were singing when he
didn’t even know the words , it’s quite funny but EOS but we- it was
really late on when we got up though wasn't it EOS cos when you first
get in there it was hammered, like it was absolutely packed weren't it
EOS yeah but then by half past ten all the pensioners have gone up
haven't they went EOS one rum and black and you know then mm EOS and
when- the people that really hate the karaoke all get up and leave as
that starts yeah EOS and then you just get left there with like the
people that like the karaoke and the really die-hard drinkers like EOS
but no I- I that was good I enjoyed that holiday EOS I remember the
first holiday we took you on, God you were a nightmare EOS was that
Majorca? no it was Menorca, and you were just- cos we went on a- we
went on a last minute deal because you would have been- I took because
I never used to take me holiday well in- when I used to take me
holidays from work I used to always drive your mum crazy because I
used to say er, ‘oh, we won’t go away this week cos we’re- this year’
because we were doing the house up, and EOS and then I used to be that
fed up that when the holidays come like three days before the holidays
I’d go and book something EOS and you know what your mum’s like, she
likes to pack three months EOS yeah, yeah and make lists about lists
yeah EOS so it, yeah it used- it used to be a nightmare she used to
have a list of the lists yeah EOS and it used to be a nightmare
because she’d be panicking like anything because she had to try and
get everything EOS in one day EOS and she was five months pregnant at
the time with **anon** when we took EOS and you were- what were you-
you were just under two, and for some reason everything was a post
office, and I had to- I mean your mum had a great holiday she was
laying around for two weeks getting the sun I was running around after
you for two weeks constantly EOS walking all around the walls, all
around the pools EOS and you were great and there was a little slide
into the kiddies' pool and I think it was all great EOS and you were
sliding down it and you were loving it until you went EOS until your
head got wet EOS that was it then you didn't want, ‘I want to go home,
you’ve gotta take me home’ EOS where was we on holiday when we bought
**anon** that blow-up boat EOS that was Majorca that. yeah he had like
this inflatable boat, but he- he wouldn't go in the water would he?
wouldn't go in the water cos his legs would go through the holes and
into the water, so he wouldn't go in it so he used to just sit at the
side of the pool in this thing with his trunks and his EOS and never
go in the water. he was only about two wasn't he? he EOS I remember
when we took you- yeah, I think we got a picture of him somewhere sat
in it haven't we? yeah, we went to that other one at Majorca when you
was in the kiddie EOS yeah, the Wizzy club when I was a tree. yeah,
what was her name? Was it **anon**? **anon** yeah, I think s- you've
still got the certificate haven't you? yeah, somewhere yeah. yeah,
from when you was in the Wizzy Club and you was only what, and you had
your one favourite book with you. what was that? do you not remember
it? yeah, you must remember it, one book you wanted to take. won’t
have been Thomas the Tank? no, no, no. cos that was after. oh I don't
know. the Pied Piper. oh God, yeah, the Pied Piper. and you knew every
single word of the book. this little lady bird book and you knew every
single word of the book and you used to have that- that story time at
the end of the night for the kids at about six o'clock, and she came
up to me this **anon** cos you'd taken your book, and you was only
about three and she came up to me and she says ‘can Natalie **anon**
read?’, so I said ‘no, no, she EOS she says ‘ but she's sat there with
the book. She’s turning the pages at exactly the right time’ EOS I
said ‘that's her absolute favourite book’ I said ‘that's the only book
she wanted to bring with her’ EOS I said ‘she knows every single line
in that book. Every single word’ and I said ‘the bad part about that
is, is when I have to read it to her every night before she goes to
sleep, I can't skip a page’ EOS ‘cos she’ll say, ‘well you’ve missed a
bit there, you know, that's not next that dad’.’ you know EOS yeah,
and then we had the fancy dress there didn't we and he did me up like
in this vest EOS and made me a hula skirt didn't you out of palms. no
he w- you weren't. No, what it was it w- it was the last day, it- it
was the last day we were there and we're all packed ready to go EOS
and then she says that she's having a fancy dress for the kids. I
thought ‘oh God, what- what are we going to do on the last day?’ cos
everything’s packed, and you know what your mum’s like, she'd listed
everything again so EOS yeah, yeah, so you can't take it out of
sequence. you know and the list was in the s- you can't take anything
out, no, no if you get dirty you've got to stay dirty because I’ve got
me list in the case. you know EOS so you were there, I mean, you were
only what?, so high and curly dark hair and really dark skin because
of the- the- the Maltese in you EOS and er, I thought ‘what are we
going to do with her?’ I thought ‘we'll make her into a hula girl’ EOS
and that- so I went out and I ripped all the- the- the palms off the
trees strung them all together and made you a little grass skirt. put
a- a flower on each side of your head, and that was it, just a skirt
and a flower on each side of your head and your knickers. and when you
went- when you went to it and she asked you what you were you said you
was a tree. did I win? yeah you did, you won it, yeah, but you said
you was a tree. she says ‘what have you come as Natalie **anon**?’, ‘a
tree.’ EOS intellig- you can't have it all. I could read. and that
little girl that you met. yeah, there's a language one for you, was
she a Geordie? yeah, they were Geordies yeah and- and the accent EOS
yeah, and her name was **anon**. her name was **anon** EOS but I
thought she was **anon** EOS I thought her name was **anon** EOS and I
said to you, ‘no, it’s **anon**’, and you got really angry, ‘no, her
name’s **anon**!’ you know, and- she said, ‘her name’s **anon**’, I
said, ‘Natalie **anon**, that’s just the way they speak’, ‘no!
**anon** her name’ EOS and you kept calling her ‘**anon**’ EOS I bet
they thought I was taking the mick out of them EOS yeah, but you wrote
to her for a while, didn’t you? I think so, yeah EOS Th- that girl
afterwards, didn’t you? I think so EOS ah, but yeah God, it’s crazy
isn’t it, what you remember EOS but- I don’t- it’s whether- cos when
you hear the story, you don’t know if you remember it or EOS you just
think you remember it, you know, cos someone’s told you EOS cos you’re
too little, aren’t you? But I do remember that book, I remember liking
that book mm EOS but that- but you wouldn’t go anywhere without that
book EOS you really- and then EOS wait, I bet- I doubt **anon** had a
favourite book EOS no, **anon** wasn’t a reader EOS cos **anon**- me
brother doesn’t like reading EOS I’ve always had loads and loads of
books, and he’s just into EOS wrestling, he’s into- now he’s a-
wrestling was his favourite EOS now he’s a petrol head, isn’t he? he
loves his car now, but he was- he always loved Maths **anon**, didn’t
he, ? yeah, he was better at Maths EOS and I was always better at the
English and the History side of everything, the writing, and- but he
hates that so it’s like, if he ever applies for a job it’s like,
‘Natalie **anon**, can you come and do the big question for me on the
application form?’ EOS has he asked you for this one yet? no, I d-
I’ve already done it for him last time, when he applied, so he’s used
the same one EOS I remember that time he had- was going to his parents
evening and they- was it the History teacher or something had- had
pulled a fist at him or something, he was messing about in class not
remember EOS and he said to me- i- it wasn’t long before he left, and-
and he said to me before we went, before me and your Mum went, and he
said erm, ‘will you have a word with the history teacher Dad’, so I
said, ‘yeah, why? What’s wrong?’, ‘it’s only he pulled a fa- erm, he
pulled a fist at me in class’, I says, ‘why? What were you doing?’ he
says, ‘oh, we was only messing about’ EOS so I said, ‘you’re lucky,’ I
said, ‘cos when I was at school, they wouldn’t have pulled a fist at
you, they’d have used it’ EOS you’d have got one, yeah EOS you know,
you’d have got a board duster on your head or a piece of chalk
straight between the eyes EOS you know, but- and- and when I went up
to the school and saw the History teacher, I said, ‘I believe you’ve
had a bit of trouble with **anon**’ he says, ‘oh yeah,’ he said, ‘i-
it was nothing really’ he said, ‘I got a bit frustrated’, I says,
‘well listen,’ I says, ‘you’ve got my backing,’ I said, ‘if he’s out
of hand’, I said, ‘if it was up EOS ‘you could take him out and cane
him, the way I had when I was at EOS you know, cos it never did me any
harm EOS and all of this molly-coddling EOS well that’s it cos they’re
too cheeky now aren’t they EOS cos they know they can get away with
it, cos they can’t do anything, but like give them detention or give
them lines or something like that EOS but, I remember being at school,
I was what, must’ve been twelve years old, so it would’ve been the
first year in **anon** EOS and- and- like, you- you’re just kids
messing around in the school EOS and the headmaster, I mean I was
only- only just average sized kid, you know, just spun me round and
slapped me full in the face, in front EOS ‘stop messing around!’, and
you’re just left there, ringing EOS you know, and it’s just, ‘what’s
happened?’, no, but you don’t go home and tell your Mum or Dad that
it’s happened because you’d get another one, you know EOS ‘you should
behave’ EOS for being naughty EOS crazy, isn’t it EOS well we had
that- that one teacher and erm, we used to have to give school fund
every week, used to have to g- I think it was five pence or something
like that EOS and it was supposed to- with it being a catholic school
it was supposed to be- is that like, before they used to do things
like, Saint Joseph’s penny and all that stuff EOS oh God, they always
did that, oh, they’ve always had that EOS we always got them silly
boxes we used to have to make up and take EOS fill it they they empty
it EOS you know, and sisters- yeah EOS and give it you back EOS yeah,
sisters of the poor and sisters of the dead and EOS all of that like
sisters of everything EOS and any saints day, anything to get any
money off you EOS yeah, cash based religion EOS Catholicism, you know
EOS erm I can’t remember what I was saying now EOS the tea- you had a
teacher EOS oh that teacher, yeah and he- and he was our- our sports
teacher and this- this is how things have changed, now this- this
teacher would’ve got arrested these days for what he used to do to us,
I mean, you’re like twelve, thirteen years old, and you’re going
through that puberty stage, yeah, and- and when you come out of gym
nobody- nobody wants to- you’ve gotta go for a shower, but nobody
wants to strip off EOS you know, and he used to make everybody strip
off, nobody could go in in the shorts or anything like that like
everybody tried to do, but he’d- he’d come in the shower himself, with
a wet towel, and he’d be hitting you with the towel and EOS honestly,
he’d be hitting you with the towel, but then, talk about a bit on the
pervy side really, the- you know the foot shower EOS he’d- each week
he’d choose one kid to wash his feet honestly EOS you know, and this-
this was a Catholic school and this was our gym EOS but the- the- the
same guy was erm, our form teacher for one year, and if you didn’t
bring in school fund or if you got in trouble in his EOS he had a dice
and he’d roll the dice EOS and whatever it landed on, that was how
many canes you got EOS and if it landed on six you got a chance to
roll it again EOS so you definitely got them EOS yeah, you definitely
got some but it was- it was just whether you were gonna get one or
five EOS yeah God it’s ment- now they’d just- but if six came up
again, you got a six EOS cos now you’d just get lines, I was actually
reading something on facebook the other day, all about **anon**, you
know, and about the teachers where people like coming on an
reminiscing and they’re like posting on there and stuff, and there was
one guy **anon**, that used to do the IT, and I thought he was alright
but they all used to take the mickey out of him and he had like a
squeaky voice and he had like this massive big boil on his head EOS
and like, he was just a little bit, you know, a bit sweaty and, just
one of them, and they all used to call him **anon** EOS but he- he
actually got sacked and I think all he actually did was, somebody was
like- shout at somebody EOS yeah, he shouted at someone, and someone
was being disruptive and it was on- I think it was only like the- he
was there for the first year I think I was there, so I would’ve only
been like, what, twelve, and then after the second- the second year he
never came back and from what I- I gather he just like literally,
asked someone to leave and they were messing about and wouldn’t go
out, and he just pushed them outside the door, and that was it, he was
gone EOS just for like, forcefully removing somebody from the class
EOS and cos we- none of us knew like why he’d left and they were all
like sort of talking about it on there and, there used to be this
other guy as well, erm, the D-T teacher, **anon**, and erm, they all
used to take the mickey out of him cos he used to like, wear dead
tight pants, and he used to stand like an action man, but he was only
like five foot four or something EOS dead tight pants and a camel toe
EOS yeah, yeah, and they used to call him like- he used to call all
the lads, ‘listen, sonny jim’ EOS yeah, ‘when I was a lad’ EOS like,
you know when he was talking to them, yeah EOS ‘when I was a lad’ so
EOS but he- apparently he- they were saying on there we never- I
didn’t know that, but his brother was at- famous, he was an actor, in
some like TV programme, I can’t remember what he was in now but, he
turned into like, a bit of a disgrace like, his brother, and
apparently like he never you know, wanted to talk about him, and he
didn’t really have anything to do with him, or anything, and it’s-
they were like all talking about it on there, so then there was like
**anon**, our DT teacher, he was mental, he used to like, this
**anon** guy, and like he- he’d like deliberately say people’s names
wrong, just to wind them up, so like my n- my mate, her name was
**anon**, and when he used to read the register out, he used to just
read out **anon** EOS like that to her, and she used to go, ‘I’m not
answering you, if you don’t use me name properly’, he goes, ‘right,
you’re in’ EOS there was some characters but, it’s- they- some of them
were good, but it was more like, sort of the older ones, you know, the
proper old fashioned ones, but like, when they were all new, they were
all like, sort of they’d either be intimidated by the kids or, they’d
just like be super P-C, cos with it being a EOS as well, it was just,
you know, people are all the more eager to complain aren’t they but
EOS oh, well the- there was no P-C when I was at school w- when- w-
started at school, remember I told you that, when I slipped off that
corrugated steel EOS I’d ripped all the skin off me fingers, and I
went into school the next day, with plasters all over me hands EOS and
the k- the teacher caned me on the same hand EOS now that was- I was
about- I was probably about nine or ten when that EOS you know, and-
and- and they were wicked, and we used to have this- this one teacher,
**anon** you know the three foot ruler they used to use on the- on the
board EOS that was used for whacking you on the head with EOS and we
had- we had another one, **anon**, and he had a whip and he had- it
had a wooden handle, about so big, yeah, and then it was like- it was
like a belt about, such a length, there, and he used to hit you with
that and it used to wrap round your hand and come back EOS and flick
you, it was- he was a nasty piece of work him EOS and then this- this
guy called **anon** he- he was erm, he was really nice, this- I was
probably about eight years old, and he’d erm, he’d been caught in the
erm, the retreat from Dunkirk EOS erm, and he’d been on the beaches
for like three or four days waiting to get a boat back home in the
Second World War, and erm, he was shell EOS and- but he was a really-
a really, really nice teacher and dead tolerant and everything, but if
you upset him EOS ah, he used to, and he’d boil, and his face would be
red- yeah, and he’d go really, really crazy, like everything’d come
out of him, you know, but he was- there used to be like about thirty-
six kids in a class EOS cos think, they were a lot smaller when I was
at school EOS yeah, every Friday night, before we went home, or every
Friday afternoon, he’d buy the whole class a bar of chocolate each EOS
he was- he was great, he was really nice, but he used to have this-
like this- this- this bit of erm schizophrenia sort of spate you know,
that he’d- he just- he’d just switch completely EOS yeah, to someone
else EOS and he could be a l- yeah, could be a little bit scary EOS
yeah that’s- that- my favourite teacher though was **anon**, me
History teacher, cos she was great, and cos I- oh you- she loved you,
because you loved history EOS yeah, oh I know she loved me, yeah, cos
I loved history but, there was that- she was like that though, she’d
boil, she’d be dead nice and like dead chatty and if you loved work
and you wanted to work she loved you, but if you wanted to just like
doss about, she didn’t have any time for you, and there was this lad
in my class, **anon**, and he wanted to be a pilot, and he- he did
history just because he wanted to learn about the planes that were
used in the wars, and he’d obviously didn’t get to learn that much
about it at- I don’t think, to what he was expecting but- why cos- cos
he pilots trolleys round tescos does he now EOS yeah, yeah, I think he
actually- I think he has got his pilots license now though, but erm,
yeah, and he used to like sit next to me like in class, I remember I
was doing this mock test as it was coming up to our GCSEs, and sh-
she’s stood there and she’s like, going through all the answers after
and everybody’s saying like what they got, and what they got, and
she’s saying what the right answer is, and then he’s going like down
this page and he’s going, ‘I haven’t got that question’, so she’s
going, ‘you must have it **anon**, you must have it, you’re just not
looking at it right’, ‘I haven’t got it, I haven’t got the next one
either’ like that, and she goes, ‘let me have a look’ like that, so
she takes the paper off him, and he’d been doing a completely
different paper to all of us, it had got mixed up in there and he
goes, ‘I wouldn’t mind, but I thought it was a bit wrong, cos when I
looked at Natalie’s **anon** answers in the exam’ EOS ‘they weren’t
anything to do with my questions’ EOS and you could just see- that’s
what she was like, she was quite pale, and she had this big like, mad
perm, so her hair was like, out on end, and you could see the blood,
you know, like rising up her face, and he’s going, ‘there’s gonna be
steam coming out of her ears in a minute, there’s steam coming out of
her ears’ and he used to like really wind her up, and like, you’d be
outside the class, and she’d line you all up to come in and then she’d
walk down the line and make sure you were all in EOS and then she’d
let you all go in, like one by one and he’d be like, behind me in
line, going ‘walking the mile’ EOS ‘walking the green mile’ she was
proper like- cos we did all the Nazis and everything EOS oh sh- was
she the one that was dead chuffed cos you had a copy of ‘mein kampf’
yeah EOS yeah, yeah, yeah, I had it in me school bag, cos me Dad had
leant it me and I’d literally read about four pages, and she saw it
like as I was unpacking stuff EOS and decided Hitler was a nutter EOS
and put it away EOS and she like picked it up and she’s stood there in
front of the class going, ‘look at this, Natalie’s **anon** got ‘mein
kampf’.’ And I was like, ‘shut up’ EOS they already think I’m a swot
EOS yeah, cos what- that lad used to say, ‘beam me up swotty’ didn’t
he, yeah, yeah, in first year, yeah EOS ‘beam me up swotty’ yeah EOS
but he- she was that enthusiastic about Hitler and all the Nazis and
everything, just- not about what they did, obviously, but just about
teaching about it, and it was the bit she was obviously really
interested in, he’s- this lad, **anon**, used to call her, **anon**
EOS cos she was just so into it, I remember we went on this trip to
London, and we’d had to have like this essay in about something to do
with the Nazis before we went, and he’d not done it, and she’d give
him like and extension, to give it to her before we went on this trip,
and he’d still not give it to her and we were sat at the back of the
coach on the way there and he goes, did- I said, ‘did you give her
that essay?’, so he goes, ‘did I heck, no I didn’t get it in, I just
avoided her all day today ‘til we were leaving’, so I went, ‘oh
right’, and we were having a laugh about it, and I said, ‘she won’t
let you get away with it you know’, he’s like, ‘I know, we’ll be there
on the London Eye and she’ll be like, climbing up the side of it with
the essay in her mouth’ EOS and he was like, one of those, they sat
there at the back, you know, drinking vodka out of a cap like, have it
in a seven up bottle or something EOS crazy it’s always like- did you
ever keep any animals in the class at school, did you ever? h- erm,
not at high school, we didn’t, no, at primary school we did, we had
hamsters erm, and stick insects EOS oh, we- we had- we had a hamster
when I was in primary school, we had budgies, and we had two rabbits,
but we used to- oh, we had fish as well EOS we used to use the rabbits
as an excuse to get out of class EOS and they used to stink in the
back of the classroom, because they- they were basically belonged to
me and this other lad, they kept the hutch at the side of where we
were EOS and rabbits, ah EOS they smell, yeah EOS God, they smell
something awful EOS and these never used to get cleaned out, we used
to take them for a walk in the yard so we could get out of lessons EOS
we had a big yard, when we had this hamster, there was this lad in our
class called **anon**, we used to call him **anon**, and he was EOS
you know, these big and daft kids EOS he was a real one of these big
and daft kids, and the hamster got out EOS and I said, ‘hey **anon**,
it’s there, behind you’, and he stands back, and he crunches its head
under its foot EOS and this hamsters like EOS yeah , yeah, its teeth
had gone through its- you know they have them big teeth EOS yeah,
through its bottom lip EOS and its teeth had gone through the bottom
jaw bit yeah, so we- we took it out and a- asked the teacher if we
could go and bury it, so we took it out and buried it while it was
still alive EOS it wa- it just wasn’t quite dead, you know EOS I bet
it was when the weight of the dirt went on it EOS yeah, well, I don’t
know, but it was starting to rain so we thought we’d better get on
with it EOS ooh, so not only was it twitching and half dead i- under
soil- it was drowning under there as well EOS oh my God EOS oh no, we
had hamsters, and we had erm, you have always have hamsters, don’t
you? remember- cos **anon** had that hamster that he brought home as
well we had fish, and I remember one of the fish died and the teacher
was like, ‘oh, you need to flush it down the toilet’, and I was really
upset, cos we had fish when we were little, didn’t we? Goldfish, and I
was like, ‘you can’t put it down the toilet, it’s not right’, ‘oh it’s
dead, it’ll be alright’ and i- I was like, I- you’ve got to bury it
EOS yeah, but I was like worrying about it, she went off and did it,
and I’m thinking, ‘God, what if it isn’t dead’, it would be like stuck
in the u-bend, you know, in the toilet EOS just there forever,
swimming around EOS and then we had the stick insects that no one
wanted to clean cos you had to take them out, ooh God, I don’t like
insects EOS well, when we had- when we had the budgie we used to- cos
we used to get them to stay in at dinner time, cos there was always a
reason with us for having a pet in the class, it was either EOS to get
out of the class or to get in the class when the teachers weren’t
there, and the budgie, we used to be able to get in straight after
dinner because, ‘let the budgie out for a bit of exercise while the
other kids all-’ EOS did he not just poo all over? no, they don’t,
well we had- we had budgies, we kept budgies when you was a kid M; you
know, all they did was eat the picture frames, weren’t they, budgies
and cockatiels, you know EOS but erm, the classrooms when I was a kid,
they were huge, the EOS with really high ceilings and you couldn’t
catch this bloody budgie, cos the- the teacher used to have to have
one of these- these poles for opening the top windows the- you know-
oh yeah, we had them, yeah EOS and erm, we couldn’t catch this budgie
so we used to squirt it with water pistols until it got soaked and it
couldn’t fly EOS and then- then throw and old curtain over it and wrap
it up in a curtain and stick it back in the cage EOS it was really
well looked after, you know EOS I’m surprised it ever bothered to come
out to fly EOS one of- one of the cleaners took it home in the end
before it just fell off the perch EOS oh, that’s nasty, remember them
cockatiels we had though, and we used to let them out and they’d fly
around in the living room and I had one, mine was **anon** like the
grey one, wasn’t it, with the red cheeks EOS and then **anon** had,
what was his, **anon**? His white one, was it EOS **anon**, the white
one, yeah EOS and it used to like land on his head, remember, and it
used to route through his hair EOS it used to like- I dunno like, it
was looking for lice EOS yeah, yeah used to like, clean his head, you
know like with his beak, was really weird EOS was it rabbits you had?
And you called yours the traditional **anon** EOS and **anon** called
his **anon** EOS **anon**, and **anon** EOS I remember them getting
out one day, into the rockery at the back, and they were going behind
and me **anon** was there, and he’s quite big me **anon**, isn’t he?
And he was like, running around EOS trying to catch it, yeah EOS from
one side of the rockery to the other trying to catch these rabbits,
remember that happening EOS is that the dogs? think the dogs are
getting a bit restless aren’t they, they’re at the EOS I thought- I
thought I haven’t got anything in the washer EOS sounds like it EOS
sounds like the washing machine moving EOS well I used to- I used to
collect like frogs and newts and what have you when I was a k- cos it-
that was the kind of things we did, we’d- go up to, I mean they call
it ‘Black Harry’ up here now, don’t they, but we used to call it dead
railway at the side of **anon** golf club EOS oh, yeah, yeah, yeah EOS
there’s- there’s three lakes there EOS that, at the time, we called
them the three sisters, and there was a stream that was part of the
old railway that had been taken up years ago that- that used to run up
the side of it EOS we used to get all the frogs and newts there, well
I had erm, a demi jar, and it was about a- a gallon sized demi jar,
you know, with really thick glass EOS and we lived on the flats over
here in Salford, and then I had, all I was great at keeping pairs,
believe me, we had- had all of these frogs in it, or newts which it
was, but, they were on the veranda, in the sun, in this jar, and they
had no air getting out for water, and they boiled EOS because the
water was come- because the sun was coming through this jar, and there
was only like that much water in it, you know EOS and they boiled
alive in it EOS and I’ll come back and they’re all upside down, dead
EOS I bet me Nanna was glad, weren’t she, I bet she didn’t like having
EOS oh yeah, she didn’t like anything like that, no EOS no, so how did
you like get from the flats to there, did you always just used to
walk? we used to walk, yeah, or bikes, not like you lot, you know EOS
it’s quite far that EOS ‘where’s the car?’ you know EOS no, we used to
walk EOS yeah, it’s quite f- do people not use the buses? we we- we
didn’t have any bloody money, we were- you know, we were EOS we didn’t
have a- you wanted to go somewhere, you walked EOS used to go on your
bike- I mean we used to go on an expedition to **anon** EOS you know,
we- we’d go, we- we were all kids EOS that’s quite far though isn’t
it, from where you were? yeah, yeah we were all kids and- and we’d
have these Second World War water canteens EOS and- and- and we’d be
going on our adventures, we- we were going to, you know, we were off
to fight the Second World War on the woods, you EOS cos that’s what we
got brought up on, it’s- kids don’t do that now though, you never like
see them playing out- when they’re outside they’re just being a menace
unless they’re really little like the ones around here, where they’re
out on the bikes, you know, and stuff like that, and you see them on
the skateboards and stuff, now they’re just EOS I mean, we used- yeah
EOS vandalising summet aren’t they, or drinking on the corner, or- I
mean we were, I mean the kids now, the- they’re nothing to what we EOS
we were absolute little sods EOS I mean we used to have full scale
battles for bonfire wood EOS would, cos every- cos what- when we were
kids, where we lived, there was loads of crofts all over the place,
and that was cos we were so close to the docks during the war EOS
these are all bombsites, so you’d have a- a row of terraced houses,
and four or five houses in the middle’d be missing, and there’s just
be a croft EOS where a bomb had just hit that and the rest of the
street was okay EOS and these were all over the place, and wherever
there was one of these, the kids in that area, that was their bonfire
spot EOS so we used to have raids and raid the others EOS and nick
there wood but when I- I say raids, it wasn’t just all like, charging
and shouting and what have you, we’re lobbing bricks at one another,
throwing bricks, and we used to have bin lids as shields EOS honestly,
cos I had my head split open three times EOS and- and in them days, I
mean i- if a kid gets his head split open now, it’s off to the
hospital and EOS have a cat scan and, whatever else, you know EOS no,
know what I mean? your Nanna’d just look at it, you know, bathe it,
‘oh, you’re alright, go on’ EOS back outside, get some more dirt in
it, you’ll be alright EOS yeah, yeah, so I probably had me brains
mashed at some time or other and it was just EOS just part of growing
up EOS no, that we’d- we’d- we’d played on the demolition as kids EOS
when they were pulling all the old terraced houses down, now if
they’re bringing any- if they’re pulling anything down, there’s a
bloody big secure fence around it and the kids can’t go in EOS yeah,
and they have all them signs up don’t they and stuff EOS well now, if
kids do go on it and hurt their self, they end up claiming, don’t they
EOS yeah, well we used to be walking cos they’d- they’d strip all- all
the wood out of them, they’d strip all the- the floorboards out of
them, and just leave the joists EOS and we’d be upstairs, maybe two,
three stories high, walking along these joists with nothing- and- and
that was just part of it, that was- part of what we did, that was part
of growing up EOS you know, but we were- I mean what the kids do these
days was nothing- and I mean all this asbo rubbish, and all that lot,
we would’ve been getting them all the time EOS we were absolute little
swines we were EOS I think what it is now, is just people- kids then
were just like naughty, and they were playing, but now, they’re just
disrespectful aren’t they, I think EOS well what I- I don’t think EOS
there’s a difference, isn’t there? we weren’t naughty so much as we
never caused any trouble at home, you never caused- y- you basically,
you didn’t shit on your own doorstep EOS for want of a better
description, you didn’t erm, but there was- but people were just
curious and that EOS yeah, there was always a group of us, and that’s
all we had to play EOS you know, I mean, the- I remember there being a
batman craze when I was about what, probably about six or seven, it
was- it was the original batman series where it was all ‘kapow’ and
‘kazam’ and all this lot and- ‘Batman and Robin, the boy wonder’, you
know, and erm, we were mad on EOS so the whole estate, you’d have
like, sixty, seventy kids, all with a lone ranger mask, cos that’s all
we could afford for a couple of pence from the paper shop, and a
curtain tied round you EOS you know, as your cloak y- your batarang,
or was it the bat rope, no the bat rope was a coat hanger on a piece
of string EOS and yo- you’d be throwing it over walls and trying to
walk up the wall like batman did EOS like that, you know and that’s
what we had EOS yeah but now you see- I saw some- a little kid the
other day, in a full batman suit, not having none of that, o EOS just
walking round Morrison’s with his Mum EOS no, we had none of that, we
had a- we didn’t even have the right mask, it was the lone ranger mask
EOS just something to EOS you know, and that- that- that’s what we had
EOS cover your face, yeah EOS yeah, yeah, and everybody’d be running
round going ‘batman, de, de, de, de, de, de, de, de, de’ EOS well it’s
like when I was- little I remember like there was- there was like sort
of two ways of dressing up f- f- do you mind if I smoke? no, that’s
fine EOS for Halloween weren’t there, there was like EOS you got
ashtray Natalie **anon**? erm, yeah, but it’s out there EOS erm, there
was like two ways of dressing up for Halloween, there was like, you
could either- there’s only about two minutes left okay EOS get you
like erm, proper stuff- remember when I used to have them EOS do you
remember them that you used to put on, and then like they’d have the
red nails on the end, you’d have them or you’d just like go totally
the other way and just wear summet black and tie a bin bag like round
you and then you’d just go and run round if you wanted to be really
lazy, and just knock on the doors, but then when you’re a kid like you
love doing that and then like, when you get older now, and all the
kids start coming round, you just like close the curtains and turn all
the lights off and pretend you’re not in so you don’t have to give
them anything EOS cos like, when I had my other house, I- I didn’t
have any sweets in, I’d completely forgot, and I had like a few
chocolate biscuits, and then, like, I gave a few of them out, and
after that I’d run out and they were like, this last group come round,
and I was like, ‘oh, I’ll just give them twenty p each’ you know, and
then once they knew there was money coming from one address EOS they
all came back and started knocking on the door, so I had to like turn
all the lights off downstairs, and go and sit upstairs, in the back
bedroom cos like the terraces are like, alleys, aren’t they, in
between? so they wouldn’t know we were in there, so we was like camped
out in the bedroom for the whole night at the back, with like this
tiny little TV and the computer, just watching that like, ignoring
them all knocking on the door EOS well, when yous- when yous were kids
I had the shop so you used to- you used to get everything you wanted,
didn’t you, you’d- you’d come down for Halloween EOS and it’d be,
you’d just choose from what was there EOS and get everything, and then
your Mum’d take you trick or treating or EOS they called it to EOS go
walking round EOS and then when they used to ask you for the trick you
always used to be like, ‘I don’t know that, can’t I just have some
sweets’ EOS you remember them girls when we had the shop, or were you
too young to remember that, who, you kept coming in the shop during
that holiday and, ‘can I have a bottle of lemonade, can I have a
bottle of-’ EOS ‘lucozade, can I have a bag of crisps, can I have some
sweets’, and I was saying to your Mum, I was saying, ‘what’s- what’s
going on with Natalie **anon** here, she- she’s eating an awful lot of
stuff, she’s not normally like this’, and that- that older girl was
sending you in EOS saying, ‘go and get this off your Dad, and go and
get that off your EOS yeah, it was like, there was them benches round
the side weren’t EOS I was telling **anon** that cos he was- we’d
drove past the shop the other week but I think it was when we went up
to **anon** we were coming back, and they’ve took all the trees down
in front of it now EOS and there’s a lay by isn’t there, yeah EOS
yeah, do you remember when we used to stand there, me and **anon**,
and we used to be ripping all the bark off them trees EOS and stuff at
the side, and then there was the chippy next door, and then I was
telling him about when we used to sit in the video shop when it was
closed in the day, and we’d like, sit in behind the counter and there
was like the door for the store room, and we had like them little
goblins that used to stick and roll down things, and we used to be
throwing them at the door, and racing them EOS like down the door and
th- but they never used to make it all the way down, they used to
always get half way and fall off EOS yeah, cos they were just covered
in that much dirt from the floor that they didn’t stick anymore EOS
and fluff out your pockets, and- yeah EOS but I remember that girl
though, cos I- her Nanna was a real good customer in the shop EOS and
when I- I told her Nanna about it, cos I came round and I- these girls
were sending you into the shop, and her Nanna- her Nanna had a walking
stick EOS and she battered her all the way home with this walking
stick EOS because she’d been doing that sending you into the shop EOS
God, that was rough down there wasn’t it? Where that shop was, that
was really rough, yeah EOS Yeah, **anon** still not that nice now
though, is it EOS no, no Beirut EOS and they’re building all them
houses now aren’t they, around it EOS to hide it, the middle of it EOS
like they did with Ordsall, yeah EOS yeah, building all nice stuff-
erm, if- if you go down **anon**, then you go down **anon**, it’s all
nice new buildings all the way down both of them- and Beirut in the
middle EOS you know, so people buy in it, don’t they EOS even though
what’s behind them EOS yeah, it’s cos in- cos they’re bringing all the
BBC up and everything EOS they’re hoping they’re all gonna move in
aren’t they EOS ‘media city’ or something they’re calling it aren’t
they, yeah EOS yeah, and that’s going on the Lowry isn’t it, what used
to be there though, where the Lowry is? The Lowry? That was the docks
EOS that was, I mean, when I was a kid, I mean, all the big ships used
to come up there, and- and the Trafford swing bridge, that used to
turn quite often, cos when we used to go to the matches, go watching
EOS quite often you’d be waiting to cross over while the bridge turned
and a big ship went through EOS cos the ships come up from just past
the Mersey were they started digging the ship canal, right into
Salford docks EOS cos Trafford park was one of the biggest industrial
areas in Europe EOS but there’s nothing there now EOS no, it’s all
like warehouses isn’t it, yeah EOS and apartments that are empty EOS
yeah, that no one wants to live in, yeah EOS right on an industrial
estate EOS but yous didn’t- yous didn’t get up to half the things, did
I- I told you about that time we were riding on top of the lifts
didn’t I? yeah the caretaker on that block of flats, me and my mate
EOS yeah, and the controllers were on top of the lift EOS yeah, the
controls were on the top of the lift and people were able to get into
the life and push the button EOS and then we were able to override it
on the top, so they’d push seven, and we’d take them to two EOS and
then, ‘what the bloody hells wrong with this lift’, and they’d push
seven again and we’d take them to the ground floor EOS I hate that
though, when you’re in a lift EOS and it doesn’t do what you want, cos
you always think, ‘I’m gonna get stuck, the doors not gonna open’, I
did it at work the other day, I went in the lift, cos they’re working
on our building at the minute, so we have to- cos we’re on the ground
floor, they’re working on like all the floors in between, where we
were able to go to the toilets, cos there’s not toilets on ours, erm,
and then the ones where they’ve got nobody on them, they’re block-
they’re locked, so we have to b- going up to the seventh floor to use
the toilets, and erm, like, I went in and I was that- I had me phone
with me, I was on me lunch and I went in, I had me phone with me, I’m
like messing with it, I walked into the lift, then it goes, ‘doors
closing’ like this, I’m stood there and I’m thinking, ‘it’s not going’
EOS I can’t understand why they have that EOS nothing’s happening and
I’d just not pressed the button, but it was quiet, and then the lights
started going off EOS and I was thinking, ‘oh God, I’m stuck’ EOS I
can’t understand why they have that, ‘doors closing’ I mean, cos if
you’re blind you can hear it, if you’re deaf you can see it, and if
you’ve got all your faculties you know the bloody doors are shutting
don’t you EOS so I- ‘doors are closing’ EOS and if you don’t, you will
do when you get stuck in it EOS ‘doors are closing’, I was telling
**anon** about when they were refurbishing erm, Victoria station in
Manchester EOS did I ever tell you about the- the row of erm, portable
toilets that they put in there, never tell you about that? I don’t
think so, no EOS when we were kids, I was about thirteen, fourteen,
and we went up there, and they’re re- redoing all the- and the- they’d
closed the toilets down and they’d put this row of portable toilets in
well we found out you could go round the back of them, and you could
flush them from the back EOS so we used to wait until people went into
the toilet, got comfortable, and then flush it on them EOS ‘what the
hell’s that’ you know EOS wait for a scream EOS but we were behind and
they didn’t- they- they didn’t know that you could get behind them
people, and then they’d go out and they’d be soaking and what have
you, somebody else’d come in, flush it again on them, you know EOS we
had a great afternoon EOS it is, isn’t it? It is simple EOS cool,
that’s great for that bit, that’s fantastic No left channel between 00.11 - 02.37 EOS No right channel between
03.00 - 03.53 and 04.08 - 04.35 EOS Problem with recording at 01.50.
Lack of continuity in conversation caused by omission due to recording
problem EOS Can you just count to three? Is that OK? One two three.
Well Vivienne **anon**, we know where we went to school. No left
channel EOS We went to the same school. We went to **anon** school. it
was. Now did you ever get into trouble at school? Can you EOS I did
get into trouble once, it was something to do with a bird. And someb-
I think the boy that got me into trouble, somebody called **anon** who
lived on **anon**. But I can’t remember exactly how it all came about.
But I know **anon** wasn’t very happy. Ah. Well I remember getting
into trouble at that school and I got the EOS Oh I got the cane for
it. I was late, I’ve never been late in my life, and I still hate
being late for anything. And I dawdled on the way to school and
suddenly I realised that the doors were locked and I couldn’t get in.
And I had to stand waiting while they did the prayers. How old were
you then? Erm I was in the junior school, so possibly about eleven.
Ten or eleven. And I got the- this cane on my l- on my hand EOS who
gave you that? **anon**? **anon** and it was- He was a bit handy with
his cane, wasn’t he? And do you know it really hurt, it- and I was so
mortified that I had to stand there in the hall and be caned. Section
omitted due to recording problem EOS Difficult years to be a child in.
Erm wondering from one day to the next whether the Germans would
arrive on the doorstep. Cos we had shelters didn’t we? We did at
school, which we had to go into. And practice for air-raids. yes, air
raids, mm EOS I got thumped in one of those, I remember, very, very
hard in the EOS Somebody thumped me, we never knew who it was. But
er-. Well you wouldn’t in the dark, no EOS But I quite enjoyed
**anon**. I did actually. It was a church school. It was always a very
good school. But as far as favourite teacher Left channel resumes EOS
Was there one called **anon**? I think she was a favourite. Yes
possibly, she came from Irlam. Mm, she did. **anon** with the strap in
the corner. She used to frighten me to death. But she was a very, very
good teacher. Was her name **anon**? She used to play the piano. I
don’t remember that name. And if we didn’t sing- she taught us
‘Jerusalem’ and if we didn’t sing it correctly, oh my word! She was
very strict. No right channel EOS right, right, I remember **anon**.
Now she was extremely strict. Very strict lady. She was a large lady
and she was very, very strict, everyone was frightened of her. Well I
think-. As far as your first day at school, that school- I actually,
had been up in the lake district cos I’d been evacuated erm to my
aunt’s. And I do not remember really my first day at school but I do
remember at the infants. And I do remember you and **anon** with your
lovely dark black EOS that was cut you know, with your fringes. I
remember looking and thinking, ‘ooh what lovely hair!’ EOS I remember
my first day. Cos I was five when I went. Right channel resumes) EOS
And I think the teacher was called **anon** EOS And I can picture the
classroom. And our **anon** younger than me, she cried because she
wanted to come as well. So she started as well, shortly afterwards. No
right channel EOS Oh, oh right. Erm- but then our **anon** had
appendicitis M did she EOS and she was rushed to hospital. And she
missed quite a bit of schooling because of it. ooh, cos it was a big
operation. It was in those days, yes. Cos they were frightened it
might be EOS Because **anon**, my dad’s sister, she had died at
fourteen EOS with peritonitis. Erm and we always felt that she never
quite caught up, because she missed-. The grounding, you know, the
basics. She’s alright now but that’s the way we felt. Right channel
resumes EOS mm, mm, summer holidays for me were again, back in the
Lake District. Erm I used to go on . We used to go on coach trips,
Stratford upon Avon. Erm I didn’t go to Scarborough. Erm, round Wales.
Me dad used to take us to New Brighton on the bus. But that’s as far
as it went in those days, cos people didn’t go on holiday, did they
really? mm, no they didn’t no. Well you couldn’t because there was no
seaside to go to, because it was mined, all the beaches. I do remember
going to Blackpool once. Yes I remember Blackpool. And it was all
barbed wire and you weren’t allowed on the beach to play. Erm I
presume it was all mined and you know, waiting for an EOS So beaches
were just you know-. A no go area. No go areas yes. Yes. But having
said that, I mean- our school days- we never went short. We were never
short of food or anything like that. No, it wasn’t very good at times.
We made the most of what we had, erm EOS Yes and I still hate celery.
I’ve never really taken to celery. raw celery, I hate, but I love it
in stews. I do actually like it. Yes, in stews. I eat it because
**anon** puts it in EOS but I can’t say that it’s one of me favourite
things. Yes, no. But I think- I think it was very difficult for our
parents to feed- I mean, there were th- three of us, ‘til **anon** was
born. had my sister, in nineteen forty four, so- it was hard to-
everything was so rationed. It was dreadful, you queued for
everything. And sweets, when you think nowadays the shops are
absolutely full of EOS I suppose we were lucky that erm my aunties
were still at home and they gave us their sweet coupons. Sweet
coupons, yes. And we used to go to **anon**. Oh yes, yes. And er the
main thing we had were Barley sugars. Oh gosh, really? And
occasionally a treat, with a crunchie. But it was- that was all you
could get in those days. And then there was the powdered egg, Oh gosh
that American powdered egg. Canned coffee, ooh. We w- we were very
lucky, we had erm- my grandfather wrote to a lady in America who had
been the fiancée of an uncle. Who died in the first world war. And she
went out and married someone else. And went out to America and she
sent us food parcels, all the way through the war. Oh that was nice,
yeah. She was very religious and the church that she went to, they
collected for the English people. And they used to send us some
wonderful things over. Erm and it must’ve been quite expensive to get
it over in those days, over in tho- yes EOS they wouldn’t be flown
over. It would’ve come by boat. It’d take weeks! The only thing I
hated was the wintergreen sweets that they sent. Oh I don’t remember
those. I never had those. Oh they were dreadful, they were American,
wintergreen, and the chocolate was bad as well. And I- I never liked
those. Well even now I don’t think their chocolate is as nice as ours.
I don’t, no. Because **anon** and **anon** love Thorntons, **anon** in
particular you know, the erm special toffee. And when me mum used to
visit erm **anon** in Chicago. Take some decent cadburies chocolates.
yes, yes, yes. yes not as nice as hours. But they used to send- also,
they collected clothes. Clothes that were practically new. And I
absolutely hated them. Because my mother cut them down, to fit me and
they were American style sleeves. yes and you felt different. And I
was different at school in them. And I absolutely hated them. I don’t
remember that Maureen **anon**. I don’t remember. And they were
beautiful things, I’m sure. Yes, yes, mm EOS But they weren’t what I
wanted. But there were no clothes. I know, well-. Very difficult to
get. Cos I know when people got married- I th- **anon** got married at
the end of the war, and it wasn’t a white outfit, it was sort of a two
EOS with a great big hat. She always wore a hat didn’t she? mm, Well
I- I remember my mother making my eldest sister- half sister, erm,
wedding cake. That would be probably nineteen- **anon** was born in
forty four, so this would be forty five, I think. And my mum- my
mother had got all the cake mixture, black market cake mixture of
course. Erm and she made this wedding cake and she took it out of the
oven and it fell into three pieces. oh your poor mum! And she was
absolutely horrified because she’d been a cook, that was her- what she
did as a young woman, and I think she got the almond paste and stuck
it together. Where the cracks were. And iced over it and nobody knew
any EOS So that- but that stuck in my mind and yes, that’s amazing.
Erm but I used to- I did a lot of the queuing fo- for food. But we had
to do, didn’t we? Yes because my mother had obviously had my sister in
nineteen forty EOS and I used to go and do all the-. I did the er-
most of the errands. Did you do it as well Vivienne **anon**? and we
used to go to **anon** on the other side of the trinity. Erm-. And
everything you know was sort of weighed and very precise. Oh
absolutely. When you watch these- I love the history programmes EOS
and I do watch them and you know, what went on in the war years. And
they’re absolutely perfect because you know, they are true footage. Of
what it was like and it makes you think, ‘how did we ever EOS Well we
did, didn’t we? We never went short. Never went short. No, we had
probably just about enough but er-. Yes and yet it’s not done us any
harm, has it? When you think EOS Well we’re still here at seventy four
and touch our toes, Vivienne EOS I don’t know that I can touch my
toes. mm, I can. Yes. Oh gosh yes. Mind you I’ve never tried but I’m
sure I can’t. I’m sure I can’t. Oh dear. yeah, yeah, well we’ve got
our own teeth. Oh I haven’t. Well I have half, the bottom. But I had
mine out at twenty six. Oh did you? Because I had terrible teeth. Oh
right, right. Look at her laughing! We’ve got our own hair colour! Oh
yeah and- well-. With a bit of help EOS The hairdresser’s very helpful
EOS Absolutely. Erm, yes. Erm you know and what else? Well I’ve got
contact lenses. I fool everyone cos I’ve got contact lenses. Ooh no I
just- I couldn’t put those in, I couldn’t mess with my eyes. Oh gosh
yes, yeah EOS I’ve had them about- oh I don’t know, twenty five years,
probably EOS mm, since I- I’m more-. I need my glasses for reading but
I just couldn’t- if I had to wear them all the time, I’d have to wear
them. Just couldn’t put contact lenses in. **anon** does. But I
couldn’t. Erm, well my grandson who’s eleven, well twelve tomorrow. He
use- he has contact lenses, **anon**. And what a difference it’s made
to his life, and I taught him how to EOS Oh I’m sure. Really, yes.
Yes, and erm I did explain it and I keep saying, you know, ‘you must
wash your hands, all the time!’ EOS Ooh hands going near your eyes.
You don’t want to get infected eyes. And I spent a long time- . mm,
Explaining it to him. Explaining how to do it, and do you know, he- he
was brilliant. And he’s so thrilled because he doesn’t have to wear
glasses any EOS Yes, made a big difference to him at school. Because
children generally don’t like wearing glasses. They’re quite cruel
aren’t they? Some of them. Oh they are yes. Yes that’s right. I mean
on the whole I think my school days were happy days. Yes I’m sure mine
were really, yes. But then after **anon** we parted company didn’t we?
We did Vivienne **anon** you went to the grammar school. I went to
**anon** school. And I went to a technical col- commercial college.
mm, yes. And I suppose I did sports at the grammar school. And w- and-
yes. Erm hockey, rounders, athletics. School choir. But I m- that’s a
bit like that now. All gone by the EOS I think they just had netball
at **anon** when I went there. Did they? Well they had netball but I-
I think being on the short side, I wasn’t very good at netball. I was
better at hockey. You are better when you’re tall, yes. And yet funny,
my best friend, who was taller than me, you know, Yes oh yes. She was
good at the high jump. I did the long jump. She did netball, I did
hockey. We just did opposite things. mm, mm, yes. And I think that’s
partly to do with her being so much taller than EOS Taller, yes, yes.
Now then. Funniest memories from when we were young. And as far as
brothers and sisters of course, I had- my father sadly lost his first
wife with consumption as they called it in those days. Er in nineteen
twenty nine or stroke thirty. Erm my sister was three. And my brother
was a baby, about six months old. And my father was working, because
of all the problems with like today, jobs that are difficult. And of
course the twenties and thir- well the twenties was very difficult.
And he went to live in Yorkshire. And-. yeah- whereabouts in
Yorkshire? Well I can’t just remember now, though I’m trying very hard
to. There was a very large erm- water supply, a big erm-. Yes and it
f- I think it fed Leeds I think, up there, but it’s beautiful up
there. And they had-. Is it the reservoir that you see when you’re on
the M-sixty two? No, no it isn’t. Erm and I have photographs of my
father up a telegraph pole, cos he EOS Oh was he? Wiring it all up.
And they had houses as well, and that- my sister took me about four or
five years ago and the foundations of the houses which were stone were
still there. Just the foundations, you could see where they were. Erm
and the water authority, it hadn’t been open actually to the public
and they’d o- they’d o- they’d only just opened this particular spot.
Erm and so it was quite you know, interesting to go. And obviously my
father’s been dead twenty years now. Erm but-. Do you know I thought
it would’ve been more than that, Maureen EOS Erm, well my mother-
father twen- mother twenty and my father twenty two I think. And then
what happened, she got this consumption living there. Sadly and had to
go to er a sanatorium. And he took his two children back to Windermere
where he came from. And his mother looked after them. Looked after
them, brought them up. And that’s how he met my mother EOS there. Erm,
so it was quite- really quite sad. Sad yes yeah. Yeah for him erm-.
Well I can still picture your mother and father, you know- big EOS Mm,
yeah they were. Yes. Tall, and I know when I used to go shopping in
Peel Green to the butchers and your mum would be walking along, and
I’d say, ‘how’s Maureen **anon**? Another little girl!’ EOS another
little girl, Yes. Another little girl, one two three four. Oh yes. But
then you see, what happened with- with grandchildren. Six EOS And
three granddaughters. And five boys, one after the other. We didn’t
have any girls at all. Yes that’s right. Funny that. Mm. But erm-.
Just I do remember when we used to go to church and you were in the
choir, like **anon** was in the choir. And used to go to **anon**,
Christmas Eve, carol singing. mm, really mm. And your Mum, I remember
one year in particular your mum gave us all erm hot chocolate before
we went. Did she really Vivienne **anon**? yes one Christmas eve. Ooh
you can remember things better than me. Yeah, she gave us erm hot
chocolate before we all set off for church. Happy days those, really.
Oh, yes, that’s- it is, probably were, yes. But you and **anon**-. But
you never got much for Christmas, I certainly didn’t. There were just
no toys at all. Well you couldn’t- I think. in the forties EOS The one
thing I remember getting at Christmas was a very nice- and it was off
a friend of my mum and dad’s. A pencil box with a- that’s erm roller
top. Oh I know. Yeah. But, you know, you come down Christmas day, and
your presents would be on the table. There’d be mine, **anon** and
**anon**. Because that was it, wasn’t it, and a bit of fruit?
Whatever- you know. That’s right and a few nuts. You alw- I had a
pillowcase, always had a pillowcase and there was nuts in the bottom,
a tangerine and an EOS mm, oh a tangerine. Yes. And erm they were- I
don’t know that it was quite exciting to have those at the very
bottom. But I used to be so upset when there was nothing left in it at
all. And wishing there were more things, but there were no books
Vivienne EOS and I never had a doll for- I never played with dolls. I-
I wasn’t a doll person, I did have one and I didn’t like it. mm, well
my mother-. I did have a nice doll’s pram. And bicycle that me
granddad bought. But it wasn’t at Christmas, it was sort of later on.
When you could afford it. exactly. Yes, yes. You know cos they worked-
worked hard. Well I do remember a book that I was bought. Two books-
one was ‘The prisoner of Zenda’ and ‘Rupert of Hensor.’ EOS Oh I don’t
remember that but I remember the first one. And they were hideous
books, they were far too old for me. I was just thinking that. And I
c- I don’t really think I ever read them really. but there were no
children’s books. But **anon** from the post office, her parents could
always find Rupert books. Mm, she always had the annuals for Rupert.
And I was lucky, because she used to lend them to me. You know, and so
I could read them. But I never had any books. And my mother, desperate
to get me a doll she went to the doll’s hospital in EOS Oh I remember
the doll’s hospital. And you remember that Vivienne **anon**. Bought
two heads and sewed them on this- these bodies she’d made. And I had-
I always had a black doll. I absolutely loved black dolls, more than
white dolls. Cos I just had this attraction f- for black dolls. And
she got me a black and a white one. And I went to see **anon** my
friend at the time. She’s a mutual friend, **anon**. We went to school
with her, didn’t we? Yes, yeah. And **anon** dropped one of my dolls
EOS and the head smashed into pieces. And I was so horrified I lifted
my arms up and dropped mine. So I had EOS none at all EOS So both the
heads had gone. Oh what a shame and your mum had gone to all that
trouble. mm, yes, yes. Yeah, she w- she wasn’t- wasn’t particularly
good at sewing. But erm, she went to quite a bit of trouble to try and
make up for what wasn’t there. Something- What we couldn’t have. What
we didn’t have, exactly. But my sister arriving in forty four.
Everything went to her. Er the- I- I could not remember what a banana
looked like. I hadn’t ever had one, you see, that I could remember. I
can’t remember when I was little, no. Because I was three in thirty
nine. So when the bananas came, erm-. Now I don’t know how many there
were, whether there was only one, but my father- it had to be **anon**
that had the banana. I remember looking at this and thinking, ‘I
wonder what it really does taste like?’ EOS really does taste like.
And I didn’t find out, and I wonder why they did that in those days.
They could’ve given you half each. Could’ve given us half each, yes
they could actually. Erm so everything went to **anon**. Erm but it
never affected me in any way. Never bothered you, no I mean-. I was
never jealous. I was the first grandchild, spoilt. And then there was
**anon** and then **anon** was the first grandson. And he was spoilt.
mm, mm, mm EOS But because I suppose my nanna and granddad- granddad
in particular with **anon** I was- me nanna was for me. Me mum and dad
tried to make it up to **anon**. They gave her more. mm, yes, yeah.
Like I went to the grammar school, **anon** went to the grammar
school, so erm- made sure that **anon** went to **anon**. Oh right,
yes EOS And got a city and guilds in erm-. yes, catering, wasn’t it?
And then of course, **anon** and **anon** EOS **anon** came along
later on. Yes, a lot later. But my grandparents lived in **anon**, as
you know, and my grandmother would give my half brother half a crow,
which was quite a bit of EOS Ooh a lot of money in those days. And I
was given sixpence. I never had what he had. Because he was the son,
you know, the grandson. And apparently my father used to get so upset
about it and so annoyed, he’d take me home and give me half a crown.
mm, crown as well. Yes. Just to make it up. mm, cos we used to joke,
you know me mum made a lot of our clothes for **anon** and I. And of
course we’d say- course our **anon**’s came from Kendal Mills EOS Yes,
yeah. They were like that with sons. But erm- yes, yes. For some
reason and we’ve got far more equality today. And you don’t treat your
children any different at whatever age. No, me mum and dad didn’t
really, erm. Erm, because er- we’ve got a photograph of the three of
us and a friend of **anon** had knitted these fair-isle cardigans in
two ply. **anon** and I had cardigans, **anon** had erm- I think it
was a v-neck EOS And me mum made sure that the three of us had the
same. Yes. Yes, quality, mm, yeah. Yes, yeah. Tried to treat us all
the same. But erm- now then, what did I help out in the house a lot?
Well I had to do. yes I’m sure I did, I’m sure we had to really. Erm
washing up was always a pain, cos nobody wanted to dry. It’s strange
nobody likes drying isn’t it? No, no, nobody wanted to dry. So we used
to argue, the three of us, cos **anon** was too young. Erm and they
used to- did they have no washing up liquid Vivienne EOS Oh I don’t
remember washing up-. It was Persil. Persil, no washing up liq- We
used to put washing powder in EOS and wash the pots in washing powder.
I don’t remember washing up liquid. Oh they didn’t have it, no, no,
and my mother-. But when you think no washing up liquid, no washing
machine, or things like that. No- no they boiled everything, didn’t
they, in a boiler, but I do remember my mother grating fairy soap,
white blocks- sorry green blocks of fairy soap. Green blocks of fairy
soap. And she would grate it into the dolly tub. Er with boiling water
so it melted, an- and became- so it would clean the clothes properly.
mm, and then they- And they always washed on a Monday. And ironed on a
tuesday. Yes, yes. If they got it dry. Yes, routine, routine EOS mm,
was routine. And we had a cellar, where my mother had clothes EOS We
had cellars. And she used to hang her clothes EOS in the cellar to
dry. And we did have a very old coke burner down there for when the
sirens went and there was bombing. Oh the sirens yes. yeah and- and
erm, my grandfather had gone to the railways and he was a joiner, when
he was younger and lived in the Lake District. But he came down to
live with us and erm he went and got all these- erm, this- these
pieces of wood from the railway that- sleepers. And he propped the
whole of the ceiling of the cellar up in case we had an air-raid or a
bomb- yes we had our own sort of shelter at four-two-seven. At six-
six-three you used to go down in the cellar. But erm I remember my
nan, my nanna and **anon** heard the sirens. Went down into the
cellar. **anon** came home from work to find them in the cellar. ‘What
you doing in the cellar?’ ‘Well you know, the sirens went.’ They’d
gone down for the all-clear, hadn’t they? and they’d been there all
morning. Little things like that stick in your mind, don’t they? Oh
where were your- where are you parents from, well mine are from the
Lake District. Both living in Windemere. Er back-to-back and never
knew each other. Because my father was four years older than my
mother. But they didn’t find out until of course they met up, after
his first wife EOS And my- my mother was engaged to erm a- a man who
went out to Canada and lost all his money on the crash- Wall Street
crash. And said, ‘well I’ve got to start again, I’ll send for you,’
EOS and she said, ‘don’t bother I’m not waiting.’ EOS And meanwhile
her best friend who was my father’s cousin, girl. Erm just asked her
if she’d like to co- go out, as a foursome because EOS my father had
lost his wife EOS and she wanted to cheer him up and that’s how I
become- th- that’s how I ended up sitting here talking today. If
they’d never got together I wouldn’t be here. Well it’s true isn’t it?
Yes oh life is strange isn’t it? Mm EOS It is, because **anon** always
wanted- he did his national service and always wanted to stay in the
army. Oh did he? Yes he loved it. Absolutely loved it. Oh so why
didn’t he? Because his mother and father said, ‘if you stay in the
army, that’s it you’ve no mother and father.’ EOS What was the reason?
Because- well they thought it was erm a reflection on them that he
wanted to be away from home. But they never really got on, he got on
better with his father than EOS but then his father would say, ‘well
if you’d stayed in the forces, you would never have met Vivienne
**anon**.’ EOS And he said, ‘well I’m sure we would have done,’ EOS
‘because we were meant to be together.’ EOS So it’s funny how things
work out, isn’t it? Yes. Yes, was he an only one? With a terrible
mother. Oh she was- . Yes and yet she was in a way possessive, and yet
she hadn’t got a lot of time for him. So I could never weigh it all
up. Nothing ever made EOS Erm and his father was away a lot on
business. You know and if he did anything wrong, ‘wait ‘til your
father comes home!’ EOS And one incident, he’d been smoking when he
was about ten or eleven, with a friend. Friend had a- parents had a
pub and they went on the flat roof and he was so ill. And of course
his mother, ‘wait ‘til your father comes home!’ and then when his
father came home told him, ‘aren’t you going to give him a good
hiding?’ So he said, ‘he’s learnt EOS And he never really smoked
cigarettes again. Occasionally, if **anon** lit up he’d say, ‘ooh I
just fancy one,’ and he’d have one. But he never went out and bought a
packet of cigarettes. Mm, my parents didn’t smoke. But my brother did,
me half-brother did. And **anon** my half sister. mm, no me dad smoked
but me mum couldn’t stand it. Couldn’t stand it. I’ve never smoked.
No, no I haven’t. **anon** has smoked but gave it up some years ago.
Erm **anon** has the odd one, more a social- doesn’t sit at home
smoking. **anon** doesn’t smoke, **anon** doesn’t smoke. mm, and
actually my parents were tee-total. Until my father got to eighty and
then he used to have his brandy in a morning, to keep his heart going
he used to say. Well they used to say a drop of whiskey at night is
good for you. Well yes, they did. Yes, yes, but erm EOS That’s my
excuse if I have one. It’s good for me! Oh but erm, cos you read all
these things in the paper, you know and glass of red wine. Well it’s
beer today, apparently. I know that was in the paper the other day.
Giving- yeah keeping your heart going. Don’t like beer. I think I’ll
do without, mm, mm EOS Don’t like beer at all. No. What are local
people like? The people where I live- well they’re all very nice
really, it’s quite quiet, but it’s a- it’s such a good area, I mean
the house is up for sale, I can’t imagine why nobody buys it. Because
it’s such a super spot to be, you’ve got the railway, you’ve got-. mm,
everything’s to hand isn’t it, yes EOS Everything’s at hand, you’ve
got sports centres, you’ve got swimming pools, golf courses. You can
get into Manchester so quickly, and you can get onto the M- sixty-
sixty two, sixty-one, fifty six, in ten minutes. mm, I think you’re
better placed than I am, in Irlam, because the buses are about-
they’re supposed to be every ten minutes but they’re not EOS and
there’s only really one into Manchester. And there’s another one that
goes through Manchester into the Trafford centre, or the Trafford
centre into Manchester. And they’re about the only two. Yes and the-
the thing about the Trafford centre is- it- I didn’t like it when it
was first built, I thought it would kill off all the sho- local shops,
which it did. But I do enjoy going and I go at least twice a week. And
I don’t particularly buy erm, but I c- if I want to, everything’s
there. You can, yeah, yeah EOS I’ll just go because it’s very nice
inside and you can have a nice coffee and a cake on a morning. In John
Lewis, yes, mm EOS Yes. And er- and I do quite enjoy going and it’s
just so quick to get there and to park and-. It is, it’s no problem.
It’s just no problem, so that’s a great advantage to this area to me.
I’ve never been into Manchester for years and I don’t think I ever
will really. I’ve got- There’s nothing there for me. Well I go into
Manchester erm, normally every Thursday to meet two friends I used to
work with many years ago at ICI. Oh right. Yes, yes EOS And then I
meet another friend every other week on a Wednesday, that I used to
work with at ICI. So but normally I park in Marks and Spencers and
then on a Thursday have lunch in Marks, just a sandwich. One friend
moans the whole of the time EOS about the quality and the standard and
the noise, cos it is noisy in Marks and Spencers. Now if that
particular friend doesn’t come, er **anon** and I will go EOS which is
erm an Austrian patisserie. Ooh you should see the cakes! Mm, very
nice. Oh lovely. Erm then when I go with **anon** we go to the
**anon**. Where you can have a three course lunch for six pounds
fifty. And I might walk through the Arndale centre EOS erm, couple of
times recently I have had a bit of a walk round the Arndale but I’ve
been looking for specific shops. And there everything seems that
little bit bigger EOS than in the Trafford centre. Trafford centre,
yes. And on Sunday, **anon** and I and **anon** we’d taken **anon**
back to w- erm the station, erm we went into EOS the Arndale and I
think- I can’t remember what we were looking for. But I was surprised,
it was a Sunday and I was able to park in Marks and Spencers car park.
It’s not cheap, parking in- and it does add- it adds to me lunch when
I go. I used to go on the bus. But you get on the bus and then there’s
these girls that get on with EOS dripping in cheap jewellery, not a
ring in sight, and oh. If smoking was allowed they’d be EOS I’m not a
snob EOS but you know, you do have certain standards don’t you? I
think it’s the way we were brought up Maureen **anon**, respect. In
those days. Yeah. Yes probably. You respected your teachers and- and
we went to church and Sunday school, didn’t we? Yes we did. We
certainly did. And then the pictures after church on a Sunday night
sometimes, the EOS When you think about it. mm, yes we used to go on
to the pictures after we’d been to church. mm. And we’d done our duty,
hadn’t we? we’d been to church. Well, definitely! Yes those were the
days. But I think, I remember it being more difficult for food,
clothes and everything else after nineteen forty five. Because that’s
when it was really difficult, when they put bread on rationing. That
was awful. Yes because rationing went on for quite some time, didn’t
it? It went to about fifty two I think. Yes it went on for some time.
But it went worse- I don’t think we probably got the help from America
that we’d had during the war. Or thought we were going to get. yeah I
think so, mm. Because there was the air base in Warrington wasn’t
there? Burtonwood EOS Yes. The Americans, mm. erm and I know a friend
of my auntie’s went out with one of the EOS and er- he used to take to
erm **anon**, girlfriend, loads of sweets EOS So you know we had
sweets. in that way. But it was a long time before things were really
back to normal. Anything like- well, above- above the counter. And on
show, everything was under the counter. Nothing was on show. No food
was on show. And I know we had a chicken nearly ever week and it was a
friend of my granddad’s and me dad’s, used to get these live chickens
EOS and they were in Pendleton, and I had to go on the bus and bring
back EOS Dead chicken, was it plucked? Alive Maureen **anon**! Oh you
didn’t! And I’d no choice, I had to do it. How did you carry it? It
used to be in a bag, and EOS I’d be sitting on the bus, terrified in
case it made a noise. Our **anon** would say that he did it, but if he
did it, I don’t remember. It was me, because I was the eldest. He
might have come on the odd occasion to keep me company. But in the
main, it was me. So we always had-. Can I ask you, did you eat any of
it when you got home? Oh once me mum had killed it and cleaned it and
everything. And prepared it, oh EOS And it- mainly boiling . And she
used to make beautiful chicken soup. And erm our **anon** always had
the best of the chicken. And me mum would hide it under his rice, so
that **anon** and I couldn’t see it. Really? Oh that’s not right at
all is it? But that’s how it was, he got the best. It was, yes, he
did. And er- I mean we laugh about it, and the thing is, although we
know that he was in a way favoured, it never, has never- Any animosity
between you. There’s never been any jealousy among us. Between the
five of us, at all really. mm, mm, my mother lived on a farm, erm, and
my grandfather was a EOS Which was- it- you know he- he rented and he
worked for the farmer and it was in Warrington, cos he came down all
the way from the Lake District, how they got down I’ve no idea. No, no
motorways. But they always- no and they were on this farm called
**anon**, which is still there in- in Warrington, Daresbury actually.
And my mother went to school at Daresbury village. And erm she said
that my father- my grandfather always had- if they had an egg, they
only got the top off the egg, and gra- and her father got the whole
egg. Cos he was the working- he was working. and he was providing. And
she said there was ce- there were- there were lots of vegetables, and
she said, ‘he never took anything that wasn’t his’. And she said, ‘we
could’ve lived really well if he’d just- taken a few of these veggies
and brought them home.’ EOS Yeah, vegetables, mm EOS But he never did.
Never took anything that wasn’t theirs they were so EOS Mm, then they
went back of course, went back to erm-. The Lake District. Yes went
back to Ulverston, mm EOS mm, I was looking at the Lake District on
the telly the other night, erm- did you watch it? Yes, yes I did
actually, I’d seen it before. Yes, I’ve seen it before but I watched
it again. Erm and I thought, ‘oh we did have some nice little breaks
up in the lake district.’ EOS Yes. My cousin that still lives there,
erm her grandson is erm- well his girlfriend, who lives on **anon**,
which is the island that nobody’s- mmhmm, yes, in the middle bit EOS
I’ve often wondered if anybody lived there. yes, it’s a beautiful
house EOS Is it, mm, mm EOS It’s the **anon** that have got that. The
people who had the insurance company, **anon** insurance company. And
they bought the island and they live there. And this is their
daughter. And she swam the English channel about two weeks ago. For
charity, yes. She’s a st- I think she’s a student now, I- I th- - I’m
not sure whether- she’s got two grandsons, and I’m not sure whether
this particular grandson is the one that’s living locally in
Manchester, come down from the Lake District erm cos there are two of
them and I do get them confused and they’re both at university, or one
has EOS mm, mm, yes, yeah. But this girlfriend, yeah she swam the
English channel. Yes. swam the channel. Cos she- she let me know the
other week about it, yeah. mm, what about hat older lady swimming it?
And kept going off course? Oh did she, I’ve no- I didn’t see that.
Yeah and I’ve forgot- I’ve forgotten how long it took her, but she did
it. But it took her hours and hours. The English Channel? Hours and
hours and hours. You’ve got the jellyfish problem with the English
Channel. haven’t you, really? Mm, No it was nice, watching the Lake
District, yes EOS Yes very beautiful if it’s not raining. Ooh, the
very first time we went on the Friday afternoon, it was raining so
hard. ‘Oh what have we done, why have we come?’ But then Saturday and
Sunday it was glorious. mm, mm, beautiful, mm EOS Mm, they’ve had very
bad weather this last winter. Mm with the snow and everything. Yes a
lot of- yes, yeah and rain. I mean that’s why I can’t understand the
reservoirs being so low. When we’ve had so much snow. My cousin, when
she was telling me about these- this er grandson’s girlfriend. Erm she
said, ‘oh you wouldn’t believe how low they are.’ She said, ‘we’ve
been out and we’ve been looking and they’re extremely EOS I know when
we used to drive over to Harrogate erm on the M-sixty- two, we always
looked at one reservoir, ‘oh it’s a bit low this y- this week.’ EOS Do
you know the one I mean? Yeah, yeah I go that way. Yes and er we’d be
sort of, ‘oh there’s going to be a water EOS our **anon** had to defy
the hosepipe ban before. He what, sorry? Had to defy the hosepipe ban.
Because our **anon** got all dog’s poo on EOS And so he had to swill
them down. Did he? I hope this is not being used in evidence against
him EOS for a thousand pounds. I never thought about that EOS mm, well
I mean, I use my hosepipe to fill my watering can and my gra- my son-
in-law said, ‘you can’t do that it’s illegal.’ I said, ‘rubbish. It
can’t be illegal.’ But I’ll tell you one thing. This hosepipe ban is
so ridiculous cos you waste more money- sorry more EOS In a watering
can. Well I think so, Maureen **anon** too. Because you’re being- it’s
pouring out and EOS and if it was coming out as a spray EOS and a
shower, it would go into the flowers and everything quicker. But it’s
just going over the tops and- and going on the- one the road. On the
pavements. I think it’s worse. I think it’s silly. Mm, I do. Yes, but
still. I can understand them saying the hosepipe ban for washing cars
at EOS Well at home but what about these- but you can still- can you
still take them to the-? Oh yes you can still take them to these
places. Places to have them cleaned. Oh right, right. I didn’t realise
that. I mean the gardeners that I have, **anon** said that he’d looked
it up on the erm internet EOS and it was so complicated, what you
could, what you couldn’t do, oh yes, yes, that in the end, he gave up.
United utilities saying one thing, somebody else saying something
else, and he thought, ‘just don’t get it.’ EOS mmhmm, mm, no. Well my-
I’ve got one hanging basket, beautiful EOS because it’s rained on it
and the other one is slightly under the EOS at the front door and it’s
dead. And **anon** never bothered watering it. So I’ve had to get it
down and just let the tap run on it, so that’s wasted a lot of water.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Today, whether it will revive, I don’t think it
will. mm, c- It will, it will cos they said to me on Tuesday, I said,
‘I know what you’re going to say,’ I said, ‘well you see it has rained
so I thought to myself ‘I don’t need to water them,’ EOS But you still
need to water them, so-. Oh gosh you do because it doesn’t get
through. It only stays on the top. Hmm, how are we doing? temporarily. This is marked within the transcription. difficult to
hear during this time EOS one, two, three, four, five EOS one, two,
three EOS why is your sister well mad? cos you know the way she went
EOS to- from the petrol station EOS do you know who lives there? oh
never mind now EOS you’re so awkward, and- thanks it’s **anon** innit
EOS that’s why I didn’t wanna EOS so d- that’s weird, why did she
drive past his house then? I think she wanted to be nosey, to be
honest EOS have a quick look EOS quick look, see what he’s going on
EOS I can’t believe she w- that’s what she wears to the gym EOS
they’re my shorts EOS do you know the ones that I wore under my fancy
dress stuff EOS they’re my shorts EOS which fancy dress stuff? like,
the ones that I just wear under any fancy dress stuff, like, whatever
I need yeah, so she wears that- that’s why she loves the free tops,
that’s why she wanted a free top from wherever EOS yeah that’d’ve been
cool, she’s obsessed, weirdo, I can’t believe you didn’t go the gym
EOS sorry, I thought she would’ve woken me up if we were gonna go to
the gym EOS I thought you did actually wake you up EOS she woke me up
and asked me for her- your Mum’s number EOS why would y- I don’t even
know, and I was like, ‘no, I don’t have it’, and then EOS yeah, you do
EOS I know, but then I realised I did, I was like, ‘there you go’, and
then I went back to sleep EOS why did she want my Mum’s number? plus,
I couldn’t’ve even gone to the gym, I had my boots with me and I had
nothing EOS I told you, sister’s got shoes, she would’ve found
something to fit EOS well, if she wanted to go that badly, I would’ve
gone with her, but EOS and now she’s going on an empty stomach EOS
with a bit of lamb in her EOS eurgh, that lamb wasn’t as good this
morning smelling, I microwaved EOS it’s well fatty in the morning
though EOS she’ll be having lunch again EOS yeah, yeah, lunch, it’s
called Sunday lunch isn’t it EOS it’s that lamb that we had last time
so we have to cook EOS the lamb chops? The one that mush- the onio-
lamb steak thing EOS yeah, the one EOS one where the onions were too
chunky EOS and, what- I dunno what else you complained about, but,
yeah, all EOS I only complained about the onions EOS no, you
complained about something else as well EOS no, it wasn’t the
mushrooms- I don’t even know what we had I can’t remember now EOS we
had ratatouille EOS oh aye, you just- potatoes and lamb sweet potato
thingy, thingy EOS yeah, yeah, yeah, that we spent all- most of the
afternoon making and then you just- and the rice pudding EOS mmm, rice
pudding, mmm EOS bit of that, bit of that we should EOS d- do you
think **anon** really made at me? it sounded like she was, you know
EOS when I- when I said about her being married and she was like,
‘yeah’, cos seeing someone EOS three times a week is like being
married, but I was like, ‘oh, shh’ EOS well how often does she wanna
see her? I think we should go round and see **anon** this week EOS
what, and keep him company? cos he’ll be dying without her EOS mm well
what else is- I swear to God he most probably the boringest person
this week anyway you got an eyelash EOS sh- she won’t be, sh- she’ll
just be winding you up, I think if she’s that mad she would’ve text
you EOS I swear they see each other, they see each other twice at the
EOS she’s always down there EOS standing isn’t it EOS is yeah man EOS
don’t know what to say EOS okay what’s your least fav- so why’s
**anon** coming round anyway? why is **anon** coming round, **anon**
coming round because he’s cutting his cousin’s hair, the one that’s
like got something wrong with her EOS and like, she can’t do-
something wrong with her? yeah, she’s got this like, I don’t know if
it’s a disease, as such EOS but it’s one of those things where you
cons- like, she’s constantly tired, like, she’ll get up for like an
hour, and then she’ll need to go back to bed and she can’t do her last
year of Uni or EOS how does she cope? because of it EOS well, she
doesn’t, she was meant to come and get her hair cut yesterday, and
then she had to rearrange for three o’clock today, I think she’s been
sleeping since yesterday, ‘til today so she can EOS there was a
programme on TV about that, about sleeping beauty, and she sleeps like
three weeks and she missed all her GCSE re- exams and then she woke up
for her prom, and like there’s nothing you can do, there’s nothing you
can take, yeah it was on BBC iPlayer EOS yeah, eventually it’s just
meant to like, wear off or something, but, she’s dead weird anyway
she’s like a d- you think everyone’s weird EOS no, she’s like a dead
bohemian weirdo EOS like a hippy EOS she used to have big hair, like,
that she just didn’t wash and just EOS and it was like blonde, and it
was like, out like this EOS bit like Amy Winehouse EOS yeah, so
anyway, carry on, well that’s what- and then, oh yeah, so erm, he’s
left all his kit bag here from when he did my Mum’s hair on Saturday
EOS cause he decided to go out, so EOS why doesn’t your Mum like her
hair, I like it EOS no, she likes it now, she came back from the
hairdressers, and she was like, ‘there’s too much blonde in it’ EOS I
can’t believe you told her EOS I can, erm EOS she was like, ‘there’s
too much blonde in it’, but I said to her, ‘ooh, I don’t know if I
like it there’s quite a lot of blonde in it’ then she hated it, then
she was like, ‘there’s too much blonde in it’ she was like, ‘will you
get **anon** to put some’- she’s only got in her fringe and EOS yeah,
no, but she had like twice the amount of that blonde, all like here,
just there, none at the back EOS so has **anon** done it again?
**anon** just put a semi permanent dye on some of the blonde bits, to
dye them the brown colour EOS yeah, it looks nice now, so EOS what’s
her natural colour? she’s not that old EOS if she grew her hair out it
would be grey EOS it’s not that old EOS her hair all grows through
grey EOS yeah it does EOS no, she’s not as old as my Mum EOS her
natural colour’s like as dark as mine though, there’s a picture, erm,
of her and all her sisters- yeah, but that’s not your natural hair
colour EOS no, but my natural hair colour- but erm, there’s a picture
of her and all her sisters, like, together, and my Aun- my Grandma had
this thing, that if you were a child and you had short hair, you’d
have lovely hair when you, erm, old, she’s- when you’re older, like,
and she’s Irish and she’s a weirdo, so that’s what she thought she was
like, ‘ooh, you’ll have beautiful hair’ EOS when it grows, so erm,
they all had a mushroom haircut, apart from my **anon**, cos she had
curly hair- what’s a mushroom haircut? like, when it’s like that EOS
oh, I know, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah EOS so did I when I was like
five though EOS so there’s these pictures of- oh yeah, the pictures-
there’s these pictures when erm, my Mum and like all her sisters are
kids, in black and white pictures, all in dresses, one with curly
hair, the rest all with mushroom hair cuts, my cousin **anon** walks
past going, ‘why’s **anon** in a black and white picture in a dress?’
EOS yeah, it’s the same colour as mine though, actually, yeah, I can’t
believe y-your Mum’s hair grows grey, you’re winding me up about that
EOS no, it doesn’t EOS it does, that’s why she has to have blonde in
her hair EOS no, she doesn’t, she’s not as old as my Mum EOS how old’s
your Mum? f- forty eight EOS my Mum’s forty seven EOS I think that’s
how old my Mum- I dunno- dunno I don’t do Maths EOS why have you drawn
a tee-shirt with ‘wet’ written on in it EOS cause you’re the song from
‘Wet’ Nico- yeah, that’s the one EOS it’s from that EOS oh, it’s a bit
windy EOS do you want me to shut the door? okay EOS so what- yeah, so
EOS describe your least favourite teacher EOS your least favourite one
EOS yeah, if you want from college from college EOS it’s gotta be
**anon** EOS no the one that we- yeah, the one we had from kitchen
last year EOS he came into my work the other day EOS walked in, I was
setting- I was setting all the tables up, and I went into the harness
room and looked, and **anon** one of the chefs is like, sat down like,
writing stuff, and then I’m looking and it’s **anon** bloody **anon**,
I’m like, ‘oh my God, what is he doing here’ EOS but then I realised,
**anon** doing an- he’s one of the chefs, but he’s doing an
apprenticeship with **anon** and he had **anon**- erm, no, he had
**anon** EOS and he had, erm, whats-his-name grey hair **anon** he had
**anon** and **anon** EOS ahh, **anon** ace EOS erm, for like his
lessons, but then **anon** comes every month and asks him like, what’s
he’s done and he has to do all this different cooking stuff and he’s
like, ‘have you done that?’, and **anon** like, ‘no’, and he’s like,
‘oh, I’ll just sign it off EOS he- he has got to be the worst teacher
EOS so then he- he comes up to me and he’s like, ‘so how- is this
where you’ve been hanging out?’ EOS , ‘have you handed all your work
in?’, and I was like, ‘yes’, erm, and I was like what was he going on
about? he was talking about some rubbish- ah, do you know **anon**
that came into our thingy when we had EOS he came back to thingy and
we swear he’s like got the sack cos he’s always in work now EOS what,
he’s working with you again? no he’s still like , but yeah EOS so why
do you hate **anon**? cause he’s just knob EOS giving all them sheets
in the last week of college, swear to God didn’t need it EOS didn’t
need it did we EOS no, because technically he should’ve gave that
sheet to us, evaluation sheet each week we had him EOS well, he didn’t
though did he EOS he’s just a knobhead EOS well, I told you he was -
I’ll always remember- whenever I think about **anon** I’ll always
think of that time when he was writing on the board EOS excuse me,
sorry EOS was writing on the board and th- the higher and higher he
EOS ahh, the arse EOS tops coming out and you can just see more and
more of his arse, everyone’s like, ‘urgh’ EOS oh my God EOS and it’s
like, ‘**anon**, why are you looking?’ EOS **anon**, I wonder what she
got, bet she got treble distinction EOS do you think? Yeah, probably
EOS mm should find her on- in facebook EOS but yeah, why who’s yours?
I didn’t really- well yeah, **anon** probably from college EOS mmm,
**anon** alright, **anon** was sound EOS **anon** was weird sometimes
though, don’t you think? like, she’d go in a mood over like stupid
things EOS yeah, but she had problems at home Alan **anon**, don’t be
tight EOS yeah, but she EOS her best mate was like dying of cancer EOS
yeah, but she did often go in moods and stuff EOS if you said stuff
or- she never went in a mood with me, she did go in a mood in a
restaurant though when we EOS yeah she always seemed to take things
too personal, as well sometimes **anon** but my wor- my actual worst
teacher I think about when it- it’s gotta be **anon** from school
when- she’s from **anon** and she’s got like the strongest accent
ever, erm, she had a baby, and she was like- we were like, ‘what’ve
you called your baby?’ and she’s like, ‘**anon**’ , ‘oh, great’, and
then erm, she got married and then we weren’t sure if her name,
because she couldn’t say ‘haitches', we weren’t sure if her name was
**anon** or **anon** for like a year EOS why couldn’t she say
‘haitches’? cause she was that common EOS sounding she used to call
**anon** all time- **anon** on away- he’s away EOS she used to speak
to **anon**, and erm, she’d call him **anon** and sh- he’d be like, ‘’
all the time and she’d- I think she used to do it on purpose, say
words with ‘haitches’ EOS and she used to go, ‘do you want a chuffty
badge?’ when- if you thought, like, if you got something right or you
were proud of yourself or something EOS why would you want a chuffty
badge? and she used to actually make them like, if you were doing
something like, creative, like ‘do a title page for your book’ she’d
get like stickers out and make a chuffty badge, like EOS oh I see EOS
‘here’s your chuffty badge’ EOS mm do you reckon who I’ll always
remember from college EOS **anon**? ah, that beasty EOS she’s- sh- she
had baby didn’t she? she got it took off her EOS are you surprised?
ah, she hated me EOS she loved me EOS she hated me for a passion EOS
‘I’m going to the Trafford Centre to meet my someone special’, like, I
think it was the jogging pants that did it for me EOS that arse and
then, who was it- **anon** that they always used to wind- wind him up
about like, ‘is **anon** your someone special?’, like, ‘no, my someone
special’s called **anon**’ like, oh God EOS the one that you were
partners with in **anon** and didn’t know his EOS for ages, and then
bumped into him in **anon** and like, ‘who’s that- who’s that’ I was
like, ‘**anon**’ you’re like, ‘ooh aye’ EOS and the one that- the one
that works at **anon** EOS does he actually work at the **anon**? He
does EOS well, he did, anyway, but so did that **anon**, you know the
pregnant EOS oh aye, she hated me EOS I think in the first year she
did, second years EOS I’ll always remember her though when she was at
**anon** when she was made partners with **anon**, cos **anon** had a
bad back, and she was pregnant, so the two of them couldn’t do
anything really EOS yeah, put them two together EOS yeah she was sick
wasn’t she, and she hurt her back or EOS ahh, **anon** was well pissed
off with her there EOS well, you would be EOS didn’t she stay in the
first one like, in the bus all day EOS yeah she worked for like an
hour and then stayed in the EOS I remember you dragging me to get some
food like, ‘Nadine **anon**, you need to eat, you’re gonna eat now’
EOS oh yeah, cos you didn’t eat all day EOS no, I didn’t eat the whole
first day EOS no, it was disgusting that place EOS I don’t think I
could cope being a runner, seeing the kitchen EOS eurgh, the lunches
were horrible there, whenever I think about- why would you pay like,
nearly hundred and something quid f- the buffet was alright but, it
was just the bloody- we never had the buffet in ours then EOS oh yeah,
you didn’t get it did you EOS that was on the spinny things innit EOS
it was the erm, thingy though, the erm four cheese and mayonnaise
sandwiches, I was like, eurgh, not eating that EOS I wouldn’t mind but
you didn’t even have hot water most of the time, that coffee- coffee
was minging EOS I remember serving coffee and it’s just so rank EOS
the cakes were good there but then there was that bitchy chef that
always used to come over and be like, ‘you can’t save all the cakes’,
like, ‘well, we don’t wanna save all of them, but we’re not gonna
chuck them all away, people are hungry’ EOS ‘people aren’t gonna’
chefs are well mean EOS our chefs are mean at work, but yeah, they get
away with murder as EOS chefs can just be mean at times, can’t they?
yeah, can’t they EOS I’m not a chef EOS no, you just stand there and
look pretty EOS you do though EOS oh, I’ll have to be a chef on
Wednesday though EOS gutted not coming to your kitchen I might come
and EOS and you’ll be like, ‘ahh, is this Nadine **anon**?’ EOS it’s
so annoying, they’ll- and they’ll probably ask me like, ‘is there this
and this’, I’ll be like, ‘I don’t know’, some woman came up to me
yesterday and w- well, not yesterday the other day when I was really,
really busy, the only one behind the hot plate, and she was like this,
‘can I just ask you a few questions about the ingredients?’, I was
like, ‘in a minute’ EOS Alan **anon**, Alan **anon**, Alan **anon**,
you already told me this last EOS even though you can’t remember the
conversation we had I can EOS what when she g- the one that couldn’t
have tomatoes, yeast or EOS yeah and then there was one about peppers,
and she was allergic EOS and then she’d EOS just peppers, which is
weird EOS yeah, but she asked you about the red and- red and green EOS
green, but she’s actually allergic to all of them EOS yeah, ‘any red
or green peppers in it?’ ‘no’, ‘what about the other colours?’ I was
like, ‘why don’t you ask me if there’s any peppers in it?’ EOS
standard yeah, just cos you can’t remember EOS oh, it’s getting warm
in here again EOS do you want me to open the door? it’s the brightness
I think EOS windy though isn’t it pretty windy EOS erm, what do you
remember from your first day of school? erm, from the very first day?
your very first day EOS remember having take- picture taken at the
front door EOS have you not seen my pictures? I remember my blazer was
like three times- sizes too big for me EOS you had a blazer? I had a
black blazer EOS eurgh, minging I wore my summer dress the first day
EOS in year seven? oh, in year seven? I thought you meant like primary
school EOS I don’t- oh, I remember hiding behind my Mum’s coat in
primary school EOS she had a big long coat, and I didn’t wanna say hi
to anyone, so I lifted the coat up and stood under it EOS you pussy I
remember when high school, there was like the bikes and erm, my
sister’s like, ‘right, wait there’ EOS ten past three, ‘don’t move
until I’m here, wait there Nadine **anon** wait there’ I went, ‘okay’
and then I met **anon** and then we walked round and saw like all our
chum mates and that was it EOS and we used to all get lost as a four,
just to be late to lesson, I remember on the second day, erm, of
school we had PE EOS I remember in the first day of year two I was-
told my Mum she didn’t need to come and pick me up again, I’m walking
home and my Mum never p- walked to school pick me up ever again so
yeah, it wasn’t that far really from me house, it was quite far
actually for year twos EOS mm, mm, mm, mm EOS so why is **anon**
coming round apart from pick the bag up? just to pick the stuff up EOS
oh, so you’re not staying? we’ve gotta- he’s cutting her hair at three
o’clock and he’ll have to be quick or she’ll fall asleep EOS can’t she
just like fall asleep and then you just do it EOS that’d be a bit
dangerous someone trying to cut their hair EOS imagine if she started
sleep walking like that guy EOS ahhh, that guy was mank, I swear we’re
gonna watch that on EOS I wanna see it EOS ahh, no, did I tell you
about **anon** getting told off from the CTV EOS hot plate, **anon**-
sprawled out across the thingy, right **anon** was like showing it to
**anon**, **anon** comes in cos we’re like laying up the chalet, and
**anon** goes, ‘who’s this, who’s this?’ and I was ‘oh, that was
**anon** before on the hot plate’, **anon** went ape shit at him,
honest to God, it was so funny EOS why’s **anon** getting involved
though? cause **anon** came into see us cos she’s been away, and she’s
like missed them, so she came into see us all, and then she was like,
‘right, what’s the goss’ and then she went to **anon** and **anon**
was like, ‘ah, come and have a look at this, come what **anon** did’ I
wouldn’t mind, but he only came in at eight, and then he ha- he was
like sprawled across, and **anon** was like, ‘I wouldn’t mind but you
didn’t even go out last night’ EOS ‘don’t agree to breakfast if you
couldn’t’ he was the one who got us into trouble with the customers,
apparently we’re moody people and we don’t wanna be here so EOS the
other week, well, no, this week, erm, some woman came into work and
erm, she was speaking to **anon** and was like, ‘right, so, what we
want is, we want the erm, late lunch’ and she was like, ‘I don’t know
if the late lunch is on today actually’ and then she was like, ‘well,
it’s outside’ and so then she was like- what’s a late lunch? the late-
it’s just a menu that we do when the regular lunches come off, we do a
late lunch, so, they do t- like, cos they normally don’t do stuff to
order, they do shepherds pie EOS scampi, and erm, sticky mango
chicken- so it’s a bit like a buffet EOS no, cos they cook it f- like,
to order EOS and you get it brought over to you and everything, so,
but the main lunch was still out, so she goes and asks if they’re
doing it, and then erm, she was like he said something like, erm, ‘we
won’t be doing it until like, half three’ or something, then she was
like, ‘right, can we order it now, and come back’ or something and
then she was like, ‘right, we want two child’s portions of the EOS she
goes, ‘well, we can’t do child’s portions of the shepherds pie’ she’s
like, ‘why?’, ‘they’re already portioned up in an adults portion, and
they’re that price, and it doesn’t say anywhere that we can do a
child’s portion’ and she’s like, ‘well, we want child’s portions, this
is absolutely ridiculous’ so she’s basically on one, she’s having a go
at erm, **anon** then like, wouldn’t stop, I don’t know what even she
was saying to her, I kind of looked over at her, and then in the end
she was like, ‘it’s not very good, you’re loosing five customers here
that nanana’ EOS and going on with herself, in the end she walks out,
I turned to **anon** and said, ‘are you alright?’ like this, and then
she smiles and kind of goes, ‘yeah’ and kind of like laughed it off,
but kind of just to say, ‘yeah, it’s fine’, the woman comes back like,
thirty seconds later, ‘I don’t think it’s right that you’re laughing
at us as soon as we leave’, I was like, ‘excuse me, we weren’t
laughing at her, I asked her if she was alright’, and she was like,
‘no, I don’t think it’s very funny, you’re laughing at us and we’re
walking away, you’re- this EOS what was that? mm EOS yeah, think so
EOS I’m just gonna carry on anyway EOS yeah, carry on EOS so what else
did she say EOS she just said that really EOS didn’t she walked away
and you laughed again? yeah, then she walked away, and no-one even
realised EOS well you- to be fair, you were laughing EOS no, we
weren’t laughing, I asked her if she was alright, because EOS it was
quite personal the way that she was saying to her, like, ‘w- why- what
are you’ she kept saying to her, ‘what are you gonna do EOS and she
was like, ‘there’s nothing I can do about it’ and in the end she- I
thought that she’d just leave it, the woman, and erm, erm, **anon**
thought that **anon** or **anon** would step in and say something to
her, but they didn’t even know what was going on, we had to say it to
**anon** later on, oh, it was ridiculous it’s EOS you’re so mean, I’m
a good girl when I’m in EOS what are local people like in **anon**?
shit, I don’t speak to them EOS I hate **anon**, with a passion EOS
what’s wrong with it? it’s just not right, you know it’s not right
can’t bel- believe my Mum kicked off about it erm, you know when
**anon** said, at EOS ahh, cos Mum- Mum said something about the house
being up, and **anon** goes ‘oh, you moving?’ EOS and sh- sh- Mum
goes, ‘yeah’, and then I went, ‘yeah’ and **anon** like, ‘oh, where do
you wanna move round- round here again?’ and she goes, ‘aye, don’t
you?’ and then you said something, and you were like, ‘I couldn’t turn
back time’ and it’s like, ‘if we could turn back time’ EOS and then
your Mum was like, ‘yeah’ and I was like, ‘bloody hell, it’s starting
now’, can’t believe she said it she knows I wouldn’t EOS wouldn’t have
moved from here? you know me EOS at least they’re not like in bred in
**anon** EOS at least they’re not in bred in **anon** EOS cos they’re
all in bred in **anon** apparently EOS oh yeah, it’s ‘nine’ EOS it’s
what **anon** was doing when he took the piss out of EOS yeah, I’ll
just shut up now EOS it’d be slightly funny if you could do it EOS
what? pr- pr- pr- problem is right, **anon** was trying to do it again
and it wasn’t funny EOS it had- it was like one of them moment ones
where it had to be there, it’s like, carry on from the conversation,
isn’t it, innit EOS but yeah just cos you’re dead posh round here EOS
you are posh, told you you’re posh EOS everyone’s posh to you that
isn’t like, you basically EOS yeah anyone’s posh that- that can read
EOS you can read, you just can’t read well EOS and you get confused
EOS you can’t, you- you say it EOS I said that you can’t read well EOS
oh right, okay EOS what do you and your family do in your free time
when you were EOS we used to stay in each others room and not talk EOS
standard, isn’t it EOS that’s not- just sit in each others rooms and
just not talk? just not talk EOS no, cos you used to do stuff with
**anon** EOS yeah, that was different EOS well, what did you used to
do with **anon**? I used to play on the playstation, but, you know,
got bit of obsessed EOS used to take him to the park EOS yeah, and
then break me arm EOS well, you know I was never in when I was a kid I
was always out tea on the go micro-chips EOS what did you- I thought,
no, I didn’t think you played on the playstation, I thought it was
that woman that used to come and visit EOS yeah, night port thing,
night care yeah but what are y- who- are you meant to kept him
entertained through the day? your Mum did a lot EOS my Mum like looked
after him, I just kept him entertained EOS oh, guess so EOS I didn’t
do anything, the only thing I did was give him a drink now EOS and
then like spill it over himself I remember trying putting his coat on
once, it was so funny, I so just like laughed all- for most of the
day, Mum goes, ‘you not ready yet?’, and I went, ‘no, can’t put his
coat on’. We had a moveable bed, and you know how they can rise, well,
my brothers could actually go right up to the ceiling EOS did he ever
put it all the way up? what did your Mum say? my Mum wasn’t very happy
with me EOS what, with you? Why, did you do it to her? no, we’re both
on it EOS and we go, ‘let’s see how high it could go’, we didn’t
realise it EOS but it got stuck, like, we couldn’t move EOS so we were
all, ‘oh, I’ll have to jump off’, and Mum goes, ‘you dare jump off’,
‘can’t get it down Mum, can’t get it down’, she goes, ‘yeah, you can’,
okay so, yeah, we got it down in eventually EOS but you know, like,
when you go right to the top, and then it was just like yeah EOS can
we pause it at all? I don’t- erm, yeah, okay, wait 28.30 – Recording
paused – continues on in soundfile EOS two, three, four, five EOS one,
two, three, four, five EOS come on, mine EOS yeah, man I don’t like- I
don’t want about school EOS yeah, great, that’s fantastic EOS I’m
bored, thanks EOS what games did you like playing as a kid? the lying
down game No left channel EOS the lying down game, can’t believe it’s
used to call EOS no, I never played it as th- the lying down game,
plankey EOS I don’t know what EOS I can’t believe- I know my cousins
used to always play, erm, we had two but they were basically the same
game but they had different names, one of them we called, erm, was
‘pizza planet’, and one of them was ‘cool kids’, and they were
basically our own, erm, takeaway, fast food place EOS Is that why you
got into hospitality Alan **anon**? I don’t actually know, but it’s a
bit weird, cos we used to like pretend that we had, the- erm, like,
frying the chips, and you used to, erm, have buttons to do the drinks
and stuff EOS that is sad bastards EOS and, erm, used to have wh- I
don’t know what those things are called, but you know those boards
where you like write on them, and then you can just wipe it off- no,
it’s not like a white board, erm- no, it’s like the grey stuff- yeah,
one of them, I think EOS is that not- me hairs all knotty now EOS erm,
yes I think it was an electrasketch EOS erm, so and we used to like
write ‘cool kids’ on it and do like smiley faces and stuff, and stick
it on the door, and we’re like, ‘this is our restaurant’ EOS did you
not have any of your mates, so you had to hang round with EOS I used
to go to my cousins every Saturday EOS where’s the pencil? don’t know
why, but we used to do it all the time Left channel resumes EOS oh
well all the ti- and then we’d go to Drama on Sunday as well EOS erm
what games did you used to play as a kid? I used to be a chef with my
Nan, used to make her sit there, you know the old newspapers, used to
roll the cutlery in that cos my Nan never used to have napkins, and I
used to like take her order, used to have like a little apron out-
made out of a tea towel, and I used to like make- tell her to sit
there and she used to have to proper like pretend she was eating, I’m
like, ‘right Nan, you’ve finished that now’ ‘on to-’ EOS ‘on to that’
yeah, used to have all like her frying pans out and stuff and like,
yeah, ‘I’m cooking Nan’ she’s like, ‘what am I eating?’ EOS I was
like, ‘dunno, just make it up as you go along’ EOS ‘you can decide
what you’re eating’ EOS ‘it’s up to you’ hmm EOS erm, I dunno, it was
always school or home I remember EOS yeah, it’s really hard to think
about what you used to play as a kid EOS we used to play shoe
competition on the swings EOS yeah, where you- where you sh- kick your
shoes off on the swing EOS could never do that, I always used to tie
my laces EOS oh my God, get a grip EOS ah no, cos you know like at the
park they’ve got like- you’ve got that spider web haven’t you? and
then they’ve got the like fence haven’t they? My sister could get it
over that fence, that’s a bowling green of course, so it’s old biddies
that own it EOS so they used to kick off every time my sister you
like, played, ‘can I have me shoe back please’ EOS was that at
**anon**? yeah man, back in the day back in the day EOS I dunno,
always used to play with my brother we just used to- on the
playstation? no used to just have a ride around, holding his
wheelchair with rollerblades on EOS rollerblades, used to be mint
weren’t it EOS what, so you’d wear your rollerblades and hold onto
his- hold onto the back EOS and then you’d just like standard innit
EOS you’re such a geek EOS I never played with me sister hardly EOS
don’t blame you EOS she always used to be round at **anon** house EOS
you didn’t wanna play with her in the gym EOS ah, so boring EOS I get
bored EOS that is my favourite thing, like, that’s happened in like,
years EOS when you were like ‘I’ve been to the gym, I need to eat’ EOS
I’m like, ‘why’, ‘I need to put back on the weight that I’ve burnt
off’ EOS that’s not the purpose of the gym, for EOS I only went to
keep her company, I didn’t say I needed to loose some weight problem
is, she got knackered before me EOS well, obviously you’re meant to be
at the gym then aren’t you? mm, well that’s what she said but I- how
can you just like do exercise for an hour and a half gets EOS go like
swimming or something keeps you more entertained EOS swimming’s not
that entertaining EOS how is it? Just looking at water EOS dunno,
don’t feel like you’re doing much EOS it’s entertaining when **anon**
swimming EOS have you not- have I not told you about how **anon**
swims? no, I thought we were going swimming today, see, we could’ve
gone EOS because you didn’t go to the gym EOS right, anyway when
**anon**- when **anon**- no, no, don’t change the subject EOS I was-
I- we were talking about this subject first, you changed the EOS yeah,
because you’re the one who said we could go swimming and EOS you’re
like, ‘ah no, I’m going to the-’ yeah I might tell my Mum to come
early and drag her swimming with us EOS right so **anon**- when
**anon** EOS that sounds like a plan done it EOS when **anon**
swimming EOS ahh, and the chips from that s- yeah, sorry EOS but-
yeah, the chips in **anon** make me always feel sick EOS ahh, they
used to be fit EOS cause of the smell from the- all the chlorine EOS
they’re fit, fit as, that used to be like, weekend, me and my sister,
that’s what I did with my sister, go swimming with the floats, and you
know if you had arm bands you weren’t allowed to go past like a EOS
did you ever put armbands on someone’s feet? **anon** nearly died, the
lifeguard goes, he was like, ‘take them off, you put armbands on your
feet, and you go like that, and as soon as you let go they go, pff,
like that and you go upside down EOS and they’re like stuck on your
ankles EOS so you can’t get them off either EOS which ones did you
have? Them blow-up ones that you couldn’t put on your arm like , and
you can ne- you’re a boy EOS yeah, no, they weren’t like EOS my bum’s
sore now EOS bought them cos they were pink, they were like the pink
ones that they sold there cos they had like yellow ones- do you
remember the rubber ring ones that you can get now EOS but anyway, as
I was saying, when **anon** swimming EOS like when we were on holiday,
he’ll like go in and he looks like- like he’s like, his neck’s like
this, like the water’s there EOS and- and- so he’s like this, and then
every now and again he’ll go under and he’ll be like spitting water
out, like, oh my God, and he constantly looks like he’s just going to
die EOS like he’s stand there, and he’s like- and he always grabs onto
people like, ‘’ and then EOS so as you as you get, like, when we’re on
holiday, he’ll like be drowning me and I’ll do like, that to him and-
can he not swim? he can swim, just about, like, with that EOS like,
dying, I’m like, ‘oh my God, you’re the worst swimmer ever’ EOS I bet
you’re not that good EOS I’m better than him anyway EOS I bet you’re
not that good did you used to go swimming in high EOS ‘til what age?
They’re meant to stop after the first two- two years EOS yeah, we only
did it in year seven- year five and year six, oh not in high school,
no, we never did it in high school EOS you didn’t do it in high
school? Jammy EOS no, we only did it in Primary EOS we had to do it
all the way to year, erm, eleven, it’s only cos people couldn’t swim
in our class EOS no, they seriously couldn’t, no-one could swim in our
class apart EOS it’s like, really bad, she’d right- ‘we’ll do front
crawl’, and we all had to like, be in the lanes cos, to like, our
class was that small we had one lane each EOS and no joke, she says,
‘do front crawl’, no one could do it, they’ll do doggy paddle, she’s
like, ‘ah, do backstroke’, everyone could do backstroke apart from the
ones who used to just kick their legs EOS yeah, I know, your arm- your
arms don’t really help with backstroke though, I don’t think EOS no, I
never see the point, and then erm, you just always wet your face and
stuff EOS the breaststroke cou- no-one could- everyone could do the
arms, but then they didn’t do the legs EOS right, they just like
kicked their legs, no, you don’t do, yeah EOS but if you don’t do your
legs right you co- it doesn’t work the same, cos you’re meant to glide
in the s- yeah EOS you see, yeah, I’m a geek really, and then erm
yeah, no-one could do butterfly apart from me, everyone used to stand
there and- the one where you go, pfff EOS never even done that in my
life EOS and you know that one that you’ve gotta lie on your back but
you’ve got to like go forward oh, okay EOS it’s like the, yeah, it is,
it’s like an unusual one, and then we used to have to spin all the way
down and then you used to have to jump in the pool to extend your legs
apparently, d- could you dive? no, we weren’t allowed to EOS I
remember you did a belly flop once, it was so funny EOS do you know
what was the- were you ever jealous when you all used to come in- in
the pyjamas to do like the one with the EOS no, I wasn’t allowed, my
sister did for BTEC sport EOS she had to be in fully clothed shoes and
everything and they did like this diving and what have you with EOS
the clothes on and stuff EOS that was hilarious, I was well jealous in
year five, when all the year sixes were like- we used to do water
polo, that used to be good EOS and no-one ever wanted to go in the
deep end EOS I’ve never pl I was gonna, ah- I was gonna ask the most
stupid EOS it wasn’t about the horses in water polo anyway EOS I’m
really confused EOS g- I couldn’t remember what it was for a second I
was like, ‘oh yeah, polo’s the one with the horses isn’t it, how do
horses play water polo’ yeah, that was a bit of a stupid one There is a problem with the Left channel between 02.06 and 02.20
meaning Rhys is much more difficult to hear during this period EOS
just count to three EOS one, two, three, one EOS one, two, three, is
that working? yep, that’s fine, thank you EOS ah, that’s alright, ah,
that’s alright, here, you were talking about these cubes before, I’m
not going off that for the time being, I’m gonna just talk about these
cos **anon** has put the numbers on those there, so he’s done tho- you
see that one, this was a puzzle we got it EOS that’s not right that
EOS yeah, it is, that’s- that’s right on there EOS oh yeah, I suppose
it is EOS so that was that one, so I think he’s done that- it took him
three days to do that but he’s erm, he just persevered and persevered
and that was it, and he’s done them all, so that was erm, that’s
pretty good, and the other thing is, erm, what was I gonna say, I’ve
got your- those ‘Kiss’ magazines for you, about time too and all EOS I
was gonna say, mm, yeah EOS and there’s a DVD that I bought from- and
what was that like? oh it was- well, we watched it last night, I put
it on, erm, it was a concert that was recorded for- in the MGM grand
EOS that should’ve been on the internet, it should’ve been streamed on
EOS and the servers crashed apparently so they didn’t watch it, and
erm, but the concert went ahead, but there’s on- the must’ve only been
about four hundred people there EOS and it was- but it was just
invited guests, but anyway, it’s just a EOS is it any good? aye, it’s
alright but it’s- but again, it’s- it’s only like four songs, so I
mean it’s- that’s not a concert EOS I know, but it was only like erm,
a promotion thing for the- for- I dunno if it was opening a hotel or-
you’ve been ripped off Noel **anon** EOS it w- it was only two ninety-
nine the- the DVD, so we watched that anyway, so we did that, so I’ve
put that in the packet for you as EOS so I’ve got that, so I can trade
you for your Classic Rock magazine EOS so you’ll be alright with that
so have you been at Dad’s today? what’ve you been doing? did the
ceiling EOS ceiling is done and the s- that dado rail’s done EOS un-
undercoated, erm EOS then we moved the furniture so we can get in and
do some EOS stuff tomorrow and EOS I mean, it’ll be done in a room
and- has he repaired the ceiling? it’s been done, went to B and Q as
well, so EOS what did he- what did he need? Just to get some plaster
on it or has he sort of done it Problem with right channel EOS plaster
is fine he’s EOS **anon** done that flashing, then he’ll be- be
alright EOS oh has he been up on the- has- oh has he been on the roof
and done Right channel resumes EOS well, he was at some point yeah, so
if that’s been done then EOS he wants to come to our house and d- I
saw him in the pub you know EOS yeah, and he wants to come to my house
and all EOS he was in- in- in fact, he came to the **anon** last- last
Thursday EOS and I knocked his head in EOS yeah, and I said erm, ‘so
are you coming to our house’ is it- oh he said, ‘I’ve- I’ve- I been to
your Dad’s to do his- to do his roof’ and I says, ‘well, you want to
come to our house and do ours’ and he went ‘oh, I’ve been really busy’
I thought, ‘you lazy bastard, you’ve done EOS I thought, ‘he hasn’t
done it’ so erm, so that was erm- so that- so is Dad- did Dad say
anything about working with me tomorrow? yeah, I think- erm, no, he’s
not working with you tomorrow I don’t EOS I think **anon** gonna carry
on painting EOS oh right, I- do some stuff EOS then I think he’s with
you on Thursday or something EOS right, that’s tomorrow EOS oh is it,
Friday then EOS did he say Friday, he might come down on Friday EOS
Friday I think EOS but I mean like, once that ceiling’s done, I mean
there’s nothing to those walls in that room EOS to be honest EOS cause
he was saying about- when he was saying about getting a- a new bed he
was saying about moving his old bed into there and I said, ‘you don’t
want’- and getting himself a four foot bed or something, and I said,
‘you don’t want to do that, you just want- you just wanna, erm, use a
bed that you’ve, you know, use his old bed for him and buy a new bed
for that EOS for that room, so I’m sure he’ll do that eventually
anyway EOS no, I hope so EOS so he should be alright with that one so
have you been- are you working the rest of this week or are you off
for- for the- the- at all EOS I’m working tomorrow and then I’m
working Friday and Saturday, right, are you working d- days Saturday
or evenings? right cos I was gonna- I- I think at some point I’ll have
to try and get down t- town cos I wanna go to that **anon** and what’s
the EOS I could maybe do that during the day or something EOS yeah,
but but are you working during the day? I’m not working ‘til five I
think EOS I think I’m working at five EOS just depends what time I get
away cos I- I won’t finish ‘til half one EOS so I’ll have to erm,
we’ll have to have a- have to have a think- about- about going over
there cos with **anon** and **anon** away, we’ve got like a free
weekend, although, **anon** going to see erm, Les Miserables or
something is it, at erm, The Lowry EOS she’s going there with erm,
**anon** and **anon** they’re having like a girly night- a girly night
out so erm, hopefully might- might get away on Saturday so that looks
alright EOS so we’ll go at erm, we’ll just have a- a quick these. Can
you r- remember, yeah, where did you go to school? It says on here
come on with you, come on, I know exactly where you went EOS well,
secondary school Noel **anon** EOS yeah, secondary school EOS well,
**anon** oh dear EOS and where was and what sorry? no they weren’t-
weren’t the best days of your life at- no, it was alright, I think I’d
er- it says here, did you ever get into trouble EOS no, I was very
good EOS unlike you, Noel **anon** EOS I was ver- I was very good at
school, and I think there was a lot of pressure from Mum and Dad,
well, certainly from Mum to do well, erm EOS why? cos I think **anon**
had done well at secondary school, so because I think she was classed
as intelligent, I was expected to follow suit, erm and I didn’t think
I could erm, kind of do that well really, and it really used to bother
me, that I wasn’t intelligent enough and I was really quite scared
about not going to grammar school EOS and going to a secondary school
but, in the end of the day I’ve got the qualifications and I suppose
won’t, so I think there was some- not from outside or from the school,
I don’t think the sc- the school or friends or neighbours really cared
about anything but I think EOS I think it was Mum who- for Mum it was
important that you- or I think for me, my standard was- was to study
and do the right thing I think EOS yeah, I didn’t feel any pressure
at- no you didn’t, no EOS no I didn’t at all I just- I just didn’t
wanna go to **anon** EOS which was- which was erm, I didn’t wanna go
there so but I- I don’t recall e- e- when we went to **anon** EOS well
you never went EOS I did, I did go to school but I mean, I- I missed
the odd day and I think but, I- I just erm, I d- I didn’t feel- feel
pressure with **anon** I suppose because she went- she went to the
girls grammar and- and I think she’d- but I- I always felt as though I
was following in your footsteps at school because all the teachers
sorta knew you, so every time I mentioned my name, they goes, ‘oh you
the brother of- of- are you **anon** brother?’ and then y- you know,
but you were quite good at school, so I mean, it- I was good at- I was
good at most things and some stuff I wasn’t EOS yeah, whereas I
didn’t- I didn’t sort of like, I didn’t do any homework, as such, and
I didn’t erm EOS I didn’t sort of erm, I mean- I mean I went to
lessons but I mean I- I didn’t work- work as hard as probably I
could’ve, I didn’t sort of, use my full potential, so to speak EOS I
think if somebody had actually turned round and said, ‘it doesn’t
really matter sometimes’ EOS ‘and you can mess up and you don’t have
to get great grades and that’s still okay’ then I think that would’ve
been a good thing, but EOS it was kind of never really said so, I
think you’d- I just EOS I just wanted to do well and I- I mean I
didn’t mind staying in and studying, I think, you know, I was perhaps
a bit more introvert than EOS yeah, I don’t , but, yeah EOS in some
respects EOS see that’s it, I didn’t erm, I didn’t like the staying
in, studying bit, I’d rather be out playing foot- you know, playing
football or messing about with- with people so that’s erm- that was my
EOS well I think I preferred the books EOS rather than the football,
and the physical stuff, no EOS oh I couldn’t read, I could- well, I
could read but I didn’t bother EOS didn’t bother with that one, I
liked doing Maths but I mean that was EOS that was- that wasn’t too
bad, so erm, I was gonna ask you another question then I can’t
remember what it was, cos erm, what was it about, wasn’t about school,
it was about something else EOS I was gonna do- oh yeah, how was
Leeds, when you went to Leeds? cause you just- with **anon** EOS erm,
Leeds was good, about half an hour before I met **anon** she’d split
up with her boyfriend EOS sh- oh I see EOS so erm, that wasn’t a good
thing, erm, but yeah it was good fun, we went for dinner and- where do
you go- where do you go for your lunch? is that just a ch- is- was
that a chain a bars or is that a restaurant or something or EOS it’s
an Ir- Irish Wetherspoons EOS or is it like one of those EOS very ch-
very cheap EOS one of th- so we went there cos we had no money EOS oh
right, so is that one of those where you can get eight- you know, two
meals for two qu- eight quid or ten quid or something? one meal for
about three pound fifty or something EOS oh, bloody hell EOS so that
was- that was good and had a walk round Leeds EOS nice sunny, vibrant
city EOS did you get the train up there or coach? caught the train EOS
yeah, how much is that now? about fifteen pound EOS fifteen pound an-
an hour’s journey EOS that’s alright, it’s like a bus service that
isn’t it, didn’t- is- is it every hour or every half hour or
something? every twenty minutes EOS so that was good, I remember that
one EOS I enjoyed Leeds EOS so do you prefer- what’s erm- do you
prefer Manchester or Leeds as a city? cos it’s- as a city? erm, well I
don’t know Leeds- I don’t know Leeds well enough EOS well you’ve been
a few times now haven’t you? yeah, to know whether I’d- I’d prefer it
as a city EOS but I mean I think you could say that Manchester’s- most
people would say that Manchester outside of London, is erm, probably
the- the- the second capital of the UK EOS so many people want to
study here at University, so many people would come here for work I
think, erm, nightlife, social activity EOS for a big city, it’s very
vibrant EOS you got all your quarters, from the gay village to EOS the
Chinese quarter, to the Northern quarter, to expensive shops from
Harvey Nichols to, little cafes and restaurants and everything so it’s
a place I think young people would want to come EOS erm, and good
transport links as well EOS I quite like erm, getting the- go on EOS
but I think- I think Leeds is- is- is erm, kind of a clean and modern
city as well EOS I think yeah, I like going into- I mean I’ve never
been into Leeds but I mean I like getting the train, you know, when
we’ve got the train into Manchester from- from Urmston and you know,
just had a- like a Saturday night in there, I mean it’s not a late
night for- for us, cos I mean the last train back- train that’s back
is what, quarter past eleven or something so I mean, you’re not out
all night but, you know, like you say about going into the bars,
there’s a lot of bars up at Deansgate, and just have a- a few beers or
a little restaurants in there and, I mean it’s quite a good night out
and it’s, I mean like you say, I mean there’s so many people in there
compared to EOS you know, Urmston I suppose on a- on a Saturday and, I
was gonna say as well, that I don’t- I feel more threatened in Urmston
going for a drink then I do- then I do in the centre of Manchester EOS
I don’t think Manchester’s threatening at all EOS no I don’t, no, but
I’m just saying the amount of people that are in there, you know all
having a- having a few beers and, well it’s like at three in the
morning I don’t know, cos I never stay out that late EOS what, when
something’s kicking off? yeah yeah it used to, when I was- yeah,
that’s it, half two in the morning when- what was that- what was that-
I just can’t think of that bar EOS **anon**- there was **anon** I
don’t know if that’s still there, do you EOS that’s probably burnt
down Noel **anon** EOS I mean somebody’s- somebody’s torched it I
should think EOS **anon**- **anon**, remember **anon** remember when
we used to go in there so that was erm, so that was erm, that was
good, cos I was saying to you, it’s- do you think that Ma- Manchester
compared to **anon** where you used to live, now that’s two different
cities, cos **anon** more of a cultural city than Manchester isn’t it
EOS do I prefer it or EOS do you want me just to compare them? just
where- wit- whe- if- if you had the choice now of living in- living in
**anon** where you used to live or in Manchester, or- or EOS you know,
where you live now EOS I think that is a really difficult question,
because I have a very big history down in **anon**, and there are
things that I miss down there, erm, it’s a tourist city it’s- it’s got
money EOS erm, I- I- I EOS you haven’t got Lostock have you EOS well
no, it’s- no you’ve- you- y- you- your main- your main employment
there is the University, that- one of the top ten Universities, and
there’s the international students bringing in money EOS into a city,
it’s a heritage city with a Roman archit- ar- and there is a lotta
tourists in- in **anon** though, isn’t there EOS it- it- it- some
money is constantly be- being brought in EOS erm, developments are
kept to a minimum, you know, everything has to be rubber stamped with
the council of listed buildings and that, erm a v- a very bohemian
city, erm, very small and compact, I mean, you know, you haven’t got
the EOS infrastructure like Manchester or the- the vastness of choice,
erm, but I would say you also don’t get a lot of your social problems
that you possibly would in, you know, in- in a large- a large city EOS
and perhaps some run down areas, erm, around Manchester EOS which you
just wouldn’t get in a place like **anon** EOS yeah, I suppose the
thing with **anon** is, I mean, because, I suppose, like holidays up
there we used to go to **anon** and stay on a farm and- and, you know,
our childhood was, I suppose our summer holidays, our childhood was-
was up there and I have very good memories of- of being at **anon** as
opposed to, you know, going into **anon** I mean I- I enjoyed it as a-
as a city, but I think EOS well would you’ve ever lived in **anon**?
If- I suppose if- if- if I had the choice- if- if I’d have got
employment up there, it would’ve been a place that- that I would’ve
liked to have EOS but I always- I always actually g- going back, when
you lived there, I always thought that I knew **anon** better than I
knew Manchester, because I never re- I never really went into
Manchester in- I suppose in me early twenties I- I didn’t go- we
didn’t go night- clubbing or into the bars in Manchester, and I didn’t
work in Manchester so, I mean, it wasn’t a place that I actually went
a lot, whereas **anon**, because you know, we used to go down I
suppose with **anon** and **anon**, **anon**, and then you lived down
there and, we’d played, you know, like we played golf that time in
**anon** and we’d been to the theatre in **anon** and we- we been erm,
y- you know, t- to various places, I just thought that I knew **anon**
better than I knew Manchester, but I would- I would’ve lived there, I
don’t know what erm, whether I would’ve enjoyed it, I suppose it’s
difficult, I don’t know whether I’d’ve enjoyed it as much as I’ve- I
enjoyed the time I spent here, it’s diff- very difficult, to- to say,
but I mean I would’ve EOS I would’ve been happy staying there and I
did- I did enjoy the times that, that I went down when you were living
there, you know, I mean we EOS oh yeah, I- I enjoyed all those moments
as- as holidays down there EOS as a family, erm, with their being
countryside and a very different kinda- kind of vibe to it EOS yeah, I
was- I was saying the other day actually, do you remem- do you
remember cos you were saying about camping I was- I was saying about
erm, do you remember when- when we- when, erm, **anon** had that
caravan on the front lawn EOS and we s- and we stayed in it that
thunderstorm, and he let those fireworks off outside EOS do you
remember that, oh that was- I mean, I don’t know how old we must’ve
been then, must’ve been about bloody nine or ten or something I think,
and they had those- those bloody aeroplane fireworks, do you have a-
do y- do y- do you remember those firew- the- the aeroplane ones that-
that- that you turned- set them off and th- and they just used to go
‘whoosh’ into the air, and they’d go anywhere EOS yeah, I remember
those EOS he was setting them off outside our caravan and we were
crapping it do you not- cos- cos we didn’t know what it was cos we
were so young, I was a so I perhaps didn’t know what it was or
something, but, and erm, w- and what’s erm- what’s that ch- I think
they- what was- **anon** as well, wasn’t there, when we used to go out
with EOS oh, **anon** and **anon** EOS yeah, but they were good
people, you know, they weren’t erm, they were nice people to be around
EOS but I mean I can’t- you know, f- for me to have- I would- I would
live in **anon** again, no problem, erm, but the reason I can’t is
because I’m now priced out of a market, but, you know what, you have a
choice, you can either live live in perhaps a very nice EOS and not
get too much out of a job or something else and you have to weigh up
your job, and your friends, and where your family is, of a- of a
bigger picture of maybe what life is gonna EOS gonna give you or what
you’re gonna get out of it EOS erm, and there are things that I- I- I
miss a lot about **anon** but there are things that I’ve gained by
moving away from it EOS erm, and as a city, I probably would not EOS
wish to live in Birmingham, I w- wouldn’t really wish to live in EOS
erm, or possibly, you know, Edinburgh or whatever, erm, and I think
London is too big EOS I mean it’s too expensive, but it’s too big EOS
whereas a place like Manchester is EOS it’s got a lot of things going
on EOS it’s got a lot of things going for it EOS yeah, yeah, we had a
good time in- me and **anon** went erm, went to Leeds- well we went to
that **anon**, **anon** or whatever you call it EOS never heard of it
EOS it’s- it’s up near, I dunno, it’s just on the outskirts of Leeds,
but it’s- I think it’s erm, Leeds’ only five star hotel EOS and we
went and it was- cos it was our wedding anniversary, which you forgot
by the way, never mind EOS I did forget, yeah EOS yeah, never mind EOS
I never remember your annivers- next year, next year EOS there’s erm-
oh I’ll tell you another thing, I don’t know if you remembered, it was
**anon** birthday today EOS oh yeah, so it was- no it wasn’t, it’s
tomorrow EOS oh is it tomorrow? oh good, me card’ll get there on time,
cos I sent a card, did you send one, oh well I thought, no EOS don’t
think you did EOS erm, no, but I did speak to **anon** and she did say
it was Thursday EOS oh did she EOS I was trying to get her- to buy-
get a drum kit or something for **anon** or something EOS I’ll change
the calendar cos I had it for today, but that’s only cos Dad told me,
he says ‘I’ve sent a card’ s- he said- he said, ‘I’ve sent a card to
**anon**’ EOS well, good for him EOS no but he said that, no but he
said- he says, ‘I’ve sent a card to **anon** from everybody in
Manchester’ I thought, ‘thanks for telling me, A, you’ve sent a card,
and B you’ve-’ I mean EOS he was gonna do that for **anon** as well
EOS yeah but he could’ve said there was- that- that it was his
birthday EOS I said it was a very- I said I was a very good idea, and
carry on Dad EOS what, ‘from everybody in Manchester’ I thought he
should’ve just told me, I’d’ve sent me own card, I don’t wanna be part
of ‘everybody in Manchester’, anyway, I was saying about erm, the
hotel we stayed EOS this five star hotel, I mean we’d booked in, erm,
for like a massage and- and us- use of the pool and everything, and
erm, but I think it was about sixty quid for each, for the- for like-
what for the- for the night EOS for one night, but you got erm, like I
say, you got a spa treatment, you got a massage in there, we got
dinner, which was thirty quid a head anyway so EOS gosh, that’s not
bad EOS which was in there but erm, they t- they t- w- we had a look
on it, the cheapest bottle of wine on their menu, was thirty five quid
EOS that’s terrible Noel **anon** EOS and they had champ- they had
champagne on the menu, three grand EOS did you buy it? yeah we- well
EOS not the champagne but the EOS no, well we actually- well we wanted
a bottle of wine so we- so we thought well, the cheapest EOS money to
burn EOS is thirty five quid, erm, so- so we had to have something, so
I thought we’ll have that one, but erm, we actually took a bottle of
champagne with us, so we drunk that in the room before we- before we
erm, before we went, so, well, before we went down for dinner so that
was- that was quite good, so we had a good evening there, but erm, and
then on the way back, I don’t know if you, we went that’s- we went to
Todmorden market, Todmorden and erm, Howarth, Howarth is, erm, where
Emily EOS erm, oh and the Bronte sisters EOS what’s that like? it was
alright, it’s a bit tacky but, erm, there’s- there’s like a main, I
suppose, their main street which is just like up a hill, it’s- it’s a
bit erm, like a cobbled street, going up a EOS it’s diffi- it’s
difficult to describe what it’s like, like one of these Devon holiday
villages, you know, where the- the houses on both sides but like EOS
the Hovis advert EOS t- tacky shops I- I would call it selling-
selling EOS yeah, mugs, you know like w- How- Howarth mug and- and
then these- and erm, like, bric-a-brac and this, ooh, int- in fact
there was one good shop, I m- you’d’ve loved it, it was like, erm, s-
selling memorabilia and stuff like, you know EOS oh right, yeah EOS
but they had- they had erm, like some old, like old games, and they
had like, Thunderbirds annuals, and they had Doctor Who annuals and
there was, erm, they’ve got some, erm, like si- oh they had loads of
like vinyl, and I had to I was going through the y- you know, did you
buy anything? c- no but- you should’ve got that Thunderbirds book EOS
nah, well it’s- too tight you see stuff in there but I mean yeah but,
I had a look, but it was all books, and it- but it- I mean it was- it
was a n- that- that was about the only sorta shop I liked in- all the
other ones are, you know, lots- lotsa cafes trying to EOS sorta like
out do each other with- f- for what they’re selling for lunch and for
their dinners and teas and coffees and- and whatever else, but erm, I
could- it was- we didn’t stay too long there, coup- couple of hours is
long enough but we just had a- a wander up the high street and- and
there’s like erm, I suppose a not a woollen museum, but you know these
places that sell tweed jackets and local brew and things like that, so
we- we nipped in there and and just had a look around and got summet
from- went the tourist information centre, got a map, went round the
churchyard where the Bronte sisters were- were buried and EOS at least
you’ve done some cultural stuff EOS sort, cultural- yeah EOS yeah,
that’s- that’s about my limit, in fact we walked into the park and
the- and there’s a map of the park that goes, ‘you are here’, and we
looked at the map and we went, ‘I can’t be’ EOS no, can’t be arsed EOS
‘walking down here, shall we go’ EOS yeah, so we, so we sort of, we
sort of left there, and then we went to Todmorden but they had erm,
they had that like a some stalls on there selling EOS all lo- well not
local stuff, but like olives and- and sun dried tomatoes and bloody,
pickled garlic, and all that sort of salady stuff and then there was
a- another store selling, bloody home made pies and, a bit- bit better
than Urmston market, you know, if you’ve wanna buy a plug at Urmston
EOS that’s about- that’s about- yeah, or some- bout your limit really
isn’t it EOS yeah, yeah, buy- buy summet from Marks and Spencers, yeah
you’ll be alright, so erm- what was your friendship group like as a-
as a child then? my friends at school, at school, I suppose- I suppose
**anon** shouldn’t hear this but- well you were friends with **anon**
weren’t you? you- weren’t you friends with **anon**? yeah, I was gonna
say, I me- I- it- I suppose I suppose I’d’ve been seventeen, eighteen
may- maybe a bit younger than that- than that and there was **anon**
EOS and there was **anon** as- as it was and erm, I don’t know his-
whether he still lives up there, there’s **anon** do you remember
**anon** EOS I’ve not heard that name EOS you wouldn’t know- no,
**anon**, there was John Ward **anon** EOS yeah, I’ve heard that name
EOS right- it- I don’t- I’ll tell you- I’ll tell you a- it- I’ll tell
you a story about **anon**, he’s do you kn- do you remember somebody
called **anon** EOS cause he- apparently he’s not very- he’s in- he
was in hospital not long back with some alcoholic problems EOS which
is a bit of a shame cos he was nice **anon**, but, I think erm, I- I
don’t know he- I think he sort of ended up living on his own, whether
he’s in a flat or something I don’t know whether he ever got married
or was divorced or something but I- he’s- he ended up coming in
**anon** a lot EOS oh right, yeah EOS so erm, but anyway I heard from,
well, it was **anon** brother, **anon** that- that send us- send us a
text saying that **anon** was in hospital EOS it’s a shame really cos
I mean he can only be what- how old will he be, forty-nine, fifty EOS
you know, I mean it’s- it’s no age at all, although I know quite a
few- well I know three or four people that have died through EOS
problems, but yeah my childhood was, I mean I suppose that that was
EOS like you say, **anon** EOS and erm, with **anon** and, erm, there
was **anon**- **anon**- **anon**, **anon**, erm, who was the lad who
used to live opposite? I can’t remember- I can’t remember who he is
now, I’ll come to him in a minute EOS that was- that was one,
**anon**, and we just used to, I suppose there’s nothing really to do
EOS erm, we went to the, erm, **anon** youth club a few times erm, but
again you see, the trouble with that- that- that, again, there’s-
there’s- there’s quite a few rough EOS people for in- went in there
from like I suppose it not the coun- oh I mean, you know, if you say
‘council estate’ it sounds EOS but I mean it’s- it’s- it- it- you
know, there’s people like that, so I mean it wasn’t actually it was
alright but I mean if any of them went you sort of felt a bit
intimidated by it- by various things but, and then at- at school I
mean, I suppose, some of me friends- I didn’t really have that many- I
didn’t really have many- lots of friends, I mean there was **anon**,
but again he- he used to live near us, **anon**, who used to live near
us, you used to have more friends than me though EOS yeah, but I
suppose some of that was, erm- you were more outgoing I think EOS yeah
but I mean, I used to play football for- when I first started at- so
that’s a team of people isn’t it EOS so yeah, you got- you got eleven
to start with EOS and I- I- I suppose erm, I suppose maybe I did,
maybe I did go out a bit more in the evening, but I mean it wasn’t- I
suppose it was more hanging round the street, then- then- then doing
anything you know, it wasn’t, like o- you know, other than Saturdays
playing football ‘til I packed that in EOS cause I used to smoke in
the bike sheds and that was- that was the other social calendar,
wasn’t it, yeah EOS was yeah, well it was for you EOS who’d you meet
round- round the bushes, having a fag EOS or the top of the road Noel
**anon** EOS yeah so erm, so that was my social- social events EOS I
think most of mine was based around the band, you know, a school EOS I
mean I- I had two or three quite close friends I think, erm, **anon**
was quite a EOS close friend and probably erm, **anon** or something,
the artist, who I quite liked- **anon**, where did he live? Can you
remember where he lived? I can’t remember and I think some of the-
some of the people from primary school carried over into secondary
school so EOS there was a kind of known following, you know, when-
once you kind of got to EOS secondary school erm, and people either
got along or fell out but I suppose I just joined bands at that point,
school bands and local bands, and they became friends and they became
people that EOS socialised a bit more with as you got a little bit
older EOS cos you played a couple of- I mean didn’t you play the civic
centre with your band and hats? I think so, and I played somewhere in
Urmston, **anon** EOS where was that? Did you play there? I don’t
remember that, I remember the- go on why, why do you remember that?
why do I remember it? Erm, I think because you- you were shouting so
much that you couldn’t speak afterwards EOS and you’re just hoar-
you’re voice was so hoarse EOS what, cheering you on? yeah, and I
can’t think what garbage we played but we must’ve played a lot of EOS
yeah but I used to, you see, that- you see that- that- you see that
was it you see, I was- I was very proud, and I’ve said this to you
before, I was very proud of you being in a band, and- I know you was
EOS and the fact that y- y- you know, you play- but I was actually
very proud of you playing football, cos I could never do that EOS ah,
I mean that’s- that’s- I suppose that’s brothers for you isn’t it,
one’s good at one thing, one’s good at the other, but I mean I
suppose, deep down I- I don’t know, I just used to like going to watch
you play and I-, you know, telling people say, ‘oh, me, you know, you
know, me brother’s in a band, come and watch’ cos I mean, I remem-
remember seeing you, like I say, at the **anon**, and- and **anon**
and even when you were in your band in **anon** tha- that was erm I
have still got your CD up there, oh right, that’s good that EOS aye,
we’ll show **anon** the pictures after EOS so we’ll erm, so I remember
that, so who else- I- who was- was it **anon** that was in your band
EOS there was **anon** and, **anon** EOS don’t remember that one EOS
who was the guy who pl- who was the lead guitar at the front? can you
remember his name, that m- was that **anon**? I can’t remember EOS I
can only ever remember about two people anyway EOS bet they played
scout huts and stuff like that EOS whatever happened to your drums?
What happened to your- what happened to your dr- what happened to your
drum skin? oh that, the drum skin, the painted drum skin? it followed
me down to **anon** I took it to **anon** and I think I just had a big
clear out one day and it got in the skip EOS I really wish I hadn’t
skipped stuff like that EOS I bet, yeah, yeah EOS but it- you know, I
think things were alright, you know, I- I was just more of a- a bit
more of a recluse and a loner I think EOS I’d quite enjoyed staying in
and playing records and- and stuff and, just having two or three quite
close friends and the music EOS I don’t- I just don’t think I was
particularly outgoing to kind of go crazy, you know, and I, like I
say, I mean I didn’t have- I didn’t have loadsa friends but they were-
they were just sort of EOS I think- I think in later days I think
**anon** I mean I spent a lot of time with- with **anon** if you
remember, and then he moved up to bloody Hebden Br- not Heb- somewhere
up there, Hebden Bridge or something he met- he met **anon** who was
about twenty years older than EOS oh that’s it, yeah EOS with a- with
two kids, which erm, when you’re twenty I suppose that was appealing
for him EOS you know, which is- but erm, he erm, I dunno, we lost
touch then, and I’ve- I’ve not- I’ve seen his brother a few times, he
lives in- yeah, yeah, I’ve seen him, **anon** EOS no, his younger
brother, erm, **anon** EOS oh I think I missed **anon** I can remember
**anon** EOS well **anon** was your age EOS **anon** was the year
younger than me, and then there was **anon** who was a different- who
had a different Fa- in fact I think they were all different Father’s,
I don’t know, but, he had a- he had drugs prob- he’s another one that
had drugs problems so erm, that was- that was that I suppose, erm, did
you have a favourite teacher at school? Going on about school no EOS
I- well, y- well, I suppose- I suppose I did in a- in a- in a strange
w- I suppose I had a favourite teacher EOS and I had erm, a probably
not so favourite teacher, my favourite teacher- I did have a favourite
teacher, erm, because he was EOS who was that? I think it was **anon**
EOS oh, I don’t remember him EOS he was a Maths teacher but he just-
it sounds very silly- silly or stupid at that age, but he just came
across as very caring EOS he didn’t come across as erm, a kind of
teacher in a way EOS so it w- eh, go on EOS so I think- so I think I
kind of liked him for- for that reason EOS not particularly for the
subjects he taught but just because he seemed a caring bloke EOS I was
gonna say, cos quite a few of the teachers at school were quite, I
think, Victorian, cos they were older weren’t they, it was- oh they
were, I mean that Russian teacher was just, you know, a sadist wasn’t
he EOS banging on desks and throwing chalk at people and EOS yeah, and
he- pulling your hair and being really quite obnoxious and nasty EOS
yeah, and then- and then there was- it- it’s no wonder somebody took a
either a knife to him one of EOS a fist or something EOS someone
probably it- yeah EOS because- because they weren’t- they- they were
EOS he was quite- I mean this is it- cos I mean, when **anon** says
about her school and they used to call them by, you know like,
**anon** or **anon** or **anon** something, I mean ours was just,
surname- it was just your surname they used to EOS but they- they-
they- I don’t know, they- it was very, I think disciplined was- was
the word, I mean it was a boys’ grammar school, I suppose, it wasn’t
mixed or anything but it was- it was just very Victorian in its- in
its outlook at school and, you know- but it wasn’t over fun either was
it, no, it wasn’t, no EOS I mean it was I suppose you were there kind
of to study and you towed the line EOS and it was kind of Victorian
but, I suppose the teachers who were there perhaps had grown up in a
slightly different era even to what we- we had done EOS well that’s it
I mean- and I suppose it, you know, **anon** and **anon** now have a
very EOS oh yeah, I mean the- cause it’s a lot more open and- I think-
I think like you say, I think the schools tend to be a bit more- I
think they treat you more as people than they- than they ever did
when- when- when we were at grammar EOS you know, I mean, like you
say, you were saying about your favourite teacher, I think my
favourite teacher was a PE teacher, cos I didn’t, you know, it was
like PE EOS wa- wa- wasn’t sort of like ball and ch- it’s not- wasn’t
work, if you know what I mean, it was EOS was that the little short
arse guy EOS there was only- there was only- they had a he gave me EOS
I remember he gave me some lines once EOS he had glasses didn’t he EOS
I remember he give me some lines once, and I did them, I did them with
that self-carbonating paper, do you remember, Mum had some self-
carbonating paper that you just- what was that? well you just wrote on
it and it would carbonate on- onto the next EOS oh they must’ve known
Noel **anon** EOS oh he did yeah, cos he caught me and it wasn’t-
wasn’t- wasn’t hard t- to notice that one but erm, we did that and
then, erm, I can’t remember what I had to write now, but I remember- I
remember him but I just- I just quite enjoyed, like, PE, cos I suppose
that was the football bit, and I just couldn’t cover the- cover the
proper subjects couldn’t do- couldn’t do them at all so when are we-
just erm EOS I’ll have to come round to yours again with me- with me
guitar and me amp, like we said, we’ll try and do a bit a- are you
working- what you working next week, I know what you’re saying about
EOS I can’t remember what I’m working- I’m working next week EOS no,
I’ll just- it’s wri- it’s written at home but EOS give us erm- just
come over with your amp and erm, we’ll have a jam around or EOS if you
give us a shout about that we’ll- we’ll try and have a- we’ll try and
have a- have a look at that, have you been busy at work or not too bad
EOS not for the last two days I’ve not been there EOS oh, you’ve not
been in have you EOS erm, but yeah, it has been busy, we’re moving
buildings EOS right, when d- when d- they expect that to be- in four
weeks EOS is that when you’re moving? it’s seventeenth September EOS
oh right a- so that’s gonna be a bit of a nightmare EOS yeah, are they
closing the other one completely? well, it’s gonna be rented out to
somebody else, so we won’t have any kind of dealings to do there, so
it’s gonna be EOS very much a different job and EOS different vibe and
erm different building so it’s gonna be really weird I think EOS
you’re away soon aren’t you? yeah, we go away on the erm, oh, is it
ninth of September EOS we’re going to erm, Portugal and don’t ask me
the- the somebody asked me- somebody today asked me the- asked me the
name of the resort, and it’s summet like, ‘Cos’ or summet- summet like
that, I can’t remember EOS who’s going, is it just you and **anon**?
just me and **anon** yeah, cos **anon** and **anon** have- well,
**anon** been to Corfu with- with **anon** and EOS **anon** Dad, and
then **anon** been away with **anon** and then they’re b- going to V
EOS so, I mean there’s just no- I mean th- we- we couldn’t’ve had a
summer holiday this year with them anyway because of all the different
things that were going on, so we just didn’t have time to do it that
way so I mean, me and **anon** said ‘well, we’ll try and book a week
when- when they’re back at- at Uni or- or back at school’ EOS I’ve
never been there EOS well we haven’t, that’s one of the reasons why I
picked Portugal, or- because there’s that and- and Greece, I wouldn’t
of minded going to Greece cos I mean **anon** and **anon** have been
EOS and you’ve been and that was another one, we said that or Portugal
EOS so, it was just a- a matter of, ‘well, where do you wanna go’ so
we- we sort of just went on the internet, and erm, look- looked up
some apartments, found an apartment and then **anon**- we booked some
flights, it’s not too hard, it’s about- think it’s about six hundred-
it’s about six hundred quid EOS what for the- just for the two of you
for that EOS think so yeah but- that’s not- that’s not bad, three
hundred quid for EOS yeah, but I think it’s cos you go out of school
holidays EOS then it’s- you know, it- it- it works out that little bit
cheaper but we’re not gonna- w- we thought about hiring a car, for n-
you know, to drive up, but I- I don’t know, cos **anon** had a look
and even that’s summet like two and half hundred quid or three hundred
quid for the- for the week, and you think, ‘well’ EOS you know, if you
got a transfer for- for seventy quid that gives you two hundred and
fifty quid t- to maybe get some taxis or something and EOS and the
fact that we’re only going for a week, well I mean you’d- you’d spend
the first three or four days looking round the- you might spend half
your time just in the car EOS there’ll be trips won’t there, going
around? oh, the- we- well yeah because I mean they’re always have trip
to the EOS you know, erm, I d- I dunno, they either go to an aqua park
or they go to EOS yeah, other cities and stuff EOS you know, some- s-
some building or- or like you say, the next- the next town- town along
the- the beach EOS so there’s always that so we- we- we decided that
we’ll probably just get a transfer to the- to the resort and then just
see how it goes, but, **anon** and **anon**, you know **anon** and
**anon** who stayed in EOS they we- they- they’ve been to this resort,
well, about six years on the trot or something, so EOS oh well, it
seems pretty good if they’ve- so we’ve sort of like took a
recommendation EOS got a recomm- recommendation from it EOS yeah, so
we’re gonna do- we’re gonna do that but- that is so unfair EOS but
this is our- this’ll be our- our first holiday without either **anon**
or **anon** EOS just me and **anon**, so that should be- that should
be- that should be interesting shouldn’t it? we’ll get- we’ll get
bored after three days EOS just take plenty of books EOS be like that,
oh yeah, bought some books, we went to charity shop and bought some
books, when we were- when we were away at this- this weekend, oh I
tell you what else we- we- we bought, have you ever done that- that
race night? yeah, we did- we did one last Friday EOS those- you did-
you did- well it’s- it was funny because it was **anon** that, erm,
that mentioned it, and we went to this charity shop while we were out
and they’d got a brand new EOS box of- of this race night for two
pound ninety nine, so I thought, oh for that, I th- what is it? well
it’s- it’s where you’ve got erm, they have erm, like a DVD of EOS th-
they have like ten or twelve or, I dunno, how many horse races on EOS
and they give you a- all the- all the little slips, and y- you bet on
who you think’s gonna win EOS so they’ve- they’ve got like at the
first race might be, I dunno, the, you know, the Dean Morris handicap
or something and it’ll have all the horses on it, and it’ll say
favourites this two, or whatever, and then you just- you just bet on
it, and if yours wins or comes second or something, y- you win the
money EOS it’s like monopoly money as well with it EOS oh yeah, that,
yeah, yeah, they- they put like erm, I mean s- some places have used
it for- for like fundraising EOS haven’t they, you know, like, we’ve
been to one at the scouts EOS where they- where they do it and- and
you know, you bet real money on it, put a quid on- on a race, and they
use it for fundraising, there’s quite a few people do it for that, but
it’s just something interesting, I mean you can have a- a few people
over, few beers and some snacks, and, I mean that’s what- that’s what
you did wasn’t it? yeah, yeah, it was good EOS and erm, you know, have
a few snacks and just- just have a- have an evening of it, but erm,
who- who won the most money when you did it? we didn’t do it in the
end but I did alright, erm, one of mine was something like six to one,
eight to one, and I put three hundred on so I got like quite a bit
back so EOS three hundred, yeah, can you imagine that in your own
money EOS yeah, I know EOS but you’ve got a thousand p- I- I- we- we
opened the box and we got like a thousand pound note or something, but
erm, I- I just think it’d be quite erm, quite fun to do that EOS we
had erm, I remember years ago we had erm, I had a little games night
here for different- just for diff- I- I mean, this is for adults and
we had like erm, wiggly worms EOS have you seen- as- as one of the
games we did, and there was- there was a few like, really daft silly
games but I mean EOS we- we sorta split people into teams EOS or we
did girls and boys, I can’t remember now but, erm, and we had the- all
these like little daft- daft g- I mean it was actually quite good fun
because I mean, me Dad loves like playing daft games as well EOS same
as you like going to- have you even played that connect four? oh, I
love connect four EOS yeah, well I’m gonna- I used to love that, I
wanted a little travel version of it, they had it in Sainsbury’s EOS
yeah, you have to just- it’s better than a computer EOS got one in
there, that and tetris, I like tetris, cos that’s a similar sorta game
isn’t it EOS for- you have that on erm R game boy EOS game boy that
was it, yeah, I remember now that’s right, I’ve got one of them
upstairs, got **anon** gameboy colour or something EOS yeah, haven’t
got tetris on it, but erm, what was the other game you were saying
about erm- yeah, oh, but they’re all on like you’re arcade games
aren’t they, have you- have you bou- have you got your Xbox sorted out
yet? or did you buy a game for that? I have bought a game but which
one I bought EOS I bought an arcade classic game, which had a few
pacmans and space invader type things on there EOS do you play it? do
you play it? I’ve just made that clear Noel **anon** EOS erm, and then
I bought a zombie game, where you’re in this shopping mall and you can
just blast the hell out of a load of zombies EOS and then there was a
racing game which I thought **anon** would probably get off on called
‘split second’ but, I’m waiting for that to come down to twenty quid
rather than forty cos EOS I’m not paying that EOS is that a new one
then is it? but I’m not- I’m not paying forty pound for a game EOS no,
it’s ridiculous that isn’t it, have you been in Game in Manchester
then? Ask for a second hand one EOS I’ve been in- I’ve been in it- in
it but, erm, again their prices aren’t that low on some of the new
releases so EOS oh right, oh we’d- at some point EOS we got erm, you
got- you got erm, that erm, guitar for that erm, guitar hero from
there didn’t you, did you get- yeah, I think I did, yeah EOS yeah, a
few years back EOS and erm, and a game I think it was, a second hand
one EOS yeah, that was for **anon** wasn’t it EOS that’s- that’s right
yeah, yeah EOS that was it EOS yeah, s- saying about erm, I forgot
what I was gonna say then, I was gonna say something about erm, about
another game we played on our games night, and I can’t- I can’t
remember what it was, there was wiggly worms and there was another one
it’s- hungry hi- oh that’s- that’s a good game as well, hungry hippos,
but I’ve got- I’ve got ups- I’ve got erm, Kerplunk EOS mm, that’s good
EOS erm, you were saying about connect four, I haven’t got that
upstairs but erm, I can’t remember what we were playing the other day,
it wasn’t Ke- oh I tell you what, that’s one- another thing that
reminded me, Cluedo, it- there was a question in the quiz, in the pub,
he says, ‘where was- where was Cluedo set?’ have you any idea where
Cluedo was EOS and I t- I- was it- it was set in a house wasn’t it EOS
oh it’s- oh it’s set in, yeah, it’s set in this like stately home or
something, but I text **anon** EOS did he know or google it EOS ‘can
y- can y- can you tell me where, erm, where Cluedo was set’ cos it’s
under the- we’ve got it under the cabinet in the- in the hall and he-
and he looked through and he put EOS ‘it’s- it’s a, erm, Tudor manor’
or something, I went, ‘no, look, it’s like, set in a Tudor manor’ EOS
‘it’s not the name of it’ yeah, it doesn’t say- I don’t know how they-
how anybody knows it, cos it doesn’t say anywhere on the box EOS or in
the instructions, where it’s set, and it’s Arlington Hall EOS so just
remember that for your quiz, summet- well if you turn it on to google
what do you think it would say, do you think it would- do you think it
EOS do you think it would come up and say EOS well it might- ‘this is
where Cluedo is set’ EOS it might do yeah, Wikipedia EOS yeah, it’ll
be on Wikipedia EOS be on- be on there won’t it EOS someone could’ve
made that up though if it doesn’t say EOS I- but this- this is what I
thought, I thought I wonder if somebody has just made- just made that
up, because it doesn’t say on the box EOS or whether it says on the-
on the later ones I mean I- I don’t erm, I don’t- I don’t know so erm,
I was gonna say as well yeah, about erm, different games you can get a
‘Kiss’ monopoly, have you seen that? I know you can get one but I’ve
never seen it EOS yeah, I saw it- I saw it on erm EOS where was that?
might’ve been on kiss online or something EOS well, have you bought
it? no I just thought cos it was probably about two hundred dollars or
EOS have you got an account with Kiss online? no, have you? I bet you
have EOS I wish I had EOS I bet you have EOS I wish I had EOS I
haven’t got an account with anybody, Amazon, that’s the only account
I’ve got but EOS I- I- talking of old th- old things Noel **anon**
there was a DVD on Amazon called ‘Kate and Allie’ which you would not
remember, it was from nineteen eighty four, and it’s- it was set in
America, it’s about- and it had Susan Saint James in it, she was the
like, top actress in America and like, both of them were divorced, and
had two children each, and they were all- they had to sort of house
share, and it ran for about five years, and it was my favourite
programme throughout the eighties, erm, and they’ve got a box set in-
and what was it called? ‘Kate and Allie’ EOS oh, I don’t know EOS and
there’s a box set, erm, and it’s finally was released in Europe erm,
in February this year EOS and it’s fifty quid EOS for the whole of
this- this- this series, but you have to order it EOS and I’m so
tempted to EOS but I don’t know whether I find it funny, you know
after such a long time, but I kinda think I would, or I kinda think,
oh what the hell I’m just gonna blow fifty quid and s- see what
happens, you know what I mean EOS you can see if it’s on youtube first
EOS yeah I could maybe do that EOS mm, and see if you like it EOS and-
and- and see that I’ll type- I’ll type that in EOS do they have full-
do- do they have full episodes on youtube, or is it just mainly-
sometimes, sometimes it’s just snippets EOS I’ve never really been on
youtube that much EOS it’s f- it’s funny you saying about erm, not
being as funny as it used to, we’ve erm, we got ‘Life of Brian’ you
know Monty Python EOS I don’t know if you’ve ever seen it EOS yeah, I
have EOS but we- we- I think- I think I hype stuff up too much EOS
cause I’m going, ‘ah, it’s great, it’s great, gotta watch this,
**anon** it’s dead funny’ and but when you put it on, then **anon**
and **anon** are sat there like that EOS what was that play then like,
that Monty Python play that you went to EOS oh that Spamalot, yeah
that was EOS was that any good or was that just rubbish? well, that
was- that was a mixed bag of- of like erm, I don’t know if you’ve seen
any Monty Python, but Monty Python- just the life of Brian EOS there
was Monty Python and the Holy Grail, Life of Brian, and EOS Monty
Python live at Drury Lane, I think they’re- they’re- they’re like the
main ones, and they’re- and it was written by Eric Idle, I think Eric
Idle wrote Spamalot, he was one of Monty Python, so he’s put a lot
the, sort of ‘in-jokes’ in this EOS and it’s- and it’s- it’s run a bit
more like the Holy Grail EOS sort of storyline EOS of it but- but so I
th- you’ve- you’ve- you’ve got to know quite a few of the in j-
you’ve- you- you’ve- you’ve got to have watched the DV- the- the film
I think, to really enjoy it, although there’s- there’s certain things
in it that we thought **anon**, you know, he’d like that, and then
when **anon**- you know, would find that EOS and different things but
it was- it wasn’t rib tickling EOS it wasn’t like, belly laugh out
loud a minute, all the way through it, but there was some, there were
some bits in it that you thought, that’s, you know, that was quite
funny, and it was good entertainment, but we went- we went in erm, it
was good entertainment for- for an afternoon, and we went with
**anon** and **anon** so I mean that was, it’s just nice, and we had-
we went in erm, before- do you know where- do you know where- opposite
EOS oh yeah, that’s w- yeah, **anon** and- **anon** and, erm **anon**
have been there haven’t they? It’s Australian EOS have they, I’ve nev-
I’ve ne- I’ve never been, yeah, well that’s it you see EOS I’ve only
heard of that on rock radio EOS right, yeah, I’ve been in EOS cause
they go on about, sometimes, erm, they have like pre- pre concert
parties there and erm, so, we’ve never been in so- so **anon** says,
‘oh go on, have a go in Walkabout’ and we went in there, and I’ve
gotta admit, it’s a bit of a shit hole isn’t it EOS well yeah, it was
a bit EOS I mean, the seats are r- have you ever been in? only the one
in Leeds EOS oh, th- this, I mean it’s- is it- I don’t know exactly-
is it like just a cheap and cheerful place t- to drink EOS and are- is
it- do they have rooms there or something, is there places you can
stay? I don’t know, but the s- you know, we sat on these seats and you
thought, they’ve been ripped, and the, you know, I’m not saying the
floor was sticky but, it wasn’t quite as bad as that but EOS summet
kicking off in the corner EOS y- you thought, no, this is- this is
not- have you been in- did you say you’d been in it? I’ve been in it
just once yeah EOS that’s about enough EOS and it was- I mean I
suppose on a Saturday night it’s gonna be packed EOS yeah, but yeah, I
suppose it- I suppose that by- but it’s funny you said about
Australian because I remember, on rock radio, they were saying about
free, I dunno, free beers or something or, you know, come in fancy
dress and you- you can have a bar tab or something like that, I can’t-
I can’t actually remember, but it was actually erm, I- I don’t know, I
didn’t quite- I didn’t, it wasn’t busy but I just thought I wouldn’t,
it’s not the sorta place I’d erm, HELLO No right channel between 4.27 and 5.05 EOS count to five EOS yep,
one, two, three, four, five EOS one, two, three, four, five EOS yep,
that’s fine EOS Off you go EOS So Bruce **anon** where are- where are
your parents from? Right. That’s an interesting one. mm, it is! My mum
was born **anon**. My dad was born in **anon**, which is Manchester.
But his parents- er his father was from **anon**, and his mother was
from **anon**. Mm that’s interesting isn’t it? Yeah, so my father was
sent back to **anon** when he was a boy. And he could speak **anon**
fluently. Er, **anon**. yeah and then what about- how did he meet your
mum then? It was when he went back to **anon**. To learn English? No
to learn **anon**. To learn- sorry to learn **anon**. So they came
back, I think me mum was nineteen. And it was before the days of air
travel. So they came on a boat. To Liverpool, is that right? Am I
right that they were-? That’s where they would have landed, no, but
the family had moved to Manchester by then. It was me Granddad who-.
But didn’t they start off in Liverpool? Yeah that was my Granddad, but
then he came to Manchester. you’re Granddad, right, yeah. Cos even in
those days it was a little bit rough, I think, in- in Liverpool . Yeah
so he came to Manchester, and was first in **anon**, before they moved
to **anon**. And that sort of diagonal side to Manchester really.
Yeah, so what about your parents? Well mine are very boring compared
to that. They’re actually erm, both from **anon**, which is now
classed as Salford. And erm interestingly, erm, certainly my mother
erm, grew up close to your brothers and sisters. Just- ju- . Just down
the road actually. From- in a place called **anon**. Well **anon** and
then **anon**. Well actually my father actually was probably more from
**anon**. Wasn’t he, really? So me mum and dad actually lived fairly
close to each other. But went to different schools, there’s seven
years between them, so erm- they didn’t really meet up until er- I
think me mum was in her early twenties then. Although they only-
didn’t really live that far down the road from each other. Erm but
getting back to my mum, erm. What it was with my husband’s family, er
they owned erm, **anon**, in- It wasn’t a laundrette, a laundry EOS
Well a laundry, sorry EOS Get the words right. In **anon** and- It was
laundrettes what put them out of business EOS Yeah it was the
laundrettes that put the- yeah so the laundry- so all- everything was
hand washed in this- and erm- and that’s- and they were very erm- had
a good reputation. And so obviously my mum knew about the laundry,
don’t know whether she used it or not. Well she went to the same
school as my elder brothers and-. Well, me older brother and sisters.
So they all knew each other. yeah, they were quite- quite a well-known
family, **anon**. Because I think- are we the only **anon** family
there? At the time? Erm p- probably the first. There was another
family further into **anon**. but that was bit later. But sort of in
that vicinity, they were probably the only ones. So- and with you
having that laundry, erm-. And yeah, getting back to my mum, she went
to school with- was she the year below **anon**? Or above **anon**? I
think she was a year above EOS A little bit older than **anon**. She
was in the year above **anon** and erm-. And I think your Auntie
**anon** was a little bit younger than **anon**. Yeah. So me mum’s
sister was at school with- she went to **anon**- no she didn’t did
she? Well they all went to the same junior school. No right channel
EOS They went to the pri- the same- yeah, she went- yeah but me nan
sent her to **anon**, so she went there EOS Yeah and **anon** did. So
there’s quite a lot of er family links. And when I met Bruce **anon**,
my husband, erm when I told my mum I was going out with this lad and
said, ‘he’s part **anon**’ and he- he knows you from **anon**, my mum
said, ‘oh I wonder if it’s the **anon**- one of the **anon**? Oh
crikey! Well I hope so cos they’re such a lovely family.’ EOS And I
said, ‘oh right okay, well, I’ll ask him what his surname is,’ cos I
think I’d only been on one date with him, so I didn’t know what his
surname was. And as it turns out it was **anon**. And so then erm- he
was introduced. Everything was okay then. Everything was fine, and
then when Bruce’s **anon** mum found out my- the origins of my family,
and I was one of **anon** erm granddaughters. ooh, lovely family, so
everybody was happy. oh, that’s good Right channel resumes EOS Right,
so erm have you lived any- . No, this is a good one for you. go on
then! Did you move house at all when you were younger? And what
memories do you have of this? Why- why’s that a good one? You moved a
few times, didn’t you? Yeah, you moved house three times didn’t you?
When I was younger? No I didn’t! I only moved from **anon** EOS Well I
thought there were somewhere before that. No, my Mum- You moved to uni
as well didn’t you? Oh are you talking about- it’s my childhood is it,
or? When I was younger- no but I went to live in **anon** when I was
eighteen, but- that was . No but I thought- I though there was
somewhere before **anon**. No, mum and dad, after they got married, my
mum and dad went to live in erm- on **anon**. They lived in a house on
**anon**. But then once- then they moved to **anon**, on **anon** and
that’s when they had the chil- the thr- the- the three of us there.
Yeah cos **anon** was a baby when we moved to **anon**. Cos it was a
three bed semi and it wasn’t big enough, so that’s when they
were-**anon**, where me mum and dad live now. Used to be a big old
like manor house. Called **anon**, and that was demolished. And
**anon** bought it all and- and built all those houses. Erm but left
all the **anon** trees round it, that’s why it got its name. And so we
moved there and I think-. Yeah it’s a history lesson as well. I was
six when I moved there. **anon** was one, yeah. So you won’t remember
much. So I- oh I remember it, gosh. Yeah, what do you mean? No, about
the move I didn’t think you’d-. Oh I can remember it, yeah, oh, god
yeah I can remember it. Mm, it was only down the road. That’s when you
used to go caravanning, wasn’t it? I did, yes. Don’t think that’s on
the list. Yeah we used to go caravanning, yeah, that- but that was
when we lived at **anon**. So er used to leave the caravan on the
drive. And my mum hated it. yeah she used to dread it so we got rid of
the caravan in the end. Well we sold it to me friend’s mum and dad. So
erm- well you didn’t really move round very much, you stayed in one
house. And your house was interesting. They moved when I was a baby
and I don’t remember that. Right. But the house you lived in and were-
was brought up in. Was a big terrace on erm, the main road in- in
**anon**. And you had a number of generations of families living in
the same house. Do you want to talk us through that? Well there was me
and my- my brother and sisters. Mum and dad, cos me dad’s-. So that’s
how many, five to start with Five children, younger EOS Seven with mum
and dad. oh, seven- oh yeah, yeah. Mum and dad that’s seven people.
But because there’s a fourteen year gap between myself and my brother,
and then another two years between my sister **anon** and another two
years between my sister **anon** EOS they had sort of grown up and
moved out. While I was quite young. Er **anon** was at university
while I was about five or six. So they effectively had moved out when
I was quite young. So there was me and my younger sister **anon**, mum
and dad, my dad’s sister, Auntie **anon** and my dad and my Auntie’s
father, granddad, who lived there. And he was the boss. Oh he was.
Granddad was the boss. And he was called **anon**. yeah, **anon**. And
he ruled, and I know this because of my mum. Because my mum erm also,
as well as going to school with **anon** they were quite big church
goers, and Bruce’s **anon** family, the **anon** were church goers and
they used to meet up at church and **anon** and me mum used to sing in
the same choir, didn’t they? That’s right. And your Auntie **anon** I
think. And Auntie **anon** er, my mum’s sister. And er- and so she
knew of the family – obviously, they knew the family well. But they
knew about this granddad who-who was like sort of very traditional
values. And ruled the house quite strictly, didn’t he? And they were
all very- well they weren’t- well you had a great deal of respect for
him, you weren’t particularly- were you frightened of EOS Oh yeah,
none the worse for it, oh definitely. Oh yeah he was frightened of him
then, so . yeah but we all loved him to bits, and- But er- anything we
wanted to do, or go anywhere, we had to ask. You know I didn’t ask my
dad, cos he’d say, ‘ask your granddad.’ EOS And also, wasn’t your dad-
he worked sh- nights. So you didn’t see your dad that much. You
probably saw more of your granddad and your EOS Yeah only- I only saw
me dad coming in from work in the morning, off his night shift, cos he
worked permanent nights for about twenty five EOS And he came home
about eight o’clock in the morning, had something to eat, went to bed,
I’d go off to school, come back, he’d be getting up and then off to
work. Yeah, so really- only really saw him at the weekends. yeah, so
that’s probably why granddad- cos he’d be retired then wouldn’t he,
granddad? And- and your grandma-. I never saw my grandma. Oh did you
not, oh she passed away before- oh right, okay. Yeah. That was me
dad’s mother. But I- I saw a lot of me mum’s EOS Oh right. Yeah you
did, yeah. who lived a few streets away. she lived around- yeah, cos
now that was an interesting thing, because your mum’s mum erm- your
mum went over to bring her back EOS No, no, no she came home. Am I
right? Oh I’ve got it all wrong. No I don’t know how she managed it,
but she managed to get her over to England in the- probably the
nineteen sixties. what are we looking at- Crikey! And she was quite
elderly when she came over. So didn’t speak very much English. But
still managed to get to the shops when she could, while she was mobile
enough and able to-. Wonder how she got here then? While she was able
to get to the shops and buy a few things. mm, aye, she lived round the
corner, didn’t she, In the big family EOS Hmm, shall we get onto this-
how long have we been at it? oh, erm what fun things are t- are there
to do in your community? Fun, round here? Well, we got the Trafford
centre. That’s the- the biggest thing, because er- since the Trafford
centre’s come along, there’s lots of- it’s my-. I know it’s no corner
shop but- I think it’s great fun cos I like going shopping! So it’s
like- if you like your shopping, it’s a woman’s kind of er- what would
you say? Well it’s my hobby, going there. And er, what other things?
Well we don’t often walk into our local shopping area, but we did the
previous Saturday night, didn’t we? And we thoroughly enjoyed it, but
noticed how mu- noticed all the improvements in the local town centre,
but realised how much more needed to be done. It was kind of half
finished, so erm, but we’ve got sports centres, and I did used to
belong to the local gym and I’m not any more EOS And really over the
years, we have used all local facilities. Haven’t EOS Yeah we’ve used
all the sports centres, the swimming baths. Used all the sports
centres and- Maybe not- not public transport as much as we should have
done. No. No, but we use the park, we used the park a lot when the
boys were younger. Yeah they played for local football teams, local
swimming club. So there is plenty to do, if you want, if you look for
it EOS Oh it’s all there. It’s ideal where we live, because it’s erm-
it’s in a good area, isn’t it? For erm accessing services really. Yeah
it’s- it’s very EOS Walk to most things can’t we? It’s only a few
minutes from Manchester. Yeah walk into Urmston, get the train into
Manchester. Cos we’re not on- quite near the- near enough for the tram
link yet. Traffic’s never too bad. Apart from a few days near
Christmas. But generally, getting into Manchester’s quite easy, yeah
EOS Yeah. And we got some nice local restaurants, haven’t we? If you
can get in. yeah well, yeah, I didn’t finish my story about the other
EOS When we walked into Urmston, thinking we could just get into a
restaurant, thinking, ‘well nobody really goes out in Urmston,’ and it
was very deserted, all the streets, but all the pubs and the
restaurants were jam-packed full EOS And we were pleasantly surprised
weren’t we? Cos if we go out we don’t tend to go local, do we?
Generally. Not generally, don’t think I’ve- Not generally, we’ve
always gone out somewhere into town, or to people’s houses or
whatever, or stay in and entertain with- So, there EOS So what about
school? What about school? about your memories of school? Well I’ve
got really erm, happy memories actually, of school. But erm, certainly
from when I went to **anon**, and yet I was quite shocked when I went
to a reunion, quite a number of years ago, ooh crikey, it would be
probably about seven- no maybe longer, maybe ten years ago, I went to
a reunion. And there was about sixty-odd of us all at the Urmston
cricket club, all who’d gone- some of us had stayed on into sixth
form, quite a lot had left in the fifth year, cos in those days, er
late seventies early eighties, not everybody was encouraged to stay
on. So quite a lot left in the fifth year. Which is year eleven. And
erm- and I was quite shocked at all those who had left, they’d left
cos they were so unhappy. Yeah. They hated the teachers, thought they
were weirdos. And erm, they couldn’t understand why we’d all stayed
on. And erm- and I was shocked that when they were telling me about
being unhappy, cos we were dead happy there. And- and I was quite
shocked at how many were bullied. I was sh- I was absolutely shocked
at that. Cos I was never once bullied. And I’m not a bully myself, I
wasn’t doing the bullying EOS They were bullied by the teachers or the
pupils? Teachers and other pupils. Mm, cos it was an all girl’s school
when I went there. Erm but- not that that’s any excuse but er- I was-
we came away quite upset actually, for some of them, I couldn’t
believe it. Prior to that, I went to **anon**, and **anon**, and my
memories of that school-. Are that- of that long passageway from the
infants to the juniors and EOS And it’s bizarre, because erm- couple
of years ago when me younger sister had **anon** er- we were trying to
get him to sleep at night and I said, ‘oh I’ll t-’ we were at my
mum’s, who lived- me mum lives quite close to the school, and I said,
‘oh I’ll take **anon** out in the pram,’ so I thought ‘oh I’ll- I’m
gonna go down **anon** and have a look at me old school.’ EOS And it
was- it was a real sort of funny feeling going down there, and I was
looking at how it had all changed, I couldn’t believe how different it
looked. The- the actual original building’s still there but they’ve
added on and-. Changed the playground a bit and- and all me memories
came flooding back. And the first thing I remembered as I’m- as I’m
approaching at the bottom of **anon**, and going left onto the
passageway, erm I just remember I felt really big, this- I felt really
tall, this big tall EOS Because when I was last down there, I was this
little tiny person, and the passageway looked so big and- and long.
And yet it was just a tiny little pass-way- passageway really. It
wasn’t anywhere near as- as big and long as it was when you’re little.
But what I instantly thought about when I looked at the main entrance
of the junior school was- was always the smell of sour milk EOS and
bottles that had been kicked over by the boys football. And what it
was, we used to have milk delivered in glass bottles, and EOS It was
like half a pint wasn’t it? Yeah small bottles of milk. And the lads
were terrible for the football and they’d kick it around and it’d
eventually get kicked at the- the milk bottles and they’d be smashed
all over the front. Did you- did you drink it? Milk everywhere. And it
was warm as well, when it was delivered into EOS it was warm, and we
drank it. Oh I- I used to hate it. See I- I think I quite liked it,
cos it’s creamy. ahh, but it was warm and horrible EOS I used to give
mine away. Oh no I think I er- I think I drank it. Yeah didn’t mind
it. It was alright in the winter, but in the summer it was just-. But
it was that smell, I could smell it the minute I got to- to th- to the
erm- the passageway where the school is, I could- I could even smell
the milk EOS yeah, yeah and then I walked round to the infants and
that just seemed so tiny, that entrance. I just remember the school- I
looked at the- the erm the door to the entrance, the infant entrance-
well it’s all in- sorry the younger end and erm, I just remember when
you walked through those doors, the cloakroom was on the right and
then there’s this long corridor with the classrooms off it. And the
hall on the left. And erm I just kept thinking about all the teachers
and erm- there was a teacher there apparently, I think she must’ve
been the reception teacher, called **anon** who apparently, me mum
said used to absolutely adore me. I had this big round chubby face
that was always red EOS and I used to come back with lipstick all over
my face where she’d been kissing me, apparently. Can you believe that?
Oh they’d never get away with that now would they? No they wouldn’t,
they wouldn’t. And erm, I couldn’t say **anon** and I used to call her
Mi- **anon**. Cos you knew which side your bread was buttered didn’t
you? . So erm, that was my r- early recollections of erm the infants
and juniors. What about yours? Well my school was called **anon**.
Which is the school your- your mum went to, and your Auntie **anon**.
Er, it was church of England erm, juniors and infant school. But prior
to me going, it was also a secondary school. For- for kids up to the
age of fourteen I think, in those days. Er but that stopped when my
secondary school, which was **anon** opened EOS Oh that’s when I was
born. That’s when you were born. And I w- I started there in nineteen
sixty seven, I think. Yeah, and it’s now being demolished. because
it’s built on the edge of Barton Moss, which is like boggy and peaty.
And it was sinking EOS gonna say it’s bloody sinking! . Yeah, betit
is. And it was built in the early sixties and not very well built. And
a lot of the erm the walls had been kicked in at times EOS it was okay
when I was there, but apparently years later it was really tatty, so
it’s being demolished and it’s now **anon**. Very er- But the estate
it’s on has got a lot rougher since- since I was there. And it’s so
bad buses won’t go on the estate at night now. And at one time it was
a really nice-. Sort of showpiece council estate. It’s where the
cemetery is, have you ever been to the cemetery at the end of the-?
**anon**, at the end of the motorway there, the erm- yeah, if you’re-
you’re gonna be cremated basically you go-. Well actually no, burials
as well aren’t there? yeah, but- yeah but I was quite happy there but
it wasn’t a very academic school, and in the old system of CSEs, it’s
before GCSEs. We all did the CSE course EOS and if they thought you
were good enough, you did a little bit of extra work to get you
through the O-level. But it was only really designed to scrape through
EOS oh, right, okay EOS Which I found out when I came to do A-levels
and it was, ‘whoah!’ EOS Bit of a big leap from that to A-level, mm
EOS Yeah, massive leap cos I’d only really done CSE. he hadn’t done
GCSE standard. So yeah then it’d be too much, wouldn’t it? So yeah
then A-levels were a big- big jump. Yeah, so that was the big
difference between- say the grammar schools now and -. Cos there is
now isn’t there even? Cos really they help you so much more I think
with your GCSEs EOS and then A-levels you’re not as- you don’t there’s
a big step up EOS yeah and with the eleven plus they do round here, at
least if you go to **anon**, you’re still doing the same course.
you’re still- Yeah and you’re still gonna do well as well aren’t you?
As the people at the grammar, so if you apply yourself, and stay clear
of the ones who don’t want to work, there’s no reason why you
shouldn’t do well. You can do well can’t you? That wasn’t encouraged
then. At secondary school. No, not at all really. And the junior
school I went to erm, didn’t do any practice papers for the eleven
plus, which I know they don’t do now, but erm-. Parents are aware of
practice papers and things. Oh God yeah, yeah mm. But in those days,
some schools did practice papers and- and half the class would pass.
So when you saw your eleven plus paper, that’d be the first time you’d
ever seen one. And like, ‘what? What’s that?’ EOS I mean, it doesn’t
matter how clever you are, you can’t do it can you, unless you
practice it. Well one person passed. Let me stick this light- oh sorry
but I can’t move! yeah, you can EOS Sorry, it’s alright I was just
gonna put the light on. One person passed in my class. No right
channel EOS And she’s now a top barrister in London. So that’s how
clever you had to be. Right channel resumes) EOS her younger sister
was in-. **anon** was she in the year above me, I think at **anon**.
She went to EOS I think she went to do mechanical engineering. Oh
thanks, yeah. But their parents owned-. They’re really clever girls
anyway I think, aren’t they? Yeah their parents owned **anon** at the
time. Cos they sold parker pens. Oh did they live in Eccles then, and
come on the coach down to the EOS Er they probably came on the bus.
There used to be the number twenty two. cos they lived near **anon**.
And the bus used to go from **anon**. Oh yes, right. I think it still
does EOS So- so don’t they have a special bus for them- coach for them
from Salford, don’t they? Yeah they do now. Cos I remember that
starting. But there w- there was a lot- it was fifty-fifty, those who
went to EOS it was fifty-fifty, if you went to **anon** or **anon**.
Yeah. Ah yeah right, okay. But it always annoyed me because this
**anon**, it was always me or her who were top. Yeah. And then-. Do
you think she did practice papers then? Yeah that was what I was
saying, her mum and dad had this posh paper shop and they- they
probably knew about practice papers and things. Oh, they would have
known about- how annoying. And they never told anybody else. the good
old days, yeah. Yeah, cos it seems a bit of a coincidence that she was
the only one EOS yeah, because me, her and three other girls skipped a
class between the infants and the juniors, we didn’t go in to what is
now year EOS oh yeah, yeah. We went into year four. Why would they do
that, that’s silly? They used to- used to- they used to do daft things
like that, like, ‘oh you’re clever enough to go into year four, you
don’t need to- you EOS so you missed a whole year? Yeah, when you
learn your tables and things like that. Oh that’s ludicrous! But
that’s what they used to do. Mm, it is terrible that. And even though
we weren’t at the bottom of that class-. We were somewhere near the
top, but not at the top. mm, what a shame. And it was weird, you know,
splitting us up from all our friends, yeah, that is weird EOS and then
you make new friends and-. and, that’s how I got to EOS Who I used to
go- I used to go to the match with. Oh right was in the year above?
Cos he was in that year above, yeah. Oh right. You see you’ve always
had friends that have been older than you, haven’t you? Yeah, and I
think it’s because of that. I’ve noticed that, you know, even now I’m
thinking of **anon** and erm- actually **anon** the same age, isn’t
he? Erm those other blokes, I mean a lot of them have moved away now,
but when I first met you, a lot of your friends were older than you
and I- ‘oh I used to go to school with him but he was in the year
above, or the year above that.’ EOS Yeah well it probably started
off-. So that- I wonder if that’s why? knowing **anon** and a few
others. Then we went to the same secondary school so I- I was back in
my proper year. But your friends were in the year above, A lot of me
friends were in the year above, yeah, it’s a shame isn’t it EOS but I
was still friends with- I was still friends with kids in my year. So I
was friends with both. And then I go to know others. In the year
above, like **anon**. People like that. And then h- with the other
people, I think you’re probably thinking of **anon** and people like
that. Oh it’s **anon** yes, yeah. Who’s like three years older than
me. He’s quite a bit isn’t he, yeah. But all that came about through
volleyball. Which we used to play at our school, You did, yeah.
because- cos our maths teacher played for England, at volleyball, so
we were the only school who could play it properly. Us and **anon**
and **anon** and we used to play them. So that’s how I got to know
people like **anon**, **anon** who went to **anon**. Oh gosh, yeah, mm
EOS And **anon** who went to **anon**. Mm, oh they were clever lads
weren’t they? And when we all- when we all left school we all got a
team together. So we were quite a different you know erm, wide ranging
age group. And pretty much kept in touch up until the last few years,
when we’ve got married and had kids and-. I know, and also we- we’ve
lost a lot of friends through divorce, cos of- you know people like
**anon** split up hasn’t he? Quite a lot of them have er- well they’ve
moved abroad, I mean **anon** and **anon** who we’re really friendly
with, and they went to live in Canada, I remember feeling dead upset
when they went away and it’s really hard to keep in touch with people.
When they move away as well, and then obviously if they split up it
sort of becomes awkward then EOS because you don’t know EOS which one
to choose EOS which one to choose. Yeah if there’d been things like
facebook you know like fifteen years EOS Yeah probably would’ve stayed
in touch with them better really. It would’ve been a lot easier. Yeah.
You remember to go on it and- Yeah and mobile phones, and texting. Cos
it used to be having to rely on letters didn’t it, and- An expensive
phone call, if they were abroad. Yeah that’s right. Yeah, I mean it’d
be nice to go to Canada and see **anon** and **anon** wouldn’t it?
Although I don’t really fancy Canada. I mean, I know we did Niagara
falls last year, that was only touching into it a bit, but, I don’t
know it doesn’t really- there’s nothing about Canada that really
appeals to me to go to, like- I like America where you’ve got- seem to
have so much there to offer you. So- it’s got everything hasn’t it?
Well I think where they are in Vancouver, it’s on the edge of the EOS
Well that’s it, it’s probably my ignorance really. And it’s supposed
to be really, really nice. I know it’s supposed to be really clean.
Cos I know when **anon** and **anon** have been over- **anon** been
over more so than **anon** EOS but he always says when he- cos he’ll
always- cos his parents live on EOS so if he’s home he’ll always come
and see us EOS and erm- cos you remember he knocked at the door and
**anon** didn’t know who he was? So **anon** had this funny
conversation with him and he said, ‘oh come and wait for them, oh,
wait in for them,’ cos we were out. It’s- It’s **anon** uncle,
actually. It’s **anon** uncle. Yeah now there’s a story. And erm
**anon**- **anon**- **anon** didn’t sort of- ‘well who are you, I
don’t really want to let you in my house,’ EOS he’s, ‘oh just wait for
them,’ yeah. So- yeah so- so but when erm, **anon** was last round
here a few years back, she- she said, ‘I can’t believe how dirty
Manchester is.’ EOS They’d been out in the city centre and she just
said, ‘there’s just rubbish everywhere, it’s just filthy.’ EOS An- and
actually funnily enough, last night when I went to take- yesterday
when I went to take that dvd back to blockbuster, it’s absolutely
filthy round that area where blockbuster is, the back of macdonalds,
where people have just thrown all the fast food sh- It’s all the
macdonald’s, kfc isn’t it? Pizza hut. They’re just- there’s bins there
and the people just throw it, now you- I must admit even in A- where
we’ve been in America, you wouldn’t EOS It’s for being back- back-
back in New York, but- But it’s lazy people who dri- go to the drive
through isn’t it, and they just eat their food. And they just chuck it
everywhere. And they’re too lazy to get out aren’t they? And I- and I
can’t understand why whole families eat in the car, when they can go
inside. No, I’m- yeah. I know and they just- they just chuck things
out and but sort of o- like **anon** said in Canada, there’s just
people constantly clearing rubbish up all the time. Well it’s- it’s
like that at Disneyland isn’t it? everywhere scooping litter up. and
there’ll be parts of Canada and America that are dirty but she did say
that when she- when they moved out there they couldn’t get over what-
how clean EOS everything looked. And spick and span, and- And- and-
and when she comes back she notices how dirty Manchester seems to be.
Well I think Canada’s got a smaller population than Britain. It’s more
spread out as well. yeah, and it’s- I think erm-. I think it’s the
second largest country in the world, isn’t it? We’re more highly-
densely populated, mm. Yeah. So you obviously had a lot of friends
didn’t you, when you were EOS Yeah we had a lot because I’m one of
four girls and we used to share EOS cos we were all fairly close, you
do that with sisters. So- and it- it’s interesting cos even erm- when
I went to me elder sister’s fiftieth on Friday, I was telling them at
work today, they were saying, ‘how did you get on?’ and I was saying,
‘oh it was really fun,’ you know, and some of them, the fifty- fifty
somethings that were there, you see I’ve known them for donkey’s years
really, like EOS Cos **anon** used to share a flat with **anon** and-
and erm-. I just remember erm- you know, I used to go out with her as
well, we- so we, you know, we’d share friends. And erm, and like
**anon** my best friend now, who’s really good friends with **anon**
isn’t she? She- you know we’ve always been like that. Cos we- we-
although my sisters are like me- me sisters are like my friends as
well. And erm so we sort of erm- we know about each other’s friends as
well. And erm, and ask about them. And er, yeah. Yeah. Well this
question here’s just reminded me of something. Did you ever get into
trouble for something at school, were you ever blamed for something
that wasn’t your fault? Well I was blamed for EOS It was at lunchtime,
and then you c- you could go home for your lunch if you wanted, or you
could stay at school and I went through periods of doing both. So it
was o- on one of my supposed-to-be going home for lunch EOS When we
used to go to the chippy. We went to the chippy and just for something
to do we walked round the estate got onto the school fields in the far
corner. There was a gate there, it wasn’t a problem, walked across the
school fields, back to school and the headmaster was wait- waiting for
us. And it was, ‘you boys! You’ve all been smoking!’ EOS ‘I’m telling
you, you ha- you have even if you haven’t.’ EOS ‘No we’re not!’, ‘Yep
you’ve all been smoking, there’s no other reason to be on the fields
at lunchtime.’ EOS So we all got the slipper. Cos he was a real bully.
So when my dad found out-. Was that on a bare bottom as well? No you
kept your trousers on! Oh right, that’s alright then! It’s not ‘Tom
Brown’s schooldays’ or whatever EOS Well we’re going back a number of
years, you know EOS Yeah the nineteen sixties, not the eighteen
sixties! So er- my dad went bananas. Rang the school up and-. Not
granddad **anon**? No I think my granddad might have died by then. But
my dad rang up and said, ‘if- if the- if our Bruce **anon** wants to
smoke, he can smoke, he’s got my permission.’ EOS Yeah. Cos me dad was
heavy smoker and it- it wasn’t a. his Dad was EOS , ‘oh well, that’s
alright, ah, thanks, I’ve got the option EOS But you’ve never smoked,
have you? No, tried a few but didn’t like them. didn’t like it EOS No,
thank goodness, yeah. Actually that- it’s made me think of something,
about **anon**. We used to get the ruler, the girls got the ruler and
the lads got the cane EOS from **anon**. Who was the headt- well he
was deputy head when I was there and then when I left I believe he
became the head for- for a long, long time. And erm, my elder sister
**anon** particularly didn’t get on with him, he used to pick a lot on
**anon** for some reason. And I remember at one parent’s evening erm-.
Me- me dad- well they’d gone to parent’s evening, they’d been to som-
some problem between this teacher- I think actually- sorry at the time
he was- I don’t think he was even deputy head, this **anon** he
might’ve just been- just a general teacher. And there’d been some
incident with me sister, I can’t even remember what it was but I just-
I just remember erm me mum telling me that at parent’s evening me dad
just threw a wobbler and got him up against this- teacher up against
the wall, and was like just about to thump him one. And, ‘leave my
daughter alone, you know I’m sick of you picking EOS Cos I think he
really did, he just- you know when some teachers just don’t like
certain people he just didn’t like our **anon**. And erm and he- in
fact he- he- I think he’s died recently he’s been- in fact he has,
because-. It was **anon** mentioned it. Yeah **anon** told me. Who’s a
builder, you know **anon** and erm, **anon** EOS Oh okay yeah.
**anon** was in our **anon** class at- at junior school and- and EOS
again rec- cos when he was doing the building work on our house, we
were having conversations and I found out erm it was **anon**- he was
in **anon** class and I said, ‘ooh did you ever come across **anon**?’
and he went, ‘**anon**! Oh God he was awful I hated him.’ Apparently
he used to have- this is awful what they used to do, teachers in them
days. Erm- he didn’t just cane **anon** cos I think **anon** was quite
naughty. Erm he used to make **anon** sit at his desk- at the
teacher’s desk and **anon** would have to do all his work there. And
if he dare lift his head up, he apparently had a erm- erm what do you
call it? Ping Pong bat with a face drawn on it- this is the teacher,
and he’d crack him over the head with it every time he lifted his head
up. That was **anon**. And then I remember erm bumping into **anon**
and he told me, ‘you’re never gonna believe it, that B-duh-duh-duh-
duh-duh’ EOS ‘has died now.’ EOS And it was in the paper, but he lived
‘til he was- I think in his EOS And he lived I think off **anon** in
Flixton and we used to see him going up and down the road and our
**anon** erm, went to **anon**. And she set off obviously me mum and
dad’s in **anon** and she had to- she’d have to pass him every day and
she used to think, ‘oh I hate you!’ you know, after she’d left, and-
Cos he used to pr- practically bully her really. And erm absolutely
hated him. I had no trouble with him he was alright with me and I
think the other two he was alright with, **anon** and **anon** don’t
think they had any trouble. Yeah you’d have thought he might have had
something against you as well, being **anon** sister. Yeah, no, well I
think after this incident with me dad about to batt- He- he was- he-
he wouldn’t have any- we were fine after that. Mm, I was gonna talk
about something else then but er- I forgot- ooh so I’m just coming
onto like corporal punishment really because what we- what we did- we-
you know you have a spelling test oh well we still had spelling tests
in them days. And then say it was out of ten you know, depending on
how many you got wrong, erm you’d have to line up at **anon** desk.
And you would get thrashed basically, so if you got five out of ten,
you got five lashes of the cane, and five- that was the lads, and the
girls would get the ruler on the back of their hands five times, or
dependent on how many spellings you got EOS And that was a regular
thing, wasn’t it? So hence, your spelling’s quite good! That’s why
I’ve got- really have good spelling actually, cos it was the thought
of getting the ruler. But I can only remember erm, a black girl who
was in my class called **anon** I’ll never forget her. And erm her
brother was in I think the year below or couple of years below. And
they- both her and her brother were adopted, and she had white
parents. And again, they lived actually on **anon**. And she was
absolutely terrified of **anon** and I always remember one day she
just- you know I think she just freaked out if she ever got the- the
ruler. And she cheated in this spelling test and she- she’d actually
written the spellings on her desk. Cos we had wooden desks in those
days EOS and you used a fountain pen. And er anyway she’d- she’d
obviously done surprisingly very well in EOS and he was obviously
suspicious, so we all went out to play and then obviously he was
snooping round and he saw these spellings written on her desk. Etched
into the er- . Yeah. Oh I’ll never forget it, it was awful, and he
made her scrub it with bleach and everything and-. Oh it was just
awful. Yeah, you lived in fear really you know. Mostly you did. But
then I went to the grammar school and I was quite- you know, I had
quite a happ- happy time there really. I mean I don’t think I
particularly had an unhappy time- I think I had a very happy time in
the infants and I think going into juniors was fine until we had this
particular teacher. I think generally it was him. Yeah that’s the
trouble isn’t it at infants and juniors, you’re just stuck with the
same teacher for a year. Yeah, yeah. I think I-. And they’re stuck
with you if- if they feel the same, I know I don’t know how he ever
got the deputy- well he was deputy head when I was there and then he
got the headship after I left. They were probably frightened to not
give it him. To be honest. Mm, still see him now, he was one of those
blokes, sort of balding with a bit of hair either side, like a bit of
a mad EOS Always had a tweed jacket on. Oh yes they always had a tweed
jacket. Yeah with patches here. A bit portly. Portly, absolutely short
and portly. And he just looked like that from the minute he started
there from- from- and I presume from when he left. He just never
looked any different. He sounds just like **anon** who we had at
**anon**. Who your Auntie **anon** remembers, he was er- our
equivalent. He had a choice of slipper, it was pu- it was pumps,
slippers, there was a few EOS One with nails sticking out just so it
had a bit of . Yeah he used to run the tuckshop, and it was behind
him, in his little room behind him and he was- he was supposed to be
teaching and he was just tucking in to Jammy Dodgers and things like
that, yeah. Well he was- but then he left and went to- after I left,
he went to **anon** school in Swinton. Oh really, **anon**? No
**anon** Junior school. Oh a junior, right. Was that a private school?
but I think he’s lived round here somewhere, apparently. Yeah don’t
know if he’s still alive, he must be well into his eighties or
nineties now. But yeah. Definitely old school. yeah, mm, I’m just
looking here about having to help out around the house, erm this is
funny. In fact I was telling them, they must think I’m a bit of a
nutter at school- at work sorry, cos I- I dunno how we got onto this
conversation, this was last week and we were talking about sisters and
things and getting on with families and stuff and I said ‘I can
remember when erm, when the four of us- me and my three sisters, were
all living at home, in- on **anon**. And erm I think the younger two
are a bit too young at the time t- to have to help with chores so it
was me and **anon** and we used to have to erm, wash- we didn’t have
dishwashers so we used to have to wash and dry and put away. Now the
person who washed up, washed up and that was it you could get out of
the kitchen quick but the poor person who had to dry also had to put
away. And guess who always ended up drying and putting away cos she
was a bit younger than the older bossy sister. Wouldn’t be you, would
it? yeah, it was me and I can just remember just getting so fed up
she’d rush into the kitchen start washing up and I’d get in, I
thought, ‘here I am again, I’m having to dry.’ And then she’d you
know, hurry up do it much- obviously quicker cos it takes longer to-
to dry and then put away. She’d rush out and carry on doing what she
was doing, watching telly or whatever. And I just remember one day she
was washing up and I’m drying the knives and I got a knife to her EOS
But you know in a sort of friendly kind of way. . There is- there is
no friendly kind of way. And I was just getting it and say- getting-
cos we used to have steak knives as well so actually it was quite
sharp actually, it was a very sharp steak knife. Bit posh that! With
er- a brown wooden handle, erm cos the reason why I remember that is
when you were washing up you weren’t allowed to put the handles in the
water. Because they were wooden. Because they were wood. Yeah and you
used to have to hold them like that and- and clean the- the stainless
steel edging. So, I just remember getting it and saying, ‘I’m fed up
of having to dry and put away I’m fed up, you’ve got to let me wash
them all’ EOS ‘wash the pots for a change! Or I’m gonna tell mum and
dad,’ like EOS I think it did work, I seem to think having the knife
there perhaps EOS did help a bit. Better be careful hadn’t I? Yeah you
just keep loading the do- dishwasher up Bruce **anon** you’re EOS Oh
so that’s why we got one is it? one, two, three EOS yep, that’s fine EOS one, two, three EOS when
you’re ready EOS oh super, we’re on, we’re off and running EOS so
we’ve got all these things just to discuss then? that should be good,
okay, let’s- let’s start with erm, with- what’s your best memory from
when you were young Steph **anon**? gosh, that’s a hard one to begin
with EOS my best memory from when I was young EOS can you think of
anything funny that happened to you? not funny, no I’m r- I’m rubbish
with a- my memory EOS shall I tell you what one of my funny things
was? you’re best or funny memory, go on, when erm, I fell down all the
steps at Blackpool going onto erm, the beach, some parts of Blackpool
where it’s quite steep from sort of the, where the promenade is EOS
and you sort of go down quite a lot of steps EOS and the way, sort of,
the tide comes in, cos it’s quite a strong tide at Blackpool, isn’t
it, there’d quite often at the bottom of the steps be quite big pools,
and I can remember being really, it’s funny now but it wasn’t at the
time EOS but I can remember being really, you know, dressed up for the
holiday with new shorts and a nice tee-shirt and everything, and went
racing down these steps, and they were like wooden s- I can’t remember
whether they were wooden or stone, but anyway, got towards the bottom
and I slipped, and I went skidding and this puddle at the bottom was
quite deep actually, cos obviously it was only sand, so it could wash
away quite easily EOS I can remember sort of slipping into it all EOS
and, it was like, bit muddy as well, not just sort of nice clean sand
EOS and I remember everyone looking at me, and me Dad picking me up
and I was crying me eyes out a- ah, they had to take me back to the
hotel EOS oh, not good EOS I can remember a scary moment when I was
younger, with me Dad driving when we’re on our way to Wales, you can
imagine like, there was seven in a car EOS well, we had one of those
like vans, you know, that you used to sit EOS at the back of EOS it
was a little sort of t- with a, erm, like a transit van but with- with
seats in and well, up to the hilt with luggage EOS c- going- dest- to
the Wales for the caravan and it was in the days when obviously,
there’s no motorway, it was all back roads EOS and tiny little
villages you had to go through, so me Dad decides to sort of like,
‘oh, I think I might go back this way, might be a shortcut’ can
imagine, we’re going down a- and it was just the sheerest hill you
have ever seen, and it- oh God, I- it wasn’t- it was really scary
honestly, it was just- it was just me Mum’s like looking out, the side
of the front, it was just like a sheer drop, he’d gone down this
strange road, don’t know why he did, he thought it was a village EOS
set to the village, and it wasn’t, it one of these country little
lanes that just- but the road was just so, it was just steep like that
it- you could hear him on the brakes going, ah God, it was so- it’s
funny now EOS scary, it was scary at the time EOS yeah, well that’s
like that one of mine, that- yeah, oh it- it was really funny though
EOS yeah that’s- so he didn’t go that way again though EOS you
should’ve heard me mother EOS I do remember that journey going to
Wales EOS that day yeah, that was a bit scary going down that EOS
really, re- he managed to do it fortunately but, didn’t go that way
EOS I wonder where that was then EOS I don’t know it- I EOS Ruelt or
somewhere like that EOS it was so- I was y- I was so young, I really
wouldn’t remember EOS but yeah, it was do you know like all the old
Flint, and you have to go through all the old EOS yeah, bet it was-
villages like that EOS it was before one of those, I ah, I couldn’t- I
couldn’t believe how steep this little tiny road he decided to take us
down was EOS it was funny EOS and the brakes on the cars weren’t that
good in those days either, not like now EOS but it was a big- I mean,
it was like a big tranny van thing you know, with all us kids in the
back with all the lugga- it was so fu- I don’t know how he managed it
to be honest- I don’t know why we just EOS and it was like turning
down, no, not very nice but that was- it was- it’s f- like as you say,
it- f- it’s funny isn’t it how you EOS how you think back, you think,
that was really scary at the time and EOS now you think, how funny,
what th- how EOS how funny that was EOS when you think about it now
EOS and what, I think this is a good one, what kind of games did you
play? And what- I bet we played similar sorts of things though EOS
cause it was in the street wasn’t it, just playing EOS in the street,
yeah, we used to play like hopscotch, which was like the favourite one
EOS wasn’t it and, ticky-hit and- or kingy as we used to call it cos
we used to play it with a ball EOS used to chuck a ball at somebody
EOS and if you got them then obviously then they were it then yeah EOS
and elastics, I used to love elastics EOS oh we used to play that, we
used to take those to school, cos you just used to buy l- big piece of
elastic EOS on a card, and just sort of un- unravel it didn’t you and
then just tie the ends and everyone’d just be skipping EOS just be
skipping along yeah EOS yeah, I used to love elastics, yeah EOS yeah,
we used to go to the park and play rounders a lot, everybody on the
street just loadsa kids, cos there was loads of you EOS just like on
**anon** you know, and EOS you tended to play with the kids on your
street EOS so like there were kids who all played together on the next
street EOS and then occasionally you’d see them, but whenever you went
anywhere you went with the kids who were like on your street EOS yeah,
you didn’t really integrate really did you? was that **anon** you used
to go across to? we used to go across **anon** EOS either to **anon**
or to **anon**, which was at the back near the EOS right, I don’t know
that one EOS but yeah, it was **anon** more than anything and we used
to play on the big field there EOS yeah cos you’re quite close there
aren’t you, to that one EOS yeah, we used to take erm, I’m trying to
think, it was probably a tennis racquet, so you could really whack the
ball EOS cause like you’d be running, across- across the erm- not
quite rounders then EOS like the little kiddies play area and then
across the erm, bowling area, yeah, and I used to be able to really
whack it, so we used to do that, and then we used to take erm, for the
slide, cos it was quite a bit slide in **anon** so we used to take a
piece of greaseproof paper, I bet **anon** thinks ‘God this sounds
like’ EOS you know eh- sixty years ago EOS oh yeah, you had to, yeah
to, yeah EOS but you used to- did you- do you know this? you used to
sort of put it on your bottom EOS yeah, oh aye EOS used to sit on it
and slide down the slide and it made the slide go EOS so then the next
person who was on it after that, it was like EOS really, really did-
grease it up EOS really, yeah, really used to grease up the erm, the
side EOS so we used to do that, and then erm, play on the erm,
roundabout with a lolly stick didn’t you, it’s so dangerous at the
time, cos it was all concrete EOS oh yeah, and they dropped it and you
had to pick it up as you were on the way round, yeah EOS so, so this
thing, you know like, erm, yeah, I remember that now EOS just like a
roundabout that went round, the old fashioned type, yeah, thrupenny
bit they was called EOS or- or the spider even EOS yeah, the spider,
we used to throw a lolly stick and then it- somebody would be going
round, they’d get their sort of foot going and they’d run wouldn’t
they and get it faster and faster and faster like EOS and then you’d
all jump on and they you used to hang on with one side and lean down
EOS and pick up as you whizzed past, try and pick up EOS try and get
the lolly stick EOS a lolly stick and graze all you arm in the
proceeds EOS no wonder I used to have so many headaches, I used to
have erm, that’s where your migraines are coming from EOS loadsa
headaches doing all of that, so yeah, just loadsa time in the park
really, just used to, in the holidays EOS it was the park yeah, you
just used to EOS just go out for hours EOS and of course you didn’t
have mobile phones and things so EOS but, I think your parents were
glad to get rid of you really weren’t EOS oh yeah, but I had to be in
at a certain time EOS otherwise I’d really get told off EOS you know,
it was like half past nine and EOS if you’re not in you’re in trouble
EOS I don’t remember going out much in the evening though EOS to be
honest EOS do you not? Oh yeah, we- now whether we did and it was just
summer and you just had, like, you say, you had to be back at a
certain time EOS yeah, she didn’t like us out being after dark EOS but
yeah, summer time EOS but during the day in the school holidays you
could- oh during the day yeah, just anytime yeah EOS just take a
bottle of something to drink EOS just came back when- when we were
hungry like you do EOS yeah, that’s right EOS yeah, ‘feed me, I’m
hungry now’ yeah EOS I don’t know many stories about my grandparents
though, I didn’t really know my grandparents very well, cos- well I
didn’t know one Granddad cos he died before me Mum got married EOS her
Dad died before she got married EOS so in terms of good stories EOS I
just know me Granddad was dead grumpy on me Dad’s side EOS he used to
call- yeah EOS he- he- oh God, yeah, he used to just come, and he used
to just come in and he’d- he would say, ‘hello’ you know, like, you
haven’t got like- like the kids of today, they haven’t got the
relationship with EOS grandparents that we had, they were just these
old people that just turned up and you just thought, ‘oh, okay’ EOS
and he’d sit down, and then he’d- he’d just say, ‘well, does anybody
want one of these or what’ and it’s like, you know, y- your EOS and
they’re stinking of mothballs out of his pocket EOS he used to always
insist you have one of his mints EOS ah, no that was me Granddad on me
Dad’s side, can just- that’s all y- I remember about him, just being
big grumpy man with smelly EOS oh right I can remember my Granddad who
lived next door to us on **anon** cos he used to put me on his
shoulders and take me to the EOS but I was- I was really young, and
then he died, he was- day- died in an accident at work EOS erm, and me
Nanna lived a bit, you know, quite a, few years longer, but not, when
I was, you know, older EOS c- I was probably probably about six then
EOS oh right, yeah EOS but I ant- but my Granddad probably EOS died
when I was about three something like that, so I have really young
memories of them EOS you have, yeah, cos my, yeah the person- the
Granddad I’m talking about, I had- was thirteen when he died EOS it’s
quite early really EOS it is it’s quite young EOS when you sort of
think about, like, sort of **anon** and yourselves, with your
grandparents and the time you’ve spent with them EOS yeah, it’s a
longer time EOS and I can remember my Mum’s Mum she was very much like
Mum, she was small lady, but she had one leg longer than the other and
I can- and I can- all I can picture of her now is, erm, going through
our living room into the kitchen, and there was like a doorway, and
she just used to stand there and she was just swinging her leg back
and forth EOS she had to exercise her leg EOS cause it used to get
very stiff and very you know, and- and- and ache really, more of an
ache EOS she used to have built up shoes, her shoe- her other shoe
like- was like the- the heel, bit like platforms I suppose nowadays
EOS but they- the- the- the sole and the heels were like massive EOS
and was it just on one? On- yeah EOS just one leg, on one leg, mm EOS
she had one leg about four inches shorter than the other EOS and I can
just remember she used to always come to EOS the house and she use to
always s- stand in the doorway and she was always in the kitchen
doorway and leg would be swinging back and forth, back and forth, for-
for ages she’d just be stood there EOS so that’s just the memory of my
Gran that I have, it’s weird isn’t it, how you just EOS nothing really
else, we didn’t do anything with her, she just came to the house and
perhaps we had tea and- but I just can see her, stood EOS swinging her
leg EOS we- we never saw much of me Mum’s side, even if you know, it
was her Mum and me Mum’s Dad died before I was born, because me Mum
always said, ooh, they lived a long way away, you know EOS ‘oh yeah,
they li- they live a long way’ and when you think about it now, it was
only the other side of Manchester EOS but because me Mum didn’t drive
EOS yeah, it just seemed a long way EOS me Dad did have a car, there’d
be occasions when he didn’t have a car EOS I think, cos they were
older cars and if it failed its MOT or the equivalent of the MOT EOS I
think you just have to sell it, and that was it, you didn’t have a car
for a while EOS and then you saved up and you bought another one, erm,
so EOS me Dad had a car but he’d be using that for work anyway, erm,
and me Mum didn’t drive, and then I suppose, she then got sort of a
part time job when we were at school, so I suppose they just didn’t
have the time and it- no, they probably didn’t EOS you know, it
would’ve been probably two buses EOS to get there EOS it’s a long-
long journey EOS but erm, so yeah, I don’t think it was that far away,
we’d just jump in the car and drive there now EOS but to them it was
sort of EOS major sort of EOS day out really EOS so we just seemed to
see more of my Dad’s side of the family because they all lived in
Stretford EOS or Sale, you know, they were all sort of like within the
vicinity if you know what I mean EOS I think you find that anyway
don’t you, some, more often EOS yeah, so you tend to sort of find
that, and I’ve only one recollection of me Mum’s Mum erm, and again, I
must’ve been really, really, young and I can remember she kept saying,
‘she’s gonna hurt herself, she’s gonna hurt herself, grab hold of her’
I think at- she must’ve had a cellar and the door must’ve been open
EOS and I just have this vague recollection of seeing steps going down
EOS downstairs which I’d never seen before cos we didn’t have a cellar
at our house, so I just must’ve been mesmerised by these steps EOS by
the steps EOS and possibly they didn’t have- she didn’t have a door on
it EOS and she was trying to keep me away, and I can remember her
saying something to me Mum like, I think these were her words, ‘you’ve
got your hands full with her’ EOS ‘ooh, you’ve got your hands full
with that one’ EOS I must’ve been a bit EOS you must’ve done EOS a bit
hyper or something like that EOS did you ever get hurt whilst you were
playing as a kid? Well, we’ve covered that haven’t we in terms of
like, the games you used to play EOS yeah, I did get hurt beca- I
remember- I remember playing erm, well, I- I think it was just
something I- I was doing meself, it wasn’t a game that any- I had erm,
a broom pole, you know the hand- the- the brush bit had come off the
broom EOS so I just had th- the pole bit, and I remember rolling it, I
don’t know why, I just remember rolling it in front of me and then
deciding to jump over it and of course, in my haste to try and jump
over it, I’d rolled it, and I didn’t clear it, and I put me foot on it
EOS and of course, rolled with it EOS and I just remember going right
back and banging EOS my head so hard on the concrete, I can remember
doing that, such a lump came up EOS but I remember that’s- that’s the
only time I’ve really hurt myself, I’ve never like broken any bones,
I’ve never- touch wood, I’ve never broken a leg, broken an arm EOS you
know, had anything in plaster, or you know, slashed meself or anything
EOS or cuts and bruises, I just remember, I don’t know how old- in
fact it was before we moved into Stretford so I must’ve only been
about six, five or six EOS I just remembered it, but isn’t it funny
cos I can remember that though cos it blooming EOS you can remember
that, and going backwards and really banging your EOS yeah, and really
banging me head, yeah and cos like, you know, me crying me eyes out,
coming running in, ‘what’ve you done, what’ve you done’ EOS so of
course, like, you know, lying there and then she thinks I’ve got
concussion then, ‘you mustn’t go to sleep’ you know, ‘you must stay
awake’ EOS ‘wake up, stay awake, stay awake’ I can remember, **anon**,
erm being knocked out by a swing EOS me Mum was with us, and erm,
she’d taken us- she’d obviously taken us to the park and **anon** was
probably about EOS about three, something like that, so I’m three
years older than her, so I’m six EOS and erm, I can just picture it
now, where the swings were and she just ran, and a swing that
somebody- a kiddy was on came forward EOS mm, just forward EOS and
sort of whacked her on her forehead and knocked- literally knocked her
out, she- she EOS she would’ve done, yeah EOS passed out with it and I
can re- Mum- member me Mum sort of really shouting and picking her up
and like, holding her in her arms, and running erm, onto **anon** cos
there’s a doc- there’s still a doctor’s surgery there anyway EOS but
there was one that backed onto the park EOS and she ran out of the
gates, and I’m running after her and she’s going, ‘come on, keep up’
EOS and she just went flying into the doctor’s surgery EOS I think
she’d come round by that time, but she’s still got the scar **anon**
EOS if you look, a very little scar just on her head where the things
EOS where it’s hit her EOS yeah, cos they were wood weren’t they in
the main EOS they were wood, yeah EOS sort of wooden seats, so I think
it just sort of EOS yeah, they were quite heavy EOS swung out, so,
yeah, just caught her EOS I can remember that being really, really
scary EOS I can imagine EOS did you ever get into trouble for
something at school? get into trouble EOS I was quite good really EOS
no, I was- I was good unfortunately EOS I can remember getting into
trouble- we did play truant once, it was our **anon** doing EOS
‘let’s- let’s have the day off’ and we got caught straight away we got
back EOS it didn’t- it didn’t work somehow EOS think, ‘you know what,
we won’t- we won’t do that again’ EOS so who caught you? I’d- I think
**anon** must’ve written a note that wasn’t very good I don’t know EOS
I don’t think she’s a very good forger of the erm, the old signature
EOS didn’t pass then EOS so erm, no, we’d gone into town, we’d spent
the day in town, I don’t know why, she just decided ‘let’s not go to
school’, so erm, so we didn’t, s- no, but I- yeah, we got called into
erm, the headmistresses office so it wasn’t good EOS I didn’t get
totally told off, I mean it was our erm, first offence EOS erm, it was
a bit scary so she made me go to the teacher EOS that I was in the
class of next, you know, when I was going, and then erm, she says,
‘you’re gonna have to go and explain now, to the teacher now, why you
weren’t in school yesterday’ and it was dead embarrassing cos it was
the- it had to be the teacher that you fancied didn’t it EOS it was
the Biology teacher EOS is that- what EOS and everybody fancied the
Biology teacher EOS he was lovely and he was my form teacher at the
time and I had to go an explain to him why I wasn’t in school EOS the
previous day, I didn’t EOS oh, that’s awful isn’t it EOS I didn’t, I-
I- I cowered out of that I just said, ‘ooh, I’ve been to see the
headmistress, I’ve gotta come join the class now’ EOS ahh, I can
remember getting into- but I wasn’t, yeah- I wasn’t n- I wasn’t a
troublemaker EOS no, I can remember, only two things really, one of
them was Sunday school, and it wasn’t about being naughty it was about
turning something down that I was asked to do because I was shy and
it- I was asked to be Mary in the nativity play at Sunday school EOS
and it just scared me so much EOS wa- having to walk down the aisle,
cos that- they always did it, not erm, we used to go to Sunday school
in the church hall, but the actual nativity play always took place in
the church EOS and I can remember watching it meself and Mary and
Joseph would walk down the aisle, and I can remember thinking, ‘I’m
not walking down the aisle with a boy’ EOS ‘holding a baby doll
holding Jesus’ EOS and the- just the thought of it EOS what, the
starring part as well EOS yeah, it scared me so much EOS so I just
said, no I didn’t wanna do it, thinking nothing of it EOS but cos Mum
and Dad also went to church as well, and knew the Sunday school
teachers, they told her EOS the following, you know, sh- or she told
them the following week, they said, ‘ooh, we’ve asked Shona **anon**
to be erm, Mary and she’s- she’s said no’ EOS and I can remember when
I got home, Mum and Dad went mad with me EOS they said, ‘fancy turning
that down you had- you could’ve had the EOS I said, ‘but I didn’t want
the starring role, I-’ in fact all I kept thinking about all the time
was wanting to be an angel, cos I wanted somebody to do those big
wings EOS and put them on me back, and I fancied being- cos it was all
nice, and white, and pretty wasn’t it, and so Mary just had a- the
angels? Yeah, and they didn’t really do much, they just stood there,
looking pretty EOS Mary had a horrible blue sort of, like, tea-towely
looking dress on EOS and, you know, Mary, dark blue, stripes, Angel,
white, wings EOS yeah, strange thing on your head EOS no-one’s- I
wanted to be the an- I EOS it- you can see why EOS yeah, I wouldn’t-
and I wouldn’t’ve minded being erm, Gabriel, something like that EOS
so did they think you were very ungrateful then and not- they thought
I was really ungrateful because they’d actually chosen me cos, you
know, they thought I could EOS carry it off and EOS so I can remember
my Mum and Dad really telling me off, and then the other time I can
remember being in trouble was, erm, when I was at grammar school, and
we erm, rather than go out through the doors, we d- opened all the
windows and climbed out EOS not realising that, as you climbed out, it
was only our first year, the erm staff room was sort of at right
angles to where the main EOS so of course all the teachers EOS were
sat eating their lunch EOS saw these legs come out of the window EOS
oh, good Lord EOS and we all climb out onto the tennis- you know
where- cos the tennis courts were just below EOS cause it was a really
long walk round EOS and down onto the field EOS so you’d just taken a
shortcut EOS so we thought, ‘we’ll take a shortcut’ so erm, yeah I can
remember having to restack, you know all those stackable chairs EOS
they used to be really heavy with like canvas seats in those days EOS
oh yeah, and those iron legs EOS with the- with the metal frames EOS
we had to erm, there was probably about four, five of us who had done
it and they got us all in, so we had a detention, and we had to
restack all the chairs in the hall that- so, but that was it, so it
was nothing particularly exciting EOS we’re not really naughty EOS but
erm, but no I was really, really embarrassed and I can remember my
friend who also did it at, you know, the same time and erm, we were
sort of told off really EOS erm, at registration I think in the
afternoon EOS you know, lunch, after lunch, erm, I think we were in
the, our classroom then, or form room was the music room and I can
remember we were up there, with sort of, one of the music teachers,
and she said, ‘five girls who will remain nameless’ EOS so I’m looking
up thinking, ‘I’m not going to look guilty, cos they won’t know who it
is, so I’m just’ EOS and me friend was at the side of me, who’d also
been caught, and she just sat there crying her eyes out EOS I thought,
‘well, you’re making it really obvious’ EOS cause she’s going blowing
her nose EOS ah, guilty as charged EOS but yeah we were- we were
really embarrassed that we’d been naughty, whereas you know, probably
now, kids’d just think, ‘oh, I’m just climbing out the window, wasn’t
EOS but really mortifed the fact that we’d done something wrong,
whether it was because it was the first year and we didn’t know
everyone EOS and you didn’t like to be thought that you were gonna be
like that EOS you just think, ‘oh, I’m scarred now, they’re gonna just
think I’m like that all the time’ EOS least teachers, hmm EOS your
hometown well, I’ve certainly not lived anywhere else, you’ve not have
you lived in Manchester EOS not in town wise, no, Manchester, yeah EOS
well, where were your parents from Steph **anon** EOS were they both
from Manchester? yeah, me Dad used to, yeah, he was from **anon** erm,
and me Mum was from down South, **anon** way EOS oh was she? I didn’t
know that EOS we- yeah, she didn’t live there very long EOS she come
up North EOS come up North, then, yeah EOS so she met me Dad and then
they just, yeah, it was erm, **anon** they sort of settled in, so EOS
yeah yeah my Mum was from **anon** and my Dad was from EOS but then,
his family moved to **anon** cos it was posh then EOS well it was,
yeah it was a posh place to come to, yeah EOS from **anon**, cos
**anon** was low key and dirty EOS and **anon** was EOS still a suburb
then wasn’t it EOS mm oh yeah EOS it was a more well to do place to
move to EOS yeah, so me Dad’s family moved there, and I think my Dad
had just met me Mum just before they moved, and then me Mum and Dad
bought the house next door to EOS erm, my Dad’s Mum and Dad EOS so,
they were like sort of, living next door to each other EOS u- up until
fairly recently when the house had st- my Aunt- me Grandma’s house, me
Nanna’s house had stayed in the same family, it was erm, her daughter
and husband who ended up living in the house, and then me Mum had been
there for a long, long time EOS she’d been there for about forty
years, so me Mum and her sister-in- law were still living there EOS
so, all those years later EOS me Mum said, ‘and I never liked it, I
never wanted to live there’ EOS and she lived there for forty years
EOS I don’t think people sort of, tended to move did they, they sort
of tended to stay in the same house EOS not really no, we had to move
from Old Trafford cos our house was EOS so we had no choice EOS oh you
did didn’t you EOS yeah, they pulled down our houses EOS yeah, big
houses EOS big terraced houses EOS they were terraced houses yeah,
yeah, big rooms, but erm, it’s- but it wasn’t really big enough for us
because like me Mum used to use the front parlour, as it were then, as
a- a bedroom EOS so is it still just three bedroom? still three
bedrooms, yeah, so it was- and with- with being like, you know, two
lads, two girls and it was a bit cramped EOS that was before **anon**
came along, **anon** came along after we moved EOS so did you- you s-
your other house, the house your Mum and Dad lived in when I met you,
did that seem a lot bigger when you got EOS it was a lot bigger, and
of course, we had the garden which was like, marvellous, you know, we
only had a little yard before EOS and the outside toilet so, to have a
bathroom and a garden, it was like a palace wasn’t it EOS it was
lovely, although it was very different, what y- how you remember the
house, it was very different when we first moved in EOS because there
was- there was two rooms EOS yeah, cos it was quite open plan, your
Mum- they’d knocked it through EOS yeah, they’d knocked down quite a
few walls, erm, when we first moved in that house it was like one of
these where you- you go through one door and you’re in- in the front
room, you go through another door and you’re in the dining area, you
go through another door and you’re in the kitchen, and then you come
back in this door, and you’re back in EOS so as kids we used to drive
my Mum mental, just running round, chasing each other EOS round and
round all these doors, it was great EOS hiding from each other?
‘Where’s she gone?’ EOS just- just- just chasing EOS just- just
playing ticky-hit round the doors EOS she’d go mad with us EOS but it
was just so much space you know, just EOS even though the rooms were,
like- I was gonna say, the rooms probably wouldn’t be that much bigger
EOS no, the room- the rooms weren’t too bad EOS but, it was just the
fact that we could- we could just utilise each room, you know EOS
before like, we were just stuck in one room in the back EOS and when
you say big rooms they were- they were- I don’t think it was probably
as big as your Mum’s perhaps EOS oh, it wasn’t, no EOS it didn’t- it
was- it would probably the same as this room EOS you know, blocked off
here but not per- quite as wide EOS they- they looked bigger from the
outside than they did EOS yeah, sometimes, cos they’re higher, they’re
sort of deceptive aren’t they, yeah EOS the front bedroom was
enormous, where **anon** and I had the front bedroom, and that was a
massive great big room EOS but then you’d got like erm, smaller room
at the back EOS everything’s sorta smaller after that EOS but, it was-
I mean, we were only young then so I suppose they seemed EOS anyway to
what I- I- they probably were EOS no, but we loved erm, we loved it
when we moved to Stretford, it was the bees knees then EOS I remember
getting lost though, I was supposed to- cos we’d not moved schools at
that point, and we were still at **anon** EOS there at **anon** there
and I was supposed to wait for our **anon** to come and pick me up,
I’ve probably told you this story, I had to wait for our **anon** to
bring me to the new house EOS cause it was like from **anon** it’s a
bus drive EOS quite a long way for kiddies isn’t it EOS from **anon**
to EOS when you think of it now, it’s just like five EOS ten minutes
down the road but, to me it was like, you know, it was like EOS no,
it’s a long way EOS it was like an hours journey EOS when really you
only went to school like, down at the end of the street, or round the
corner didn’t you EOS exactly, yeah so of course, I came out of
school, and I’m sat there on the wall thinking, ‘ooh, where is he’
course, when you’re a kiddy, like, five minutes is an hour EOS so I’m
thinking, ‘oh, he’s not here, he’s not- he’s gone without me, where is
he, where is he’ so I’m wandering off to the shops, you know, on- on,
erm EOS the main- the main shops where I remembered I c- I can find me
way to and I’m thinking, right, I’ve got here, now what do I do’ I
hadn’t a clue where I was, I didn’t know where I’ve got to EOS I
couldn’t- I didn’t know how to get home, I knew where I lived, she’d
given me the address to write, put in me pocket EOS hadn’t a clue how
to get there, so I go in the shop, ‘I’m lost, I’m EOS ‘me brother’s
not come for me’ EOS ‘I don’t know where I am’, I’m crying me eyes
out, this poor woman in this shop being like ‘what’ EOS so of course,
they phone up the police, don’t they EOS so I get to go home in a
police car EOS ooh, I didn’t know EOS about that’s one thing you’ve
never told me EOS shocking, shocking, no, it’s shocking no, I hadn’t a
clue where I was but I could tell him where I lived so, there we are
EOS I’m in the police car, taking me home get to the front door, and
our **anon** gets a right bollocking off me Mum EOS ‘why didn’t you
wait for your daughter st- your sister to come out of school?’, ‘I
did, I did, I did, she wasn’t there, I got there and she wasn’t
there’, so funny EOS so, no, we kinda both got told off EOS but he- it
was c- shame, cos he was only like, you know, he was only f- four
years older than me EOS I was gonna say, it’s ea- it’s easy to forget
isn’t it when you’re a EOS cause that was it, I’d be only what, I’d be
seven when I moved EOS so really that’s a ch- it is still a child,
isn’t it, seven, wandering around the streets on your own EOS oh God
it is, yeah EOS and he was, s- seven, eight, n- he was only- he’d only
be eleven, so he wasn’t much older EOS yeah, so it’s still only young
isn’t it EOS it’s a big responsibility then for an eleven year old to
try and get EOS it’s easy to sort of, forget these things EOS it was
so funny, like, yeah, got, yeah, got sent home, so I- I always think
now that’s why I have a fear of getting lost EOS because I remember
being EOS in that place, not knowing where the heck I was, and it was-
is- it’s just a horrible feeling of just oh EOS what do I do EOS where
am I, you know, I- I don’t know how to get from here to where I need
to be, and I’m still like that, if I’m in the car and I’m EOS driving
and I take a wrong turn I panic something terrible EOS oh it must-
yeah, it must me associated with that, yeah EOS I’ve cried before now
when I’ve come off the motorway at the wrong EOS where am I going, and
I’m crying me eyes out, cos I don’t know where EOS and I’ve to find
meself back on meself, scare meself to death EOS oh right, no I- you
see I don’t get scared I just think, I’m useless, absolutely useless
EOS carry on a bit further and it’ll all make sense EOS and I’m sure
I’ll find where I am, and you usually do don’t you, y- cos you sort of
think- you see another sign or whatever EOS probably do yeah, well I-
I do anyway, if I do go off the beaten track, you do kind of- but I
just EOS yeah, but that’s probably why, probably goes back to then
doesn’t it EOS yeah, I just have this, such a fear of having to go
anywhere on my own and then not being able to find meself where I need
to go if I do EOS sort of take the wrong turning, or EOS get on the
wrong train, that f- that’s our **anon** you see, when we went to
Liverpool we got on the- we went- well, we got to Liverpool, we were
supposed to be going to Wales we got on the EOS we were supposed to be
going to Wales and we get on this train and we end up in Liverpool so
again, that was like, ‘oh God, where are we, why are we here’ EOS
**anon** at it, ‘don’t worry, don’t worry, we’ll find our way, we’ll
find our way’ EOS ‘well sort it, we’ll sort it’ EOS but it’s again,
it’s like I’m in the middle of this place thinking, ‘oh my God’ ‘well,
what train do we get now’ EOS yeah, well you sound as though you were
a bit more adventurous and had to go further, whereas I was always
just around Stretford if you know what I mean EOS didn’t really go
very far EOS and I think, looking at that one there- you’re making up
for it now you see there EOS making up for it now things about, how
has community and things changed, I think when we were younger, apart
from you going off to EOS and not getting home, erm, was everything
was around your own little area wasn’t it? yeah it was really yeah,
it- it was close EOS e- everything you did was sort of like EOS I
mean, w- with me it was sort of like, there was **anon**, the school
at the end, the church, you didn’t even have to get a bus really did
you EOS every- everything was EOS already in the road really EOS you
know, we, yeah, we used to go up to the precinct when that opened, but
that’s only about f- fifteen minute walk EOS but that was- that was
going- well that was, yeah, that was sort of, quite a distance EOS
again, that’s close isn’t it? but we’d go shopping in Manchester, so
we’d get- either go in the car or get the bus into Manchester, with my
Mum and Dad, you know when we EOS used to go to C and A for your new
clothes EOS so it was all, C- C and A, erm, or Altrincham sometimes we
used to get the bus to Altrincham, but it was mainly town, but other
than that EOS just going for things like that EOS you know, sort of
clothes for holidays and things, it was generally just everything
around where you lived EOS where you lived, it was always, yeah but
then there wasn’t the the choice then was there, you know what I mean
EOS you didn’t have like, things like the Trafford Centre or I mean,
the- the- they hadn’t even got the Arndale, they built that after we’d
moved, it was still Kings Street with all the little shops EOS oh
yeah, yeah EOS I can remember that, sort of the, you know, the old
shops along Kings EOS so when they- yeah EOS that’s right and then the
precinct was built EOS sort of, probably around the time you moved
then wasn’t it EOS must’ve been, yeah EOS yeah but we, erm, we were
always doing stuff for the church in terms of erm, delivering
Christian Aid envelopes, and collecting jumble, and, so EOS oh really,
yeah, so EOS yeah, just loads of our time, just, with your church EOS
just sort of spent doing things like that EOS and then my Dad did erm,
quite a bit for the Summer Fair and then the Christmas Fair and I can
remember one year, I don’t know whether I’ve told you this, we’d had a
Christmas Fair, and then he decided, for the next Christmas Fair he
was gonna make this really good grotto on the stage in the church hall
and he decided he was going to go to **anon**, cos we’d been there as
kids, you know, to see Father Christmas EOS cause it was always the
best place to see Father Christmas, **anon**, oh yeah, it was, in them
days, yeah, we used to go to- you always got a really nice gift at the
end of it EOS used to go to town, yeah, Christmas EOS and me Dad sort
of decided he was gonna go up there and try and get a- have a word
with one of the managers and ask, could he, erm, take away some parts
of the grotto EOS and rebuild it in miniature EOS very miniature, for
the ch- on the stage EOS oh right, for the- erm, so he did and it was
all like polystyrene sort of things, and anyway he built this sort of
little thing that Father Christmas sat inside the following year EOS
and everything, I can remember him bringing these bits back, bit-by-
bit in his car, cos he only had a car EOS his little building blocks,
and erm, storing them underneath the stage at the erm, church hall, in
**anon** EOS oh, good grief EOS and then the following Christmas he
got them all out, and built this EOS and, cos somebody dressed up, not
him, he never dressed up, somebody dressed up as Father Christmas and
that was our little- and that was your grotto EOS ahh, that’s nice EOS
so it was always sorta things like that really so nothing too EOS oh
and brownies, were you in brownies? erm, for about two weeks EOS you
st- why was it only for that long? I j- I just thought it was really
b- I think it must’ve been the brownies where we were going to EOS
yeah, I think it depends on, yeah EOS it just wasn’t being run, I
don’t think EOS as a Brownie EOS was it boring? yeah, it was terrible
EOS I just thought, why am I coming here, it’s- I’d go pff, I can’t
remember now what- why, if you ask me now EOS what- how it was boring,
but I just remember going, and thinking ‘right, that’s about it’ ‘I’ve
given in two weeks’ EOS can remember erm, the badges, I was mesmerised
by the ba- badges, and I- I wanted to be- I had this fixation EOS
being an angel, there was fairies, I wanted to be a fairy EOS cause
that was the prettiest badge EOS it was the nicest girliest badge, and
I wasn’t, I was an imp EOS cos they just select you for whatever EOS
and they go, ‘oh you’re-’ EOS oh as your group? ‘you’re imps’ yeah and
then I can remember years ago EOS what was it called, we never had
these when we were there, ‘the EOS what the hell were ‘the gillydoos’,
it was all imps and pixies and fairies when I was there EOS when
**anon** went many, you know EOS obviously, years later, and probably
when you were there **anon** EOS what the hecks a ‘gillydoo’ EOS there
was a what they called, a- a six EOS yeah, that’s right EOS a six
called the gillydoos, I never heard of a gillydoo EOS don’t know what
that is EOS no, so anyway, I want- wanted to be erm, in the fairies
EOS it’s a good job I wasn’t a bloke EOS erm, but I was an imp EOS oh
dear, never mind EOS well you stuck it out anyway, longer than me EOS
but no, I did stick it out so it must’ve been quite well run EOS but
again, that was in the church, every- everything was- everything EOS
my whole life, if I- if it- if they did it in the church hall, you
went to it EOS yeah and then me Dad did bingo, he used to do bingo for
OAPs EOS yeah and he got the old bingo machine from the **anon** when
they EOS he was always on the c- he’s on- he’s always on the EOS he’s
always on the catch EOS on the look out, yeah, on the catch EOS yeah,
yeah at- cos at first he did it sort of all home made, with erm, just
sort of blocks with EOS you know, you pull things out of the bag, and
then eventually had like a machine where it popped out EOS ooh, proper
rolling one EOS bit like on the l- national lottery EOS it’s still
working but obviously a bit old fashioned EOS but erm, no everybody, I
think they thought that was really good EOS what local events, news
history do you think it’s important people know about in your town?
think we’ve really got that much history really have we, I suppose, we
have Manchester, but EOS yeah, I mean you’ve got the- you’ve got the-
you’ve got the canals I suppose and everything haven’t we, but EOS the
ship canal EOS the ship canal EOS Manchester ship canal EOS yeah, it’s
mainly the hi- and Trafford Park’s got some history hasn’t EOS
Trafford Park, yeah, y- yeah, that’s right EOS the de Trafford family,
wasn’t it, and Trafford Park EOS yeah and the links with Manchester
really, I suppose EOS someone said erm, the Beatles played at Chassen
Park apparently EOS oh they did EOS yeah, yeah, I- I think I’ve got a
photograph, or it mentions that in one of my local history books, you
know the erm, Urmston I don’t wheth- was it- was Chassen or it
might’ve been was it not Davyhulme park EOS I’m not sure EOS but it
was somewhere EOS it was one of them, was it? I think I’ve heard that
before EOS oh, I didn’t know that EOS it was interesting EOS the
Beatles played EOS so it must’ve been just before they became EOS just
when they were- when they were at the Cavern EOS but they were just
starting to be discovered, and for some reason EOS yeah, and they’re
just going round the towns and EOS doing little local gigs EOS they
came here EOS ooh, I didn’t know that EOS yeah what are local people
like? well I th- I EOS I think they’re not too bad on the whole I
think in Urmston and Stretford but I think EOS I think people are just
quite down to earth really EOS they’re down to earth but I think they-
they tend to keep themselves to themselves, it’s not like EOS in the
old days where you’d know everybody, and like on our street, they
don’t make an effort of coming over and just sort of ga- having a chat
EOS they just sort of go in the houses and no EOS they might say, ‘oh,
hiya’ and that’s about it EOS that’s about it EOS yeah, I mean we fi-
I must admit, we find that here but I didn’t know whether that was
because it was a busy road and I think EOS yeah, it’s harder here
isn’t it cos you’re on- on a corner and it’s- when you’re on a roa-
yeah, cos obviously your neighbours across the road feel sort of
further away EOS quite apart aren’t you, quite wide apart EOS and then
we’re wide apart here, erm, I think it was different at **anon** but
whether that was because the kiddies were younger EOS so when you’re
walking to school, and obviously the school was only a few doors away
from EOS our house, so you did get to know lots of people EOS erm, so
yeah, I think it was different then, did you find that when you were
on **anon** or has yours never really been like that EOS no we were
all quite friendly, and like you say, when- when the kids were littler
and I was on the street more tend to stop and have a chat, but now
it’s just you get out of your car and you go in your house, just, do
you know what I mean, I suppose it’s my fault anyway, not making an
effort to go and speak to them as well, but EOS are they all- is it
ma- is it the same people a lot of them? yeah, a lot of them are the
same people EOS yeah, so perhaps they’ve all got to the a- you know,
the stage where the kiddies are grown up or they’ve moved out and EOS
oh, they’re all grandparents now EOS and they’re grandparents, yeah,
the- yeah, most of them EOS so they’re the same EOS cause you haven’t
had many houses up for sale on your road over the years have you, all
the t- not really, no EOS I mean you get an odd one EOS yeah, you get
an odd one, it- the- the one at the end’s been three times now up for
sale, and new people in it the very last one, on the EOS that’s had
quite a few people in it, erm, oh and next door but three’s now gone,
that one that’s been up for sale for ages, that’s now sold and there’s
new people in their now EOS saw the si- sold sign up there EOS so
**anon** moved out last weekend EOS and so there’s, new family in
there now so, I don’t know what they’re going to be like EOS they look
like they’ve got a young girl called **anon**, and they’ve got a dog
EOS he looks about our age I think EOS the guy, so EOS yeah, so over
the years really when you think there’s quite a lot of houses on that
road, there’s not been- but there’s not many comings and goings really
EOS erm, so, yeah, we all kinda do know each other but I think- I
think next door because they’re Irish and because they’re Irish and
because they’re Irish, they seem to take- talk a lot I think the Irish
are very friendly people EOS yeah, they are EOS they seem to do all
the ch- with each other though? do they tend to sort of, just sort of
stick together? yeah, they just said- yeah- they chat- you see them
outside chatting EOS together more I think EOS but I can’t understand
a word they say EOS I just c- well I m- I mean I’ve lived next to
**anon** for like how many years, I mean for goodness sake, twent-
twenty EOS oh God, it’s about twenty EOS twenty odd years and still
EOS if he talks to me I really have to listen really carefully EOS I
just cannot understand his l- now, his wife **anon** plain as- plain
EOS I can understand her, she’s, you know, she just talks to me and-
and there’s no problem but- but- but **anon**, no chance EOS it’s
like, ‘hang on a minute, hang on, hang on’ EOS no, I really have to
listen hard EOS and carefully to when he’s talking to me EOS yeah no,
I was tal- and they’re nice enough EOS I- I don’t know why but I think
I’d like to live somewhere that was more- a bit more community though,
would you, or? yeah, there’s not a l- a very good community sort of
spirit, we’re all- th- the neighbours are friendly enough, but no-
nobody ever EOS yeah, they’re all- everyone’s nice, everyone’s nice
round here, it’s not a problem EOS nobody ever does anything EOS but
there’s not you know, that same community thing, sometimes I think w-
w- would it be different if you lived in a little village but then,
would you perhaps be in each others pockets too much, would it- not
pockets, you know what I mean, yeah, yeah, everyb- it- w- would it
become a bit too intense, yeah, and people- in that everybody would
know everybody’s business EOS that’s right, yeah, it gets a bit too
much doesn’t it? cause I’m readi- at the moment I’m reading, erm, do
you know- do you remember the film, ‘the Calendar Girls’ EOS well,
there’s erm, an- a bi- a sort of biography that was written by one of
the women EOS who actually she was the best friend of the lady who
lost her EOS and they were- they were raising the money for the
hospital in his memory, and she’s the one who’d written the book ,
erm, and obviously they live in the dales- in the Yorkshire dales, in
a small village, and reading it, you know, you sort of think, ‘ooh, it
sounds brilliant, the- they’re all doing this together and they’re all
doing EOS and you sort of think, ‘ooh, I’d like to live in a village’
EOS but really would you like to live in a village EOS erm, I’d like
it from the community point of view, and I mentioned it to **anon**
the other day, in fact we were talking to **anon** about it EOS and
**anon** goes, ‘oh I just like it the way it is, it suits me fi-’ EOS
‘it suits me fine’ EOS but I think there’s something missing, really,
I’d like a bit more EOS yeah, just a little bit more, just to get
involved with something maybe in the li- on the village EOS yeah, a
bit of something, yeah EOS cause I suppose we used to do all that when
the kids were younger didn’t we with like, the scouts and the cubs,
we’d be EOS yeah, yeah, I don’t- fundraising and selling plants, and
EOS yeah, I don’t get meself involved with anything really EOS no, I
don’t EOS I suppose I should do really, that’s me being extremely lazy
EOS because you could still do that, you could still- you could w- I
think we make the excuse, or I- I know I make the excuses cos I work
full time EOS but you could, you could come home and just get changed
and go out and do something EOS and go out and do something, yeah EOS
but then it’s voluntary, and you think I’m committed, and I have to
keep doing it EOS whereas when it was the kids, you just said, ‘oh,
I’ll help out’ and y- it was- it was EOS yeah, I think- it was your
perogative whether you said yes or no EOS yeah, so you could do it EOS
you could do it EOS but you weren’t sort of thinking, ‘I’ve gotta do
it all the time’ EOS that’s right, yeah EOS it wasn’t a twenty-four
seven day in, sort of, week in, week out EOS yeah cos **anon** with
his, erm, thing with Age Concern, he erm, he has to really rush
somedays, which, you know, it’s fine when he’s not rushing but, to get
there, cos you’re letting someone down, they’ve come in for a EOS and
if, do you know, if he does that EOS so is it painting? does he still
do that? no, no, he erm EOS he does erm, I can’t remember what it’s
called now, anyway, older generation who want to learn how to use a
computer EOS oh yeah, that’s right, I remember, yeah, that’s nice EOS
so you remember, you- you gave him a reference, didn’t you? I did,
yeah, I th- I didn’t realise he was still doing that though EOS yeah,
he just waits EOS he’s just finished with a lady who’s erm, just been
erm, learning to use a computer, and they get about six one hour
sessions I think it EOS it’s an hour, an hour a half EOS oh, so is it
one person he deals with at a time? one person at a time, yeah EOS so
it’s for six weeks EOS it’s not a classroom full, it’s just one-to one
EOS it’s a one-to-one for six sort of weeks EOS and you’re sort of,
for about six weeks to give them sort of an EOS so is it of the
internet EOS or just computers or? it’s mainly most of them, it’s what
they want to use it for EOS but it’s mainly, erm, how to use the
internet EOS cause that’s what most of them want to do, some of them
want to do a little bit of word processing, using word EOS and- and-
and some, like the lady who **anon** seen recently, erm, she was about
ninety EOS but she’d previously used a keyboard, so that’s not too bad
EOS she used to type EOS so at least she’s starting with something EOS
whereas sometimes, somebody might be a bit younger, but they’ve never
even used a keyboard EOS that’s right, yeah EOS cause not all men
have, have they EOS no, oh no EOS particularly of a, you know, an
older generation might not have used a keyboard You need to count to five. One, two, three, four, five. And Veronica
**anon**. go on, it’s gonna be horrible this EOS One, two, three,
four, five. Yeah that’s fine, okay off you go EOS Er were there lots
of kids with you when you were playing up? Playing up, growing up EOS
Er not partic- not particularly cos I lived like down one of the back
streets, so I think there was about six kids on our road and they were
all different ages but we all still played together. Oh that’s- that’s
nice EOS what was the best or funniest memory from when you were
young? Erm funniest? I can’t think of a funny time EOS Erm oh when me
and **anon** and **anon** like they were my best friends when I was
really young and we were having a sleep over at mine. It’s not gonna
sound funny now EOS but erm having a sleepover at mine and I used to
have big glass doors going into the conservatory. And we pulled the
curtains across while **anon** went upstairs and closed the doors and
erm she was running away from something and ran straight into the
doors EOS and onto the floor it was very funny at the time EOS What
was yours erm funniest childhood memory then? I don’t think erm- I
don’t remem- remember having much memories of when I was a kid
actually. I genuinely don’t, I think I took too many knocks on my head
when I EOS I think one of the best ones is that- Mum told me the other
day, it was when she used to go down to spa at **anon** she used to
put me in my little trike, and I used to- she said I used to just
cycle along like this, going crazy with the li- the shopping in the
front basket, just going, peddling and peddling and peddling. I used
to think I was EOS So fast going everywhere, used to run everywhere.
How many sis- how many brothers and sisters do you have, do you get-
Er two sisters. Do you get along? Well we do at times like we have our
moments. We love each other on days and hate each other on other days.
Just cos we share a room I think it gets a bit intense at times. It’s
not too bad though is it? You just argue a hell of a lot EOS and
you’re all stubborn, it’s well annoying EOS What funny things are
there to do in your community? Not funny, fun EOS What- what did you
say? There’s not a lot to do but now like we’ve all got a bit older
and we can all start driving and stuff, we can obviously go further
away and there’s obviously quite a lot of things to do. Bit of golf
when it gets a bit boring. But no-one- no-one ever goes down with me
EOS You’re obsessed now with the driving range EOS There’s football
and stuff but whatever floats your boat really. I’m easily entertained
I think. Erm are you going on holiday this year? Yeah with you ! where
are you going? We’re going erm, to Catalonia in Greece. What, isn’t it
Catalonia? What’s it called? You said Cat- you said Catalonia. It’s
Catalonia, just- carry on! anyway we’re going Catalonia, on Tuesday
for a week. Erm it’s got like the blue lagoon and stuff and nice
beaches and EOS Hopefully it’ll be good weather for us. It’s ninety at
the minute. Ooh- ooh, can’t wait! Er what extra activities did you get
involved in at school? Erm trampolining at **anon**. Er we did- that’s
all I ever did trampolining and dance EOS were you a boring kid when
you were growing up? I wasn’t boring I was just er had other things to
do. No you say something you got to elaborate on it. What extra
curricular activities did you do? Erm, depends at primary school there
wasn’t much to do so I just did erm, played a bit of- dabbled in a bit
of rounders and EOS and then realised it’s for girls and then started
playing football more. And then mum used to drive me to swimming every
week and like that EOS Didn’t she used to make you go for runs? That
was later on, when she thought I was putting on a bit EOS Bit of a
slave-driver EOS What kind of games did you play as a kid? Erm it
depends where we went really, like at school there was always bulldog
and stuff,. I love bulldog? and football and catch EOS pretty boring
things tig what about you? erm, tig, but some people call it tag EOS
But I call it tig. Erm hopscotch, skipping erm British bulldog erm,
rounders, hide and seek EOS Hide and seek? Yes I played hide and seek,
all- in a square playground EOS it doesn’t ask what you played at
school. Ooh, oh right. . Erm what was the one where you had to get
back to a place? Like you were on two teams and one team had to catch
you before you got back to-. Manhunt. And that’s around it really. Ah
that’s good then EOS What do you remember from your first day at
secondary school? Or grammar whichever one. On the first day of
grammar I was like on the verge of having a panic attack, I was so
nervous! I was feeling really sick and like cos I’d like never been
with boys EOS I hadn’t been with boys for like five years cos I went
to an all girl’s school. Erm so it was just like really weird to go
into a different environment of like a mixed school. So I was nervous.
oh, it wasn’t that bad though, was it? Oh and **anon** fainted EOS in
assembly and I had to hold her up against the wall. Erm, I don’t know
it was the very first day of assembly and like we all line up around
the walls. Erm she just fainted in the middle of it. And I was having
to hold her up cos I didn’t know what to do, it was awful. I think I
cried a bit. cos she was my only friend and she’d fainted, it was
awful. How would you describe erm the local people? Yeah, you know,
like EOS Well, from where I live it’s quite rough at the end of my
road. But on my street itself it’s quite peaceful and nice. Erm
friendly, everyone says hello to each other like, known them all our
lives really. Erm but at the other end of the road-. The dark side of
the road. It’s a bit different . Come to the dark side! No it’s scary
at the other end of the road. Like when you walk past, like they don’t
look at you, they don’t like give you that little smile that other
strangers might do, it’s weird. Oh right, okay, did- did you ever go
caravanning when you were a kid or camping? I used to go camping, yeah
and we used to travel France. Erm camp- going Eurocamp with the
family. But never really did caravanning. Didn’t you? Yeah we were
hardcore caravanners EOS We were! I remember the first one we went to,
we went to Dorset and erm, in the middle of the night, this dog
started barking on the campsite EOS and we looked out the window and
there was erm- the ca- caravan opposite was on fire cos so- Are you
joking? No someone had a chip pan and they had a fire and they put the
wrong blanket over and it just went, ‘.’ EOS Up in smoke and the a-
the awning was going crazy and the guy was out EOS Did the fire
brigade come? Yeah they did, obviously cos it was a fire EOS oh, no
necessarily, it could have been a small one. No it was really good
one, it was a good holiday that actually, we went erm on fossil beach.
Not fossil beach it’s like a beach with all like erm clay, and erm it
had like, what are they called? The little snail things that they had.
Dinosaurs, the little- what are they called? No they’re n- they’re
animals I’m trying to think what they’re actually called. Oh it
doesn’t matter. Did you move house at all when you were younger? What
memories do you have of this? Erm I did move house when I was younger
cos I was born in Salford and- but I- I think I moved when I was about
two so I don’t really remember much of it. But we had some- I remember
showing you some videos of when I was younger as a kid at **anon**.
And mum used to have this- it used to have towers of pots that stacked
up on top of each other. And we used to have a chair in the- like in
the corner of the room and Dad used to push the- this old pot thing
and it used to roll round the chair. And I used to be amazed by it and
he must’ve been doing it for about half an hour, I was like, just
watching it go round and round, I was amazed. Couldn’t get my hands on
it I was just like, ‘no!’ Have you ever moved house at all? Er yeah we
moved from twenty two to fourteen, just down the road, erm, cos the
new hou- for like- tw- like from twenty two and onwards they’d already
been built, and the house we moved into was erm had been like a new
build. Erm so my mum was pregnant so we had to move into a bigger
house. Erm I loved the old house I remember- I just remember having
like erm a little tea set with erm little red love hearts on, erm and
I remember had- shut up EOS I didn’t say anything EOS We had erm- in
the old house we had like, what’s it called? Cement, and we just moved
in at the very start. And the cats walked through it so we wrote EOS
**anon** and **anon** in the cement and we had like a special
personalised gate, which had **anon** on the top cos that was my dad’s
football team and erm the cat’s name, but I only just got that back
like this year from my dad cos we left it there when we moved house.
It was really good. nice, erm what th- what things- no, what local
events do you think it’s important people know about in your town? you
know, the us- usual stuff that goes on, you know like markets and EOS
we have some erm- what are they called, car boot sales that we used to
have in like a little town hall. That was good that brought the
community together. Er I don’t really understand the question I don’t
think. We have the May fair. And you get the May fair queen and my
little sister was the queen one year. And you have to wear- and
there’s like floats and stuff, that go EOS Oh like down **anon** and
stuff? I’m sure my cousin’s . What about you? Erm there’s none really
round here, is there? Th- the- did the- oh, there’s the s- skiing
thing EOS that’s happening at the chill factor and it’s quite a erm
big place. Oh and yeah obviously we have Chassen Park round the
corner. And erm I think it’s every Sunday they have erm the little toy
trains that go out. steam train- Steam trains EOS The steam trains and
people jump on them and they go round. And I always think with United
being so close, I think it’s good when events go on there. Because
it’s big and it gets a lot of people EOS I don’t know what you’re
talking about EOS I don’t think that answers the question but okay. Do
you have to help out around the house a lot, or not? Yeah I do. .
You’re made to do it though aren’t you? Oh, we’re made to do it you
have to do like the mopping the sweeping, the- helping out with the
cooking, which I don’t mind cos I like that. Then we have to do the
pots every night and make our own beds, Mum doesn’t do our room any
more, unlike some. My mum loves me! Feral child. my mum loves me erm,
but like we all get spends for doing different chores. so it was good
EOS I used to get spends but she stopped that when I moved out, like,
‘no you’re not having that any more.’ EOS How about you do you do
chores around the house? No not really, I think I’m quite lucky in
that respect I just sit around doing nothing EOS and Mum runs round
after everybody EOS She always complains about it though no-one ever
makes her do it. She always does it herself. It’s every Sunday, like
when you’re finally- you know when you’re coming back from half-term
and you’re going back to school on the Sunday she’s stressing out
she’s like, ‘oh- oh have you got your dinner have you got your dinner,
have you got your money, have you cleaned- have you packed your bag,
have you packed your bag?’ EOS And she gets herself in like a little
panic and starts like getting mad at everybody. It’s like, ‘chill out
for a minute!’ EOS where are your parents from? That’s a good question
EOS I don’t know, I think they both went to erm- both from **anon** I
think. Yeah Dad used to live down near **anon**, down that way. And I
don’t know where my mum used to live. Actually my mum might’ve used to
live down near the cemetery in **anon**. And she went to school with
erm **anon** dad, as well EOS she was in couple of years below. And I
think they know each other actually. Yeah where are your mum and dad
from? Er I think my dad’s from **anon**, I don’t- I’ve never known him
to live anywhere else. Erm and I think my da- mum’s from **anon**, ish
EOS good on her, good on her, all my family are from round here though
actually. Like my nanna’s from **anon** I think. I think that’s about
it, that’s how foreign I am EOS Aren’t you like half **anon** or
something? I’m not **anon** I’m like, heritage wise like my Grandma-
well my Nanna EOS my granddad was **anon**, my other grandma was
**anon**. My granddad was- well is-. He’s- well no he’s half Scottish
or Irish, think it’s Scottish, which is the one that wears kilts. he’s
Scottish then, no cos we have our own erm, does he just- does he just
walk around wearing a kilt all the time EOS No but we have our own
what’s-it-called, what’s the material the kilt’s made out of? You know
that pattern? Tartan we have our own **anon** tartan. That’s a lie EOS
no, it’s not EOS Do you have any pets at the moment or-? Er yeah I’ve
got a dog called **anon**, full name **anon**. No we’ve got **anon**
and the rabbit, **anon**. That just gets like left out in the cold EOS
for no love. You don’t have any pets do you? No I don’t, I don’t have
any middle names or anything, my parents ju- . What’s that got to do
with anything? No, no, no- no, cos like you’ve got- you got- you’ve
got pets and stuff and I just get nothing. And like I remember when I
was growing up I always wanted to have a middle name like. I don’t
know why I just thought it’d be cool to have a different middle name
EOS what’s that got to do with pets? Cos I don’t have- I’m not allowed
any pets and I wasn’t allowed a EOS Oh my god . That’s how it goes.
You’ve got some strange middle names haven’t you? Isn’t **anon** isn’t
she? I saw it on her passport the other day I was like, ‘hang on a sec
**anon**?’ EOS She used to get so bullied for it. But not now she just
hates it, and then mine’s **anon** and **anon** is **anon**. So
they’re not weird. What’s that after? See mine’d be Rory **anon** EOS
Yeah thanks for that I don’t even know what my dad’s name was
actually, so- no- Wouldn’t your dad’s name have been the same? And
your mum’s name be EOS No my dad’s, dad’s name, that’s not what you
said EOS Yeah I don’t know what- I never met them, you see EOS You-
you got the chance to meet them. What was your school like? Did you
enjoy school? Which one? Which one? Er it was okay, it was just- it
was a bit of a dump to be honest. It was like on the corner of a road
and EOS you get all the little scally mums coming with their kids with
big Mac meals in the morning, in MacDonald’s bags, it was horrible.
But it wasn’t too bad, I was glad to get away. All the kids were
idiots as EOS No you hear stories like all of them, like there’s one
that lives behind me and he’s er he’s nearly been kicked out of his
house a few times. He’s been in trouble with police and stuff. And
just random stuff like that. I was lucky to get away from it EOS I
think, what was yours like? I- I loved **anon** it was amazing. Erm I
think it’s changed quite a lot now. But at the time it was just really
good, it had really nice people there, everyone was really friendly.
it like- the people there like were of all different types. Like some
were a lot rougher than others but when- like I didn’t really notice
it at such a young age, like I was friends with anyone and everyone.
And I still would be but I didn’t really notice it, but now when you
walk past you can see the difference between EOS some of the kids and
it is quite rough. Yeah I just hated our school cos th- you realise as
you get older, kids just take the mick out of anything. Like
everything it’s unreal. I remember one day, I w- went into school with
a cold sore on my lip. And I was like- yeah they’re horrible I know,
but. And this guy’s going, ‘why’ve you got spaghetti Bolognese on
you?’ EOS I’m like, ‘it’s- it’s in the morning, why would I be having
spaghetti Bolognese in the morning? And it just doesn’t dry on my lip
like EOS I used to hate it EOS But it was nice when everyone was
obviously friendly and stuff but you don’t realise it when you’re a
kid cos you’re so naïve at how stupid people were EOS And how easy it
is to get dragged into random social circles and EOS Like I think I
was lucky going to **anon** instead of **anon**. Cos you see all the
different- all the lads that went there it’s- I know they’re not- most
of them are really nice but they’re just more prone to danger not- or
not danger but trouble. How was **anon**? **anon**, what’s the
question? How was it? It was good. there was quite a lot of bullying
but like you kind of just got on with it, like EOS like, no matter
where you go there’s always gonna be people who bully. But at the same
time like you meet loads of good people there, and so long as you get
in the right friendship group, then it was EOS I went through about
four, but EOS I think we were lucky with bullying at **anon**. It was
always EOS dead friendly and stuff and EOS You always thought the ha-
they’re rough people when they didn’t hand their homework in EOS Not
hitting teachers and stuff. ‘oh, you got a detention’ . what is your
best or funniest memory from when you were EOS Erm I’m sure you’ve
asked me this one before, but-. No what is your best memory? I’ll
answer it again. Not your funniest. My best memory. Erm I don’t know,
not fr- I can’t remember much of my life, up until like, after year
five EOS I can’t remember anything before that really. But erm- I- I
know this is gonna make me sound sad but I remember when I was in year
five and I got picked to play for the year six football team, and I
was well EOS First person to do it through our school, and I was
chuffed with that. I just EOS used to love football so, what was
yours? Erm best memory was probably like when we used to go camping in
France, and erm, it was just like the whole experience. Like when we
were driving down, me and my dad u- well we all used to listen to like
th- all the old school music and I used to sit in the front with my
dad, to try and keep him- like to help him stay awake, and there was a
time whenI don’t know cos I was asleep but I’d- I’d fallen asleep EOS
and songs were still playing but I was still singing with my dad, even
though I was asleep. And like we used to go canoeing a lot. And then
erm it was like, you were going down in your canoe. And there was a
castle on one side, and you just think you’re going straight, and the
next minute you realise the castle’s gone on the other side and it
just used to feel like, proper magical. It was so good. But the only
thing was, every time we used to go, we used to fight, with my
sisters, like proper- get into proper screaming matches, like in this
canoe EOS Just throwing each other overboard. literally we used to
have so many water fights, and not the EOS But with bad water EOS no,
but no you know like just like playful splash, but this was like,
strangle splash EOS trying to drown each other. But like it kind of
just made it, like when we went a couple of years ago, like I couldn’t
wait to go canoeing again, just to see if it- if it was the same, it
was really good. Did you ever get hurt when you were fighting in the
water? No. We did nearly er- not drown, but get into quite a bit of
danger once, cos me and **anon** had been erm dec- we were in a canoe
by EOS so we decided to get out, cos it was hot, and just hold on to
the canoe. But somehow we managed to lose the canoe. So we were just
floating in this river going downstream. And like, there was rapids
coming up. And then my dad had to like, swim over and like drag us to
the side, and then we had to catch up with the other canoe, like later
on in the stream. It was pretty dramatic, but-. Rescue mission
hopefully . We never used to do anything like that. I think I remember
for year seven birthday, went erm rock- abseiling with my uncle. We
went EOS that was the only thing scary. I’d never do that. Isn’t that
where you go in like, little holes? Yeah it was pretty scary. No, no I
couldn’t do that, claustrophobic. Although my brother- when we- when
we went, **anon** came along with us and he was- dunno how old he was,
he must’ve been about eight or something, he had his- you know those
trainers you used to get with lights on, and we- he kept hitting the
bottom of his shoes so they lit up EOS for that split second. So we’d
know we were okay. But other than that it was good. Did you ever get
her- hurt- did you ever get hurt whilst playing when you were a kid?
Yeah a few times, remember once when my dad’s- some guy my dad used to
work with, his kid came round for the day and we used to have one of
those plastic slides in the back. And it used to feel so big when you
were up there, but he’s a little kid who’s younger than me, and he
pushed me over the edge EOS of the top of the slide and I broke my
collar bone. oh my God EOS Did you? Didn’t know that. didn’t know that
EOS Yeah, and I was in hospital obviously, I was a crip EOS for a few
weeks EOS What do you have to do if you break your collar bone, do you
get like- It’s just a sling, you don’t- you’re not even in a cast, I
think it’s just a arm sling. I can’t remember though and I remember
when I was learning to ride the bike, I- I- and I can picture exactly
where it is on the street as well, riding my bike I was going along
and all of a sudden I just went- like fell on my side, and I don’t
know why and I hit- hit my head on the tree and it killed EOS And I
remember playing in the back and I tripped over and I hit my side of
me head on the little fence panel thing, the concrete fence panel on
the side of that. And my friend got sent home. it’s like, ‘I think
you’d best go home now, he’s hurt.’ He was like, ‘okay.’ I blamed it
on him, so- . Did you ever used to have kids round your house when you
were younger? At like primary school, for tea? Yes. My house was the
house to be- to be at, it was so good like, we always used to have
like- like one night a week me **anon** and **anon** used to go for
each- each other’s house for tea. And then erm we always used to have
Halloween parties. Which used to like- I think I’d still be scared now
EOS like we- we had like the catflap that goes out to the outside of
the house and my dad stuck his hand out like with the glove on and my
dad just like when people were coming round, ‘I’ve lost my glove, if
you notice it, like let me know. And like just bring it in to the
house.’ And then we put erm, nuts or something down the side of the
house, and it was all dark and we were walking down, and my mum was
like, ‘oh these are the cockroaches, don’t worry about them.’ EOS And
like, now it doesn’t sound scary but like it was and then erm someone
went to go grab the glove. And my dad grabbed her hand and literally I
think it was **anon**, It was so awful . And then we had like a hole
in the table and my dad’s head was un- like up through the hole but he
had like a something covering it, so when you went to get your piece
of cake or whatever was meant to be under there, and me Dad’d be like,
‘blar- with a mask on or something, it was really good. So erm- we
always used to have like birthday parties and have magicians and stuff
over, it was good EOS I remember my birthdays as a kid. Think- think
the one I remember the most we had erm- erm what’s it called now?
Bouncy castle in the back EOS and it absolutely hammered it down that
night. And the guy was sat in his van for about three hours waiting
for it to die down, he was just like this, ‘ahh’ EOS Everyone had gone
home already and he was just there for about three EOS Waiting for the
weather to go, it was good. I used to love birth- kid’s birthday
parties. You used to get so many random toys and stuff EOS And the
party bags afterwards, yeah, little bits of cake EOS they were
amazing. You used to always get like little whistles and EOS Yeah and
sweets and stuff. The little ball things. I remember we used to go
**anon** and for dessert we always used to get erm vanilla and
strawberry cake- no not cake erm, ice cream EOS and with erm jelly as
well, oh it was horrible but it was so good as a kid, so much sugar at
once EOS did you not have any parties like that? I remem- remember
once when JJB first opened and you know they had a little play area
there? And they had the- the one half of a football pitch and someone
had- er someone invited me to their party there, said they were having
it at JJB. So I was saying to Mum, ‘oh, it’ll be a football party.’ So
I had my- had my whole football kit on, my shin pads and everything. I
went there, we were in the bloody play area, I looked like I’d been
padded up for war rather than for playing tig in the play area. I was
running round with my shin pads on and stuff EOS I was safety proofed.
Was that, was it alphabet zoo? oh, in Sale EOS The one that used to
have the big blue slide. That was like nearly- well felt vertical I
don’t know if it was. Oh it was amazing and there was erm-. You had to
get in those sacks didn’t you? to go in it EOS It was so good and you
used to have those big like- what are those like cylinders and you had
to squeeze through the two of them? And then they used to have one
where you used to have to go through like four but kids used to get
stuck in there, so they had to close it down, like that area. Because
like ch- yeah kids were getting stuck in there. I remember when- I was
always so scared to go through them. I had a birthday party there and
you used to- you always used to sit on there. And we’ve got a video at
home and I had a stiff neck. Oh my EOS no, I couldn’t move, I was at
the end of the table like, ‘urgh!’ EOS trying to blow my candles out
like ‘’ not moving my neck at EOS that’s so funny EOS But when- when
they did that they- they did erm- used to play party games up there as
well. And seeing myself dancing as a kid, oh my god it must’ve been so
embarrassing. Like, ‘that’s not my kid there!’ EOS And they used to
get the inflatable slide out for you as well, when we’d all finished
and stuff EOS Yeah so when you finished the party and went down the
slide. bouncing down feeling sick going, ‘argh!’ EOS Food coming up. I
used to- I don’t think I ever went down that blue slide. Think I was
too scared. I think I might’ve b- I think I might’ve been once. I
loved it. It’s like a vertical drop! break my neck or something EOS it
was amazing and you went to the ball pool at the bottom. and do you
remember the massive ball pool and you could like hide EOS Yeah, and
then get stood on. It was so good. Yeah EOS Oh that’s a risk you’ve
got to take when you’re playing hide and EOS I used to love that I
absolutely used to love it. We should go. I- I miss being a- it’s
closed down EOS Yeah, I miss being a kid when you’re- you see some
stuff and you’re just like- and you see like your toys now and you’re
like, ‘how did I play with them for so long?’ EOS Yeah like Barbies,
like, Oh well maybe not you, but maybe like Ken or something or action
man. But like literally you’d play for hours. And what do you do with
just EOS I remem- yeah- I- I was biker mice from mars and power
rangers, mine were EOS I used to have a little power rangers doll that
my cousin got from erm, I think it was Russia. And I slept with it for
ages EOS and I remember when I thought, ‘right I’m going into
secondary school EOS ‘I need to get rid of it.’ EOS And I remember it
used to take me about an hour to get to sleep EOS but it was horrible,
I know EOS it’s not as bad as my brother though, when he was in like
year six, he went to the- the bear factory and got a- a stuffed cat.
that’s sad, mine was a power ranger. His was a cat EOS erm describe
your least favourite teacher. Least favourite teacher, oh **anon**. Oh
my god he was so annoying he was so patronising. What did he teach?
Chemistry, it was- oh he used to froth at the side of the mouth EOS he
looks like a rat EOS Like he was really nice if you wanted to do well
but I remember in A- level chemistry, he just annoyed me. And he was
so patronising. Cos I couldn’t do it, I got into A-level and I
thought, ‘yeah I got an A at- in science in gcse.’ EOS then you go
into chem.- chemistry doing A-level like going, ‘wait a minute I don’t
actually know anything about science.’ EOS I used to absolutely hate
him. What’s yours? Erm I’ve always got on with all my teachers, I was
a goody two shoes but I remember in erm **anon** not **anon** erm
**anon** there was this really like chubby lady teacher that er had
really dark, curly hair. And erm she was always screaming at all the
kids. And you’d hear her like three rooms down. So you were always EOS
you were always really scared, like to speak to her. And one day I had
to go and like tell her something, I was like sent from class to go
tell her. And I was like stood behind her waiting for her to finish
talking, but she started walking backwards and she fell on top of me.
And I was literally like tiny EOS when I was little and I was just
laid underneath her and this massive woman was like on top of me. But
she couldn’t get up EOS And people had to help her up and I just
thought like, ‘I could never live this down,’ EOS I wouldn’t ever
speak to her again she was so scary. Can you imagine it though, like
this massive woman like tipping over on top of EOS Just like a turtle,
not being able to get up EOS it’s like, ‘’. Did you ever used to do
show and tell at EOS Er yeah we always used to. Erm I don’t remember
what I brought, I used to love it though. I think I w- in year six I
remember bringing in my hamster EOS but, no I used to- and it was so
strange cos everyone picked like- brought in these interesting
animals, and I brought in a bloody EOS The only interesting story was
it tried to escape once EOS The most boring pet life ever EOS You were
only ever allowed that, weren’t you? You’ve not had anything else, pet
wise? I’ve had a couple of goldfish from school fairs and stuff EOS I
used to love our school fairs. They were really good. You used to have
your little, erm, your sponge to throw at your teachers and stuff.
Yeah did you not have that? Oh you were from **anon**, they were
probably throwing rocks at EOS Yeah but when you were a kid, no-one
could hit the teachers so it was a pretty safe bet of doing it, wasn’t
it? And sports day as well. I loved sports day. and I remember the
sports day that we had in **anon**, we used to have osprey, eagle,
hawk and kestrel little team- teams that you were in. How do you
remember? It was four birds it’s not hard EOS Well it could’ve been
pigeon or something EOS Why do you want pigeon as a team it’s just EOS
‘I’ll go pigeon’ EOS No it’s like lots of different types of birds,
it’s kind of good to EOS Yeah it was it was really fun though. Did you
ever used to have that erm- like the two different buckets, one was
filled with water and one wasn’t and you used to have like containers
with holes in EOS and you had to like fill it up and run really quick,
and fill it up cos it was like leaking, and it was your team that erm-
sorry and your team had to get like the most water in the bucket, like
the quickest EOS We were never that equipped as a school EOS Our
school was so bad it was unreal. Did you ever get into trouble for
something at school? Not rea- no EOS Were you ever blamed- were you
ever blamed for something that wasn’t your fault? Er I never really
got into trouble in primary school, I used to be like really good. And
th- there’s a picture in the reception, I’m not su- sure if it’s still
there. And someone took a picture of our class when we were in year
one and everyone else was like- like talking and laughing. And one of
them- I remember one of the guys, he was round the camera like doing
tongue out like that at the camera, and I was there in the- in the
corner with my lip, my finger against my lip and I was just EOS I used
to sit like that. I must’ve sat like that for about four years just
like, ‘yes’ EOS proper goody two shows EOS I used to be scared of
getting in trouble I think. But I remember in year six when we had
erm, after the eleven plus and we got pay back time. And we got to do
like fun stuff outside. And didn’t do any lessons. I remember we were-
me and three other lads were talking, we had to go and sit outside and
do a bloody reading assessment. It was so annoying and everyone else
was sewing, as g- as sad as that sounds EOS did you ever used to- we
had to make these- our own little erm pencil EOS And do the little
sewing patterns on it, it was really good. Thanks, I used to hate
getting in trouble though. I remember when I got my first detention at
**anon**. I forged the signature- like the signature so me mum
wouldn’t find out. I used to hate it. What was your detention for? Erm
having a naked pen in foundation studies. You know the one that you’d
turn it round and the- the bikini costume EOS It was **anon**- it was
**anon** br- brother’s and he’d robbed it and brought it in. And me,
**anon** and **anon** used to sit in a three. How old were you? We
were in year seven, so like twelve EOS **anon** brought it in and me
and **anon** were just like, ‘aargh!’ EOS staring at this pen. And the
teacher came up and was like, ‘what’s that?’ And we were like,
‘nothing nothing!’ EOS And we all had to stay- we had a a half an hour
detention at dinner EOS Oh that’s awful. that’s so funny EOS I felt
like a badass after that though EOS Going round like nothing could
touch me, it was just, ‘I’ve got a detention, so what?’. Did you get
in trouble? Er no cos like I said I was always a goody two shoes so
when- Even at secondary school? Even at secondary school. Ev- everyone
got like- you know like you used to get class detentions, for
everybody speaking? They always used to like pull me up at the end and
say, ‘don’t bother coming back for the detention at the end of the
day.’ I was like, ‘yes!’ EOS Bet everyone hated you EOS ‘why isn’t
Veronica **anon** here?’ and I was like, ‘well, I’m good’ EOS and then
er at primary school, whenever anyone used to get in trouble and like
need an alibi, erm, they always used to come to me and say, ‘tell them
that I didn’t do this,’ EOS ‘tell them I was somewhere else.’ And I
would be like- cos I was always cool with the boys EOS and erm, there
was this guy called **anon** and like you know like at primary school
you weren’t allowed to swear or anything? And erm he called a dinner
lady something like a rude word EOS and- or like threw rocks at her or
something like that EOS And erm he came up to me and he was like,
‘Veronica **anon** I’m going to get expelled you have to like, lie for
me.’ And I was like, ‘oh no but you’re a boy so okay.’ EOS And I was
like, ‘no he was here with me we were reading.’ And then like, they
completely believed me and then the teacher- well the dinner lady got
in trouble. Got sacked yeah lying EOS she did for ma- for making like
allegations, but she was a horrible dinner lady anyway. That was like
the worst thing I ever did. I remember our dinner ladies we used to-
there always used to be like the ty- the stereotypical nasty one that
they were always scared of EOS and then there was a nice one as well
that didn’t care EOS just like- oh and we used to have our wet day
books. When it was raining outside and we had to draw pictures inside
it. They were like the most boring EOS lunchtimes of my life, cos we
used to have- I loved drawing. We used to have our- I think it was- we
had an hour and I think it got split into like when you were in year
three and up, you could- as soon as you’d finished you could go out.
And have your dinner but when you were in like reception to year two
you had to wait ‘til half past EOS before you could go out. And we
used to have to just draw in these books and it was so boring. It was
unreal EOS There’s only so many times I can draw stick men EOS or play
noughts and crosses with myself EOS erm, can you remember a good story
that your parents slash grandparents used to tell you? Not so much no.
I don’t- no, er my granddad died when I was younger EOS so- I- like I
said I can’t remember anything from when I was younger EOS And my
nanna- she doesn’t know what day it is, so EOS so not really, no.
There’s some interesting ones that you listen to when you’re growing
up but- nothing like major. That sticks, yeah. Yeah, have you? Not
really interesting or good, it’s just-. Do you- do you remember when
your granddad made everyone believe that he got shot in the war? That
was what I was gonna say EOS well, my n- like when they were in the
war like my grandma and granddad like, they were ov- over in Germany.
And er my nanna actually did get shot and erm- a bomb exploded and the
shrapnel like went all in her skin and stuff. But she was okay,
survived, rah, rah, rah, but my granddad had a massive hole in his
neck and he told us all that erm, he’d been shot in the neck in the
EOS Erm told my mum, mum believed it for fifteen, twenty odd years.
However long it was and we believed it up un- like, up until a couple
of years ago. And he it just came out one day, saying like he didn’t
really get shot and had an operation. I was like, ‘how can you tell us
our entire lives that you’d got shot and made us think like you’re
some hero,’ EOS and he just wasn’t. He just had like some an removed
or something for whatever reason it EOS You was gullible though EOS No
but you should’ve- you’ve seen the hole. Like- it’s like a good thumb
like in to his neck. It’s weird. do you not think he would have died?
I- I- When you think about it now, but like you wouldn’t really doubt
it if you’d been told-. Did your dad know that it wasn’t real? Er I
don’t know, maybe. My- my parents never used to play tr- tricks on me.
I just used to cry if they did . You’re such a baby. I remember when
we used to go to Macro and erm they used to have the erm escalators
that were flat. Oh I love those. I remember- I never used to remember
going erm, to the airports when I was a kid and I u- I just used to
run up and down and up these escalators cos they were flat I was like,
‘yay!’ EOS But now you see them at asda and they’re just annoying EOS
Especially when they say, ‘you’re approaching the landing Please take
care!’ EOS Where else have you been on holiday then, is it just France
and EOS When we were little we’ve been to- used to travel France like
I said, and er we’ve been to lots of different places in Greece, erm
America a couple of times, erm trying to think. I’d love to go to
America. It’s amazing the food’s amazing, really EOS Why cos there’s
just loads of it? pretty much! Like at breakfast you’d have like the
proper American pancakes, scrambled eggs, bit of crispy bacon, syrup,
and like you think , ‘how disgusting does that sound?’ It’s not. They
must put something in there just to make you think it’s nice EOS but
it’s really nice and the burgers. Like when me and mum used to go when
we- when I was younger, to visit her brother, erm we just used to have
to share a meal because EOS I couldn’t physically eat one and it was a
waste of money and mum would never eat it all so we always used to
have to share, but erm EOS super large portion. We used to go to this
place called er the Crab Bucket, or something, and you used to just
get like a massive bucket of unlimited crab EOS And that was amazing.
Oh it sounds it yeah EOS It was really nice. Was it like our KFC? They
have crab claws we’ve got Kentucky fried chicken EOS No it was really
good, what about you? Erm when I was younger I used to go to Majorca a
couple of times but then we gave up on that side of things EOS And got
the caravan EOS And then we used to go to Dorset and Cornwall and
remember the trips to Cornwall, were over like thirteen hours, just
stuck in traffic EOS That’s when dad decided to invest in some erm DVD
players for the EOS so we wouldn’t get too bored. Then he used to
shout at us telling us to ‘turn it down, it’s distracting him while
his driving’ EOS And the classic, ‘if you don’t shut up I’ll turn
round!’ EOS Fifteen hours in. and then- and then later on we’ve
ventured to France and that’s when I got too tall for the caravan and
got kicked outside into a tent. On my own. That was the last straw I
think I was like, ‘I’m not going back.’ And then later on we went to-
back to Spain I think, for the last- Oh we went to **anon** as well in
Lanzarote. Like a sports complex. Could not have a hot summer holiday
like that though. No it wasn’t a summer holiday it was in April
though, was in like April, March for Easter holiday. Yeah but th-
wasn’t that your main holiday? No I don’t think so. I’m sure it was
EOS Probably went caravanning after it. No I used to be sca- I used to
hate like flying though. Cos like- like when you’re going up and it
like drops that bit, when it’s going up. I love it. Man it makes me
stomach turn upside down. Me mum’s always like ‘oh!’ EOS the only one
on the plane that’s screaming EOS I went round my auntie and uncle
when they took erm her daughter- their daughter and her husband and
they were filming her when my auntie, when she was taking off. Oh my
god she looked like she was having a panic attack, like, white knuckle
ride gripping onto the- onto the side EOS Just like head straight back
into the seat and it was like, ‘please don’t take off, please don’t
take off!’ it was so funny but it’s just weird it runs in the family
stuff like that. Like I won’t- I won’t go on rollercoasters. That’s
cos of your mum. Unless- unless there’s peer pressure on me EOS l- if-
peer pressure’s the worst thing, like when we went camping, I wouldn’t
have gone into the lake if no-one else did. Mm, it was freezing .
Yeah, I was really tempted to go in but I didn’t get enough EOS I get-
I- I always get scared of like erm when I’m swimming in the sea, even
when- no when it’s quite deep, like- I dunno I just like picture
getting dragged down by something EOS Like a shark or something. Yeah.
Even though I know it wouldn’t happen. I don’t like being out of my
depths in the sea. But I don’t know why, it’s scary, when I can’t see
the bottom it’s- freaks me out. Like I used to be scared when we used
to go on the ferries to France, like if it crashed, and I was always
thinking, ‘well you’d die wouldn’t you? You wouldn’t be able to get
out.’ EOS I was scared. It’s me mum that EOS And like if you go to
like Greece or somewhere, like the- the sea’s proper crystal clear,
and you can see everything. So it’s no too bad, I remember when we
went to Bulgaria with the lads, the sea there was horrible. Like it
was really hot EOS but it was just filled with jellyfish and rubbish
and- you couldn’t really go in it. And it was all dirty and it was
horrible. So not a big fan of seas. Well I am but-. ni- only nice
ones. If it- yeah. I don’t think I’d ever go in seas here, like they
must be so cold. Yeah the amount of just rubbish that’s in it, it’s
horrible. Y- you see little scraggy kids just weeing in it don’t you
EOS That is their toilet in Blackpool it’s- it’s- ‘do you need the
toilet?’ EOS No, but like everyone used to pee in the pool when they
were a kid and stuff and like-. Yes you did EOS First I’ve heard of it
EOS I don’t mean like ten year old kid, I mean like smaller. When you
were- when you were younger, I know. Just kidding, just EOS right,
erm- go on, right, go on, what were you gonna say? I was gonna ask a
question. I was just gonna say- it doesn’t matter, I- I was just gonna
carry on the conversation but ask me a question, I’ll answer it EOS Do
you want me to ask- ask you a question? Erm . There’s- I- I w- I’m
just gonna carry on with my conversation EOS Like I hate how my mum
and dad used to- well my mum especially used to EOS make me scared of
like, loads of random things. Like rollercoasters EOS sh- cos she was
always like, ‘don’t go near the edge you might die!’ EOS And when
you’re a kid you’re like, ‘will I?’ EOS And it kind of sticks with
you, doesn’t it, and like EOS subconsciously you don’t realise it and
then- Are y- are you not an animal lover then? Oh I love animals, they
just don’t seem to love me. . No er it’s completely different like, in
my family. Like- like, my mum was always scared but my dad was always
erm encouraging me. Like to go on rollercoasters and EOS like proper
like, ‘seek the thrill’ EOS Which I still do now. like I remember when
we went to ‘Go Ape’ in- first time we went to France. I did the first
one. But I remember getting stuck on like- there’s like a skateboard
EOS and you have to attach yourself to the top of it. And you got to
make sure your karabiners are the right way round. And I attached one
of them the wrong way. And I was sliding down and li- I got like a
quarter of the way across on this skateboard EOS that was really
loose, I was holding on for dear life. And I realised I couldn’t go
any further cos one of my karabiners was stuck round the other pieces
of EOS and I was like, ‘no!’ Like felt like I was gonna die up there
So I had to drag myself back and unhook myself. And I think I was
scared form then on. Yeah. Like I dragged you ‘go ape’ the other- like
EOS couple of months ago didn’t I? Was it that scary then? Yeah it was
pretty scary EOS I’m not gonna lie. I’m not a big fan- I’m not a big
fan of heights EOS You’re not a big fan of anything. Well I am it’s
just like heights, I just dunno- I know nothing’s ever gonna happen
but I just feel like, what if a big gust of wind comes and like just
EOS You’re like, attached. I know I am, but, no like when you took me
it was- it’s one of those things where you don’t want to do it but
then, when you’ve done it you’re like ‘yeah, let’s do it again, let’s
do it again, let’s do it EOS Yeah, I love those things. But when
you’re up there you’re like, ‘no no please don’t!’ EOS it’s a horrible
circle. It’s funny like, watching all the like the really girly girls
go around and like getting stuck. And you just think- I’m always like,
‘just hurry up!’ EOS I get really restless. I- in France we met this
erm- Mum and dad met this couple, and they had two kids of a similar
age to me and **anon** and erm we went with them to go ape. And it was
the one- the time when I got stuck on the skateboard. And this guy’s
dad had to get erm abseiled down by the people cos he was scared. He
couldn’t do it he was scared of heights. And his little ten year old
kid did it and he was- he was like hugging this tree, waiting for the
people to climb up and-. Aww. The man or the ten year old? R It was
kind of like, ‘see dad? I’m not a girl.’ EOS And he had to wait there
for like half an hour while they got all the equipment sorted up and
stuff, and get carried down. Aww I couldn’t do that, I’d rather just
finish than have the shame of s- of another full grown man carrying-.
E- everyone watching you, ‘ha ha!’ EOS Exactly cos you’re keeping
everyone else like up, cos you can’t like cross people’s paths when
you’re up there. Hmm, I know. I’d be so annoyed. I’d be like, ‘hurry
up!’ EOS Cos you’re impatient though, that’s the thing isn’t it? You
g- just go to think like- I don’t think- you just gotta- it’s weird,
the connotation of when you are- as a kid. How much it stays like
that. And that’s about it really, isn’t it?