count to five... one, two, three, four, five... and you... one, two,
three, four, five... okay, whenever you’re ready... cool, right, go
on... I don’t need a pen... what is your best or funniest memory from
when you were young?... erm, don’t even know, I can’t even remember
being young... no, neither can I... erm young do you remember our
Science lessons, they were well good... yeah, I love Science, mm...
fun, fun, fun... ah glad we don’t go school anymore though... I know,
I was talking to the other day about erm, and how she used to send
everyone to the unit... doesn’t it feel weird saying that?... ,...
isn’t it, I said - I saw and it felt well weird saying the other
day... Wetherspoons... no, it were- we weren’t in Wetherspoons, was
with and they were walking past the pub that I was in, can’t remember
which pub it was in **inc**... oh right, I think he works at
Wetherspoons, cos I went in there and he ID’d me, and I was like, ‘I
was in your year at school’... I was just like, ‘hiya ’... yeah...
yeah, it’s well weird seeing some-... and mm... yeah, I saw him
yesterday I was like, ‘hi’, and like, ‘you work here?’ and then told
me like,... , yeah... yeah... just shocking... good who was your
favourite teacher at school?... don’t think I had one... yeah, that
makes sense... **inc**... was pretty good though, he was funny... oh,
do you remember woodwork do you remember doing woodwork... problem
rubbish at woodwork... mine were always shocking... I remember I made
one for my Dad, you know that frame, with a flower in it... I didn’t
do that... for valentine’s day... we didn’t do that... I don’t know
why I made it my Dad... it’s a bit weird that, now that I think about
it, it’s a bit weird yeah, and now I don’t know where it is but, I
made a plane... I’ve still got some of my stuff... I made a plane...
I’ve got my plane, painted it pink... but I don’t know where it’s
gone... mines at m- my house... I think it’s like, left it in the old
house... oh, I’ll have to show you actually when you come round to my
house... what, your plane?... I still got it, and there’s a little box
thing that I made, it was proper shocking,... money box? Yeah... no it
was just a normal box and with a lid... oh, we made a money box... and
like, it’s not like even sort of thing, it’s a bit wonky... oh
right... and painted that was painted mostly pink as well, don’t know
why... **inc**... I remember making the bird feeders and th- you never
put the thing on it... mesh thing... and we never got it back, so, I
was a bit gutted at the time... I’m sure I did, cos I’m sure I put
nuts in it... you probably did, I- I was gutted that I didn’t get it
back... how’s ?... mm... yeah, he’s alright... aww... bless him...
he’s growing up, really, really quick... I can’t believe he’s one
one... is that your brother?... nephew... aww... he’s so cute... he
is... aww, he’s gorgeous... we’re walking round Trafford Centre, erm,
and my sister was trying to get some trainers or something, so me and
are walking round Trafford Centre and some of the looks we were
getting, like we were young Mum... oh no... which reminds me right, on
Saturday, I was at Granddad’s club and I was with this little kid,
babysitting sort of thing while person was working behind the bar, so
I sat there with it, and some of the looks I was getting as well
then... oh... like it was my kid, sat next to me, well funny... aww, I
used to like that... yeah... in a weird way... go like, ‘oh yeah, this
is mine’... yeah, when the babies are right there it sort of does make
you want a kid but then... eurgh... but then after that, there was
this little kid-... you like giving them back though... there was this
little kid, and bloody screaming I thought, ‘yep, that makes you not
want a kid’... yeah... ahh... aww... they are cute though... makes me
laugh ahh, we went to Gap, we went erm, on Saturday, went and took
round, aww I took my boyfriend round to see my family and then, you
know them lanterns we like, tried to light one of them lanterns... oh,
it was the most embarrassing thing... why?... and it just- you know
the bit, the square bit what you light, it just fell off, I was like,
‘this is not good’... oh no... like, patting it out on the grass, I
was like, oops... and then we lit- finally lit one, and it like flew
off, and then it was like stuck in a tree... we was like, ‘oh my God,
it’s gonna set the tree on fire’... ‘it’s gonna set the tree on fire’
but then, it like flew off and we was like- my Granddad was stood
there going, ‘I’m not happy about this, I’m not happy about this, it’s
gonna set next door on fire’... I was like, ‘Granddad, chill out,
it’ll blow away soon’... it was so funny oh it was funny... did they
like your boyfriend?... they was, ahh they didn’t really see him cos I
was like, ‘no, we’ll go and sit in this room’... ‘I don’t really wanna
sit with all them’, cos they wouldn’t stop asking questions... you
know what they’re like... was there?... **inc**... no, she said she
was gonna be cos she didn’t- w- she said I think she was alright going
round to or something... mm... then she was like, ‘I don’t really
fancy going out’ I was like, ‘ooh, go round to Gran’s, I’ll be there
at about eight’ she’s like, ‘right, okay, I’ll see you there then’,
and she just didn’t turn up, I was like, ‘alright’... so I was sat
there with with all the kids... was- it was great... babysitting...
proper getting terrored though ooh, they just bully me all the time...
**inc** yeah, they’re just like, ‘oh, he seems lovely’, I was like,
‘he is’... they always say that don’t they... everyone loves my
boyfriend... ahh... more than me probably... I know... been nearly
three years... wow, crazy... that’s a long time that isn’t it?...
yeah... gone quick though... mm... look at them dogs... pink dog...
ahh, that’s just mean... imagine walking that down the road?... would
be embarrassing you’d be like, ‘it’s not mine’... you can-... ‘I’m
just walking it’... can imagine the owner having that colour hair as
well couldn’t you?... yeah... dressed to match... oh it’s hard talking
when you don’t really kn- like... under pressure... it is under
pressure... I can’t think of anything to say... try one of them I
always think I don’t like **inc** they’re- they’re alright... did you
ever do anything after school?... erm, detention... yeah-... apart
from that not really... no, neither did I, I don’t think... I think-
no, I thi- actually I think I joined the rounders team, I was pretty
good at rounders, was quite- the only thing I was good at... really...
yeah, I didn’t like PE, I only liked it when we started going to the
gym... I know, and you didn’t really do anything, you just stood in
the gym going, ‘hm, champ’... me and you are just stood there like
this... on the- on the running machine, and you’re just having a
stroll... yeah... we were just there talking weren’t we... it was
good... go to the gym now though actually take it serious... I don’t,
I just don’t- I just don’t do exercise, it’s not really for me I don’t
think... I’m tired... did you ever do drama?... me? no... yeah... I’d
hate it... neither did I, right but everyone’s got like a lesson now,
full of drama, like just for drama... what, in like year seven and
everything?... yeah... cos was like, ‘oh yeah, we was in drama the
other day’ I was like, ‘you had drama?’ cos we didn’t have it...
**inc**... I think it’s cos it’s an arts and thingy college... yeah...
at erm, school, isn’t it... I was like, ‘oh, I would’ve liked
drama’... mm... what you liked it or didn’t?... no, I would of,
yeah... ah well... quite good at acting I think... hate these
adverts... you know, right, on the first day, I remember Mum walks me
and to the bus stop, then stood there until the bus came, it was so
embarrassing,... and then she like asked one of the year elevens, she
was like, ‘oh, will you take care of these and make sure they get to
school alright’ I was like, fucks sake, ‘Mum, this is so
embarassing’... that’s just reminded me of something that, on my first
day, I got my sister to do my tie, cos y- y- you didn’t have it the
right way, did you?... no, you had it the wrong way... you had that
little, small bit there... yeah... so now I did that, got to form, had
, do you remember ?... oh yeah,... she bloody made us blooming undo
it... I didn’t know how to do a bloody tie neither... oh no... so I
was there, undone this tie, and I’m thinking, ‘how do you do it?’...
just tie it in a knot... too- t- t- took me ages to figure out- get
used to doing it... we used to, right, you know when, like, year seven
you had them little tiny ones then year eleven you got them big huge
ones... yeah, but it was dead small like... yeah... mmhmm... yeah...
oh God don’t know what we was thinking... **inc** I know, just as we
come they got the blazers as well... we had blazers... no, that’s what
I mean, just as we got there, that’s when they got them... oh yeah...
oh yeah... cos my sister didn’t have to have one until we started
coming, our year, they just brought them in... I quite like my blazer,
I’m not gonna lie... it had places to put things... I looked pretty
good in it... it was horrible in summer though when they made you wear
your jumper and blazer... and your blazer... no, really?... yeah...
and you had to ask to take it off... ahh... it was horrible you
couldn’t just take it off, no... you’re really hot though... I know,
it was horrible, like on the- we were allowed to on the yard... it was
stupid yeah, but like, in classrooms though it’s always warmer isn’t
it... mm... mm... **inc**... but they’re not exactly gonna say no are
they well, they can’t really... so I don’t know why you had to ask...
yeah... I know ‘no, you can’t’... ‘keep it on’... you’re still gonna
take it off... I’m going to anyway, so... exactly... remember getting
the cream eggs actually at Easter... I remember when made me cry...
no... ah, that was horrible, cos like, I’d had a really bad morning,
you know like with my Mum and stuff... mm... and then I went in, and I
was wearing a leather jacket, and I was thinking, ‘ahh’, and I saw her
walking down the corridor towards me, I was like, ‘oh my God, she’s
gonna say something’... it’s cos you had to wear a black coat...
ooh... and I was stood there, and I was like, and she was like, going
at me in my face, and I was like, ‘uhh, shut up’, and then I just
cried, I was like, ‘ahh’... how embarra- I hate that... it was
horrible she went, ‘right, take- ta- take your jacket off’, I went,
‘it’s raining outside’, she went, ‘I don’t care, take your jacket
off’, I was like... dead stupid... ‘alright’... and them white
socks... white socks... you know when you’re wearing pants white
socks... cause like but, why would you wear white socks?... yeah...
they look ridiculous... but everyone used to just wear black socks
anyway, and in... yeah... year eleven we were allowed to weren’t
we?... but why would you have to wear white socks?... I don’t know,
she went... it’s alright with a skirt, because... yeah... it looks
alright, but... it looks alright, but, ahh, it’s like... pants, black,
white, black... oh no... that’s ridiculous... Michael Jackson style...
yeah... yeah used to get told off for it all the time black socks
looked nice though... mm... was really strict actually if you think
about it... I know... do you remember? cos they used to pick at
anything didn’t they... mm... ‘don’t do this, don’t do that’... do you
remember, cos you used to roll your skirt up didn’t you?... yeah,
obviously... si- so it’s not like, down below your knee... yeah...
yeah... and she stopped me and in the hall, and she was like, ‘right,
girls, have you got your skirts rolled up?’ I was like, ‘no, it just
won’t go past my hip’ like, she was like, ‘that’s clearly a lie’, I
was like, ‘okay’... and she was like, ‘right, lift your s- lift your
shirts up, I wanna see your skirts’... I was like... ‘see’... and then
we’d walk past and she’d make us do our ties, have our skirts long,
ah, it was so embarrassing,... mm... and you’d walk down the corridor
and you’d be like, roll it back up... remember when they used to make
you tuck your shirts in as well... mm oh God, wouldn’t mind it with
pants though, just looked silly with a skirt... yeah, well... mm...
normally had a jumper on over it so you couldn’t tell anyway... so
they didn’t normally notice, unless it was like, hanging out... tuck
it under your jumper... see they’re the things I don’t miss about
school... school uniform... mm... I’m not gonna lie, I quite liked
school uniform, cos it was green... mm... but that’s only cos it’s
like my favourite colour... I like wanted a green car but... the only
one I could get was blue... you can paint it, paint it... my Dad, the
other day came round and he’s got a green car, I was like,... ‘oh
right, you couldn’t find me a green car, but you could get yourself a
green car’... ‘thanks Dad’... yeah, I went, ‘can we swap’, he went,
‘Claudia , the insurance on this is gonna be sky high’, I was like,...
I know I need a car... ‘yeah’... ahh... sky high already... I need a
job first actually... mm... passed in December and no car still...
**inc** mm... it’s horrible... I don’t know what I’d do now if I
didn’t have a car... I know... that’s the thing... they’re horrible,
cos I don’t walk anywhere, ever... it’s like that with though, because
I always get lifts everywhere so th- that time when his car weren’t
working, it was horrible... ooh... just like not having your car for a
week... I don’t know what I’d do, I’d probably just sit in the house
all the time... ah, I can’t believe I dreamt that you said that you
were getting the bus down... today?... yeah... yeah, I had to check my
messages... in my dream I read a text saying, ‘I’m just leaving a bit
earlier cos I’m getting the bus down’ so I was think- I remember
thinking, ‘oh, what’s wrong with her car then?’... and I had to look
and I think it- it weren’t there... she got in the car and I went,...
‘Erin , do you even know me?’, the last time I got the bus was high
school... well that’s what I thought was weird... ahh... funny I can’t
decide whether I like him or not mm... hmm not watched- I need to
catch up on corrie actually went to Ibiza... ooh,... so I’ve missed
everything... how was it?... It was good actually... did you go with
friends?... my boyfriend... oh, very nice... hmm... Claudia’s going
away in October aren’t you?... with my Mum... and my Gran and my
Granddad... oh no... I know, Mum was like-... so you’re not going
clubbing?... my Mum- Mum was like, ‘are you ready to hit the town with
me’ I was like... ‘no’... then me Aunty yesterday she was like, ‘what
if your Mum pulled’, I was like,... no... ‘that’s what I want’... ‘no,
no’... so, I went, ‘I’m not even going out with her’... ‘what if she
pulled?’... ah, that’s horrible that... couldn’t even imagine it... I
don’t want to... I know... ahh she’s dead excited though don’t know
why, she was like, ‘ahh, it’s gonna be a holiday with just us’, I was
like, ‘yeah’... it will be nice... yeah, it should be alright,
wouldn’t really do anything... mm... sit by the pool, relax... better
than being over here anyway... in the rain... yeah... God, it’s
horrible... will be in October anyway... mm... yeah... Mum and Dad go
away the same time as she goes away... ahh, you’re gonna be lonely...
I know ahh,... well you’ll just have to drink on your own again...
can’t wait for Christmas, can’t wait for Chris- it’s nearly
Christmas... it’s like four months away... it is actually, cos it is
the eighth month isn’t it, I didn’t know it was that close actually...
my cousin told me, he went, what did he say? He said there’s something
like hundred and thirty three days or something, I was like...
what?... it’s a bit- bit precise there... bit extreme... not been
counting down or anything... oh God... I’m not really that excited for
Christmas anymore... why?... I don’t know... I’m still like a little
kid at Christmas, wake up dead early I; ahh... like, last year was a
bit of a let down... I don’t even know what I got, what did you
get?... dunno... I don’t know why I even know what I get anymore...
oh, I don’t know either... no idea... ooh, I wanna know what I got
now, I can’t think... for Christmas?... what did you get for
Christmas... erm, a Nintendo DS actually... hm... I know, I’ve- and
I’ve used it like twice... yeah... **inc**... I hate that, I was like,
‘, do you wanna buy this off me’... he was like, ‘no, I’ve only g-
I’ve got my own’, I was like, ‘oh’... gutted... alright, ebay it is...
turn the light on, it’s getting dark... yeah... I was talking to last
night, I was like, ‘got any gossip about from school?’ it- she was
like, ‘not really’, I was like, ‘how can you not have gossip about
someone’... I wonder what actually like in school... I know... I
remember you telling me that he got kicked out of that other school...
got kicked out of didn’t he... did he?... yep... why?... erm, long
story,... basically he set a bin on fire and then... and then
apparently he tried to put it out with deodorant, I was like,...
what... ‘what an idiot’... you’re not- right- he’s not stupid is
he?... no... clearly know that it’s gonna make the fire worse... what
was it one of the inside ones?... I think so, and that’s even worse,
cos like could’ve set the whole classroom on fire... I was like,
‘what- what are you even thinking when you do this stuff?’ he was
like, ‘I don’t know, I just do it’, I was like, ‘alright’... he’s
meant to be the brainy one as well... I know... oh no... God... yeah
he- but he keeps saying, ‘other people were with me’, and I was like,
‘well, why didn’t you say that?’ he went, ‘cos I didn’t wanna tell-
tell off anyone’, I was like, ‘probably wouldn’t have got kicked out
then if it was other people’... a group effort, yeah... yeah... that’s
annoying... mm but I don’t- I don’t think he’s bothered really cos
he’s got like loads of friends now, cos they are, cos obviously, the
people from live in... yeah... so, now he goes to the one he’s got all
his mates in I; mm... so, it’s pretty good and he’s always out now, so
like... yeah... got the house to myself in the day,... when he’s off,
and it’s like-... I love having the house to myself... I know boring
though... I’m glad my sister’s moved out actually... she moved out at
Christmas... oh... Mum keeps telling me to move out, she’s like, ‘so
when are you gonna get a full time job’... ‘when are you moving out?’,
‘Mum, I don’t know’, ‘you need to think about it don’t you’, I was
like... ‘stop pushing me’... ‘why?’... oh God do you remember him, on
that magic show? What was it called?... yeah tricky TV- tricky TV,...
yeah, yeah... yeah, it’s sad that I know that... it is a little bit
sad, a little bit sad... Tricky T-... do you remember Art Attack? That
was good... oh, yeah which one was that one that died? Was he out of
Art Attack? Or Smart?... Smart... Was it Smart? Oh... I used to love
watching all them programmes... mmhmm... what did you do in your
summer holidays like, in school?... erm, like now?... no, in school...
oh, in school... yeah... I dunno, bit far away to remember... you know
where is, you know she’s got that big field outside her house...
yeah... we used to sit on there in the summer, like, just sit there...
I can’t even remember what we used to do, we used to just sit there,
and you know when you used to play music on your phone... used to go
out with was and and all that go out with us... yeah... yeah... who
else, someone else did as well can’t remember... yeah... ah, I
remember the first Friday that I got drunk on the park... ooh... it
wasn’t very nice actually, it was quite scary... ahh... cause like
everyone else was out wasn’t they, and it’s like, mm, okay, so we just
went and sat on my friends grass outside her house... and then my
friend, you know... mm... I think that’s what he’s called... , yeah...
yeah he like jumped on the cars and like ran across them... we was
like, ‘oh my God you can’t do that’... oh my God,... I was like, I
didn’t know what to do, I was like, ‘ probably should get down’ but
yeah, and then I think it- I think it was who got beat up that
night... ah no... I know... I think I remember him coming into school
actually... yeah... saying that he was beat up... yeah... or summet on
them lines... and him and and mm, they got together, but like, didn’t
really get together... **inc**... I know it was weird... they like
kissed and everything and then, just nothing, I was like, mm... God, I
remember that... it was alright, cos they both liked each other, you
could proper tell but then nothing... remember when and were together
actually... and they went into a bush t- just to kiss... bloody hell
you look back now and you’re like, what the hell... I know, mm, in a
bush... I thought you was gonna say summet else then... no I;... ooh,
okay... ah, no... yeah... at least United won yesterday anyway I
weren’t paying much attention to the match... I don’t know... I was
just drinking... did you go to the pub to watch it?... yeah, drinking
from twelve ‘til like nine... oh no, headache today... I got very
drunk, no, I don’t get hangovers to be honest but... nice... she’s
lucky all the time... I’ve not stopped drinking f- since I’ve back-
been back off holiday, I come back on f- was it... Friday... Friday
morning so, went for ten days and I’ve not stopped drinking... this is
me first day that I’m not having a drink... it’s cos you’ve got none
left... I know-... b- I have, I have, I’ve not drank any at- th- that
was all spent at the pub... jeez... ah, I’ve still got that vodka at
home, got a litre bottle of vodka, ten ninety five euro... wow... it’s
good that isn’t it... Smirn Off... I think it’s like eighteen in
Tesco... was that duty free?... yeah... **inc**... so I- I thought,
‘right, I’ll get that’... yeah... it’s good... went round on Friday, I
thought, ‘I’ll have a bit,... ‘go on, I’ll share’... did, didn’t we
went- went to Trafford Centre, then went to Asda, had to carry all the
bags, through- back to the Trafford Centre didn’t we... she went,
‘it’s alright, we’ll walk to Asda from Selfridges’, right, okay... and
then when we **inc**-... and then we got there, it was like, ‘we’re
gonna have to carry all these bags through the Trafford Centre back to
the car’... oh no... I forgot that we weren’t at- parked at Asda as
well until like we just got hold of the bags, I thought, ‘oh, we’ve
gotta walk through Trafford-’... cause I was like walking to the car,
and she went, ‘Claudia where you going? We’re going Selfridges’, I was
like, ‘what do you mean, I’m gonna get my car, to drive to Asda’, she
went, ‘no, we’ll walk, we’ll walk’... God... we both didn’t know where
we were going, I was gonna walk out a blooming different exit, weren’t
I... to try and get to Asda... ahh... and it’s through Selfridges...
yeah, it’s further than you think as well, isn’t it... yeah and then I
think-... and we had to find which way it was, cos it- we were parked,
was it at John Lewis?... yeah... I know we always get mixed up
between... oh no... like Debenhams and John Lewis... you can see us
walking all the way to Debenhams and thinking... it’s at the other
end... it’s the other end... Peter Andre makes me laugh... yeah... ah,
I wish he was my Dad... I want Celebrity Juice to come back on
actually... funny **inc**... is that not back on next month, I’m sure
it’s September it comes back on... I don’t know... makes me laugh
though Inbetweeners is out on the seventeenth, the movie... I know...
**inc**... I’m so excited... I can’t wait to watch that... the
trailers look good don’t they... yeah, have you seen the bit where
Neil’s dancing in that club?... no... doing the robot?... oh my God,
it’s so funny... well the only bloody trailer I’ve seen, which was a
while ago now, cos I remember looking on youtube was where they’re
just bloody walking through a town, weren’t the greatest trailer... oh
yeah, I’ve seen that... just watching them walk, I was thinking, ‘this
is a great time to advertise a film’ you know, if someone’s not seen
it... ah, I’ve seen loads of different ones, like-... oh, I’m gonna
have to search it now... where he squirts aftershave down his pants
and then screams, yeah... I can imagine that’d hurt... yeah, we went
to Thorpe Park on Friday and it just reminded me of that... where he’s
got- he’s carrying the door around with him... yeah... ah, you should
paint your door a different colour... yeah, you should... no... cause
there’s just one door isn’t there that’s different... ahh, I don’t
understand why he carries it round with him... why doesn’t he just
like, leave it on the car, it’s not gonna make a difference whether
he’s still got it or not... and no-one’s really gonna steal a door...
you never know... someone’d steal the car, cos it’s not got a door...
mm, true... can’t believe I’ve come back to Manchester and it’s
horrible, was nice while I was away... I know... well, come back and
it’s horrible again... I even got a suntan, I was like, ahh,... yes...
come on suntan... just, and then I thought, I’m gonna have to top it
up with fake tan... yeah... oh, do you remember them... when you used
to go to like Wacky Warehouse or something, and big ball pools and
stuff... ball pits, ahh... you went down the slide and went straight
into... I’d always be scared of going in there you know, cos kids are
in there, and they... yeah... like could poo and... stuff... I never
thought about that... I thought you were gonna say kids hiding... no,
I’m not even bothered about, ooh, imagine like eurgh, an old man...
what... in the ball pit... Claudia y-... no, have you seen, ah, do you
watch the Big Bang Theory? Oh, it’s so funny that, have you seen the
one where Sheldon goes in the ball pit,... yeah... oh it’s so funny,
and he’s like going down, and then Leonard’s trying to catch him and
he pops up and he goes, ‘the zinger’... so funny, oh, I love Sheldon
makes me laugh... don’t even know what they’re doing in there...
having fun in a ball pit... proper fancy McDonalds... mm... mm... you
had it the other day didn’t you actually? Oh no, you didn’t... no, I
had Chin-... you had that Chinese didn’t you, I forgot... oh my God,
went Trafford Centre, had a Chinese, and it was so spicy... was it?...
my mouth was on fire... oh it re- I was sat there with every mouthful
just going... was really nice though... you still ate it... I actually
ate all of it you know... **inc**... got to really... is it
expensive?... it was five ninety-nine... six pound and-... it weren’t
too bad... yeah... did you eat all them peanuts you got?... no, I took
them back right, I don’t know why, I was craving peanuts... it’s a
weird thing, and I ate about four, and then I thought, I don’t even
want them anymore... so then I took them round to my Gran’s
seventieth, and I was like, ‘I’ve got some peanuts here’, she was
like, ‘ooh, put some in bowls’, I was like, ‘alright’ **inc**... ah
knew I should’ve got the small bag... yeah... it was a huge bag, it
was like this big... you’re like, there’s not- there’s-... there’s not
enough in this one... it was huge though that bag... I know... you
know they don’t do chocolate erm,... peanuts?... peanuts in Asda...
they do or don’t... don’t... what? Strange... I know, I w- that’s what
I was looking for, I was like, cos I wanted some chocolate ones, you
know, cos they’re nice... yeah... and didn’t have any... there was
none... I was like, ‘oh’, gutted... little bit erm... I was talking to
about the toilets in school... oh... do you remember when everyone
used to go in and smoke in them... yep, th- the ones were worse near-
round that other side... mm... past the... where they always played
football, can’t think of where it was... it’s like, do you remember
used to bring- used to bring a toilet roll into school?... I don’t
remember this... **inc** cos he used to always have a poo... in
school, I was like, ‘ooh, that’s nasty’... was it had that rumour...
oh, yeah... don’t know if it is true... some lad poo- did he poo
himself?... yeah... in school... used his boxers as well to wipe...
ah, that’s disgusting... apparently it was all over the toilet seat
and everything... ah... ah that- ah that’d be so embarrassing... ew do
you remember... ah, the Art teacher?... yeah... took everyone’s
chocolate and food and... yeah... and then didn’t give it them back
**inc**... cause he was- was he diabetic or something?... yeah... and
he used to say that he needed like, chocolate so when like... someone
came in with a bar of chocolate, he’d be like, ‘you’re not allowed to
eat that in here’ so he’d take it off them... and eat it himself...
and then eat it himself, and it’s like, ‘didn’t pay for that or
anything’... didn’t give him money, didn’t give him money or anything,
just took it off him... that’s bad... I know God I seen him the other
day actually... did you?... yeah where did I see him? think it was
Trafford Centre didn’t know who he was... yeah... I used to love
tomato ketchup actually... did you ?... don’t worry, it was the
advert... anyone listening to this is gonna think I’m really random...
**inc**... don’t like it no more though... why?... I dunno, I think
it- I might- must’ve had it too much when I was younger... and gone
off it... I am really fussy... oh, no... really fussy... like what?...
what do you not like?... in high school she used to have jam butties
every single day... didn’t you?... I just don’t like anything on my
sandwich, do I?... no... and now I just have bread and butter cos
there’s too much sugar in jam... well that’s when I go to- when I went
college and stuff... funny... yeah... ahh, them paninis in college,
they were nice should’ve tried one, they were nice... yeah... mm...
don’t think I would’ve liked them... ham and cheese panini... mm...
mm, could- oh, I could eat one of them now... ahh, why don’t you go
college and get one... not that it’s gonna be open but still... no...
get one when we go and get r- our results next Thursday... oh, no...
oh God, yeah... it’s so close... how do you feel?... erm,... I haven’t
got a clue... I don’t think I’ve failed any... that’s good... but I
don’t think I dunno don’t think I’ve done really badly just not
great... mm... it’s hard though, isn’t it... aye... very hard... are
you nervous?... yeah I don’t wanna go in... I am... and see all my
teachers though... cause they’ll be like, ‘oh what did you get, what
did you get’ and I’m like, ‘an E’... they’ll just be like, ‘oh’...
it’s annoy- it’s annoying though when people get good grades and
they’re like, ‘this is really shocking’... I know... you know when
like, say they get a B or an A or like, C or summet, and they’re like,
‘oh, this is rubbish this’, and it’s like, it’s not rubbish... it’s
be- no, it’s not... mm it’s better than E, let’s put it that way...
but if you wanna go Uni and stuff it is important, isn’t it?... mm...
aye, I need two B’s and a C to get in Uni... mm... hopefully I will...
mm... **inc**... well, I can’t wait for everyone’s fresher’s week...
yeah... just gonna, go around... I know I can’t, but I don’t if it’s
before the like, actually Uni starts, I want my money... but they’re
not gonna give me my money, are they?... don’t know actually... what’s
that for, your loan?... yeah... it comes in just before freshers...
does it?... yeah, cos they count freshers as the start of term...
right... so you’ll have it, so... that’s good... cause I need it...
yeah... otherwise I won’t be going out much in the beginning... no,
you’ll have fun, freshers is good... mm I think I’m coming down to
Leeds... ahh... see... yeah... with... oh no... mm, I know, I went out
with him, I think it was not last Friday, the Friday before, and I
lost my phone... oh no... I know the only time I go out with my
cousins, and I loose my phone... have you got it back?... no I know,
in as well... ah... and I bet someone who took it, cos I think someone
took it,... yeah... cause like, I rang it and it was off, and I was
like,... mm... ‘someone’s took it’ ah, was so upset... is it your
Blackberry?... yeah... oh no... I was so upset... now she’s got a
Samsung, her old phone... ahh... where did you go with them?... erm,
just round , like... bars?... yeah and then I think, it was a- cos we
went to a pizza place, you know, like you do... mm... after you’ve
been out you get a bit peckish... you do anyway... so- so I must’ve
like put my phone down... ooh... and got really excited about this
pizza... and then just forgot that my phone was there, but I went back
the day after and they was like, ‘oh no, we’ve not seen it, we’ve not
seen it’, I was like, ‘probably took it haven’t you’... mm... yeah,
they probably did... so, and I went into all the pubs and everything,
but, no... that’s annoying... mm so now I’ve gotta save up for another
one... ahh... yay, fun times... and I’m skint... why are they all
pound signs on this map?... cause you can win it... oh... I don’t
know... wish I could win... money... sh-... when I win the lottery,
just don’t put it on though... I know, you should really put it on if
you wanna win it... I know... it sort of helps... that help... yeah,
yeah, little bit... I hope to win it, just don’t put it on... hmm...
Mum puts it on every week and I’d- I’d like to think that if she won,
she’d give me a little bit... I’m sure she would... mm... yeah, my M-
my Mum and Dad put it on every week... I don’t know where they get
that spare pound from... I know... I never have a spare pound, it’s
always in my car ah... you hardly ready- for anything though on it, do
they?... no, she wins like a fiver or something... every now and again
they’ll win a tenner or something... fun times... makes me laugh...
mm... made me laugh on holiday, you know like the fruit machines and
stuff that you get over here... yeah... decided to go on a foreign
one, didn’t understand it... but yeah, he decided to keep putting more
and more money in it... oh no... someone who was in my Psychology last
year, he’s got like a gambling problem... he’s like, how old is he? I
think he’s like twenty, and he’s got a gambling problem, I was like
how can you even get one at twenty... **inc**... cos he went, ‘I just
go to the casinos every weekend’, and I’m like, ‘why? W-Where do you
even get money from to do that?’... goes quite a lot to the casino...
yeah... wish I had money to go to a casino but no... yeah wish I had a
job... having a car rinses your money... mm... like anything I have
like one night out a month... ahh... I know, it’s horrible but it’s so
expensive insurance, it’s ridiculous... always is these days... got
quoted nine thousand pound... to go on my car, and I was like,... it’s
not exactly a big car... nine thousand... nine thousand, I was like...
who would pay that?... I don’t know... why so much?... I don’t know, I
think it’s cos he’s a boy, but it’s meant to have gone the same isn’t
it... mm... so, it should really be the same, cos we’re both the same
age... nine grand... I don’t know, it’s the same car... how much is
yours?... erm, just under three... you wouldn’t pay nine grand
though... it’s not exactly... no... no, I know, I was like ‘are you
sure you did it right?’, and he was like, ‘yeah’ ‘hm, alright’ nine
grand ah talking to about my scars, cos I’ve got loads all over my
knees... why?... cos I was just clumsy... I’m just clumsy all the
time, never broke anything... but I’ve got cuts and, ah, I’ve got
about four bruises now, and I’ve no idea where they’ve come from... oh
I always get bruises... it’s like, all over me I m- I must like fall
over a lot... but I just don’t remember... yeah... are they from
nights out?... probably, probably... I’ve still got that bite on my
leg it’s still like, you run over my leg and it’s like a proper bad
bump, it’s horri-... what, from insects?... yeah... mm... horrible,
hate them... ahh... told I told about , you know ,... well, everyone
knows , and he was like,... ‘really’, I was like, ‘yeah, really’...
have you seen her? Recently... yeah, she’s got a- she came to my
Gran’s thing on Saturday and she had purple hair... purple playsuit...
purple tights, and I was like... nice... ‘do you think she’s like
purple at the moment?’... but then she had pink crocs on, I was
like,... oh no... what are you doing with your life?... **inc** it’s
embarrassing... mm... and then you know, we all had like, stickers on,
name tags... nice... just in case people didn’t know who we are...
Claudia’s is in the car... as it’s asked the whole family... ‘,
granddaughter’... it was like, ‘this is ridiculous’, and erm, came...
oh no... ‘, partner’, I was like, ‘ooh, cringe’... she looks like a
man doesn’t she... does she?... ahh, disgusting, right she had all her
hair, cos she’s grown her hair, she had it all scraped back in a
pony... oh, has she grown it?... and she had a suit on, not a sui- not
a suit, like a shirt and jeans, and I was like she’s proper- if you
didn’t know that she was a girl, she’s- she’s a man... yeah... she
looks like a man... oh no... it’s like, ‘oh my God’, it’s
embarrassing... well, she’s starting to grow her hair... ah, it’s
embarrassing... ahh... I was telling him, and he was like, ‘oh right’
he went, ‘my cousins- my sisters a lesbian’ I was like, ‘oh, right’
‘thanks’... go round to his house, and they like they they’ll sit and
talk about her, she’s not- she doesn’t live there... oh... and they’ll
sit and talk about her and it- they’ll be dead horrible about her, and
it’s like ‘that’s a bit harsh’... so, I don’t know what to say but
they swear, all the time his family... do they?... and I’m sat there,
cos, we don’t swear, well, do sometimes but like, not in front of like
your Mum... yeah... and I was like, sat there and they just, ah, every
other word, and I was like, ‘oh my God, I don’t know what to do’...
I’m just sat there like... ‘alright’ cos it’s dead weird they’re dead
nice though... that’s good... at least you get on with them... mm...
do you get on with your boyfriend’s parents?... yeah aye, I get on
with all his family... oh, that’s good... ah, so tired... want my
bed... my mouth’s dead dry now from talking... have you got water?...
yeah, I’ve still got some... good... ah, right... my mouth was worse
cos I was drinking yesterday... I think the weather is making- it’s
making my lips dead dry... mm... and then they’re dead sore... my
throat was dead sore cos it was dry the other day... what are local
people like?... not very friendly, not really... ah, that reminds me,
in the pub yesterday I was just sat at this table, and his Dad were
stood at the bar there-... at ?... no... oh... this was just at...
**inc**... this was like at twelve o’clock and... this lad called...
and this old man there, so I was- I was just sat there, this per- lad
comes in all cuts down his arm, self harmer... oh no... blood shot
eyes, looked like he was on God knows what, come in, came up to me and
went, ‘have you got any- any money? Spare pound or something for a
drink? I’m shaking, I been out all night, soaking wet through, I need
a drink’, I was like, ‘no’... mm... I went, ‘no’, and th- then they
went over to and his Dad an- and asked them, they were like, ‘no’,
then he went, ‘right, just gonna go toilet to get a drink of water’
and apparently-... ew, from the toilet,... -... you can get free water
from the bar... went into the toilet, and all the basins were dry, so
I bet he was trying to like get money out of the machine thing, you
know, like cos they have them machines in the toilets, trying to see
if there was money in them... oh, there’s always this- I think-... I
think he’s like homeless and he wears like, joggers and then a coat,
and that’s it,... ah... and it’s like ‘mmm’, it’s a bit digusting...
and he’ll sit with a pint, the whole night, the same pint the whole
night... it’s like, I don’t even know how it lasts that long...
yeah... it wouldn’t with me anyway... I drink like a fish... okayYeah.... One two three.... That’s fine.... W-... One two three. Erm
yeah th- that’s fine.... Do you want my name?... Oh no that’s fine.
Erm you can start now-... Oh- right.... Whenever you’re ready. Thank
you.... Go on then. You start then dear.... Well do you r- .... What’s
her f-... Can you switch off if you don’t think it’s right? We were
both born and brought up in in Salford. Is that the-... Yeah that’s
fine.... Yep.... Erm you lived across- we-... I lived across the f-
there was a football pitch. I lived at one end and you-... And I- I
lived with my grandma and mum and dad. Erm and she had what they
called then a corner shop-... Oh.... which s- it sold everything.
Bread and milk and erm we lived with her because she’d just lost her
husband and bought this shop and erm my dad was a painter and
decorator and had a lot of out of work.... And he used to get three-
he-... He- he worked for himself. He had his own business.... He
didn’t then.... Oh no he didn’t **inc**... And he used to get three
pounds a week-... Wow.... to keep us all and he used to give it my
grandma. And in return he used to get a couple of packets of
cigarettes.... So erm you lived across.... I lived across yes- across
the pitch.... Erm and during the war, just after the war she used to
put cigarettes under the counter for you didn’t she?... **inc** I- I
didn’t smoke then but I erm- I worked as a erm motor mechanic and the
lads there, there was quite a lot of them smoked and you couldn’t get
cigarettes because they were under the counter.... Oh.... ‘Would you
go and ask your girlfriend’s grandma’ .... Erm would she let us have
some cigarettes. Which she used to like-... Mm, mm... let us have a
few packets now and again.... But erm I didn’t have any brothers and
sisters.... But there were lots and lots of children.... Mm.... And
erm we used to play outside on the erm pavement. There were no
gardens. It was just erm streets in . And erm we used to chalk the
flags and play hop-scotch and erm play ball against the wall. And erm
hide and seek in peoples’ doors and I have been known to knock on
doors and run away.... And I got a good smack off my mother for doing
that because she caught me. And erm we used to erm- we never went far
away from where we lived and everywhere was very safe. There was
no-... Mm.... no erm hint of any people-... Danger.... doing wrong
things to children.... Not like there is today.... There was nothing
like that.... Mm.... No.... Where I lived anyway. Erm as I say my
grandma had a shop.... Erm I can remember bread being four pence and
milk being four pence at the same time. And erm she used to have this
machine where she cut all the bacon up by hand with a machine that you
turned a handle. And she had loads of sweets in one window and I was
not allowed to touch them-... unless I asked her could I have some.
Now I was allowed but if I was caught taking any I got another smack
off me mother across my legs.... She was a very strict- yeah. B: And
it never ever did me any harm. Erm and I did have to help out in the
house because we used to stone the steps. We used to stone the step of
the shop and stone the window ledges of the house-... Mm **inc**....
all the way round. And stone the back steps-... The back yard yeah....
with a- a brown stone or a cream stone. And while I was doing it I was
told to do next door so I had to do those as well.... And erm what
about you? What did you do?... What did I do?... When you were young.
What did you play?... Well I used to pla- play a lot of football....
Yeah.... I used to love football and of course facing the house was
this big football pitch .... Which was horrible surface.... Which
was-... Oh was it?... int- in- incidentally- it wasn’t-... It was like
cinders.... I was a cinder pitch really. When you fell down it- it
used to take part of your knee cap off.... Ouch.... So constant-
constantly you had black marks on your knees... where the cinders had
gone in.... Mm.... And erm but I used to love playing football and erm
I used to also like repairing bicycles.... But what- also what did you
used to do? You used to go on the hills at which was near prison....
Oh no.... And what did you used to do there? You used to go swimming
in the-... Swimming in these-... horrible dirty filthy water....
Yeah.... When you think about it yes.... There was they were like erm
they were like big clay pits and they’d filled with water and we used
to go swimming in there. I’d- Many a time I’d cut my foot, my legs
because there was broken bottle-... Oh no.... There was old prams in
there.... Terrible when you think of it.... When I think about it
now.... I mean I wasn’t allowed.... Yeah.... I didn’t know this went
on until we started to go out as erm w- when I was about fifteen or
sixteen. Keith used to mend my bike and I used to go for chips for all
the erm-... All the- all the-... boys and girls that were all round on
the corner there.... But erm **inc**... But m- us best or funniest
memory was during the war and erm we used to go- w- we had a back yard
and it had a little garden ine itwith a beautiful tree in it. The
erm-... Oh erm th- what’s- the elderber-... elderflower tree....
Elderflower.... So we did have a bit of a- a little bit of garden but
this brick- they came and built these brick shelters. I can’t remember
w- w- how- the shelter being built.... But my dad made it very nice
inside with beds and we had erm some kind of a light in there and erm
my grandma would never ever come down when the air raids went....
Yeah.... And it was very frightening-... Mm.... and it must’ve been
very frightening for them but I was only nine, ten.... Mm.... And it-
to me it was a big adventure.... And one night my dad was a- an ARP
warden like you see on erm Dad’s Army.... And erm one night they
dropped all these incendiary bombs on this pitch at the back of our
house.... **inc** and they hit erm-... And erm-... the prison.... my
dad-... prison that night.... Oh.... My dad dragged the dustbin out
which in those days they were metal dustbins.... Mm.... He dragged it
outside and he said ‘come on Brenda and help me fill it with water
because w- we’re going to have to put all these fires out’. And I was
running backwards and forwards and passing him all this water. And erm
we put the light on.... And I said to him ‘daddy this water’s not
going- there’s no water in it’. And unfortunately in the- so it- to me
it’s very funny this.... We were dashing backwards and forwards with
this buckets of water and there was a big hole in the dustbin.... So
as fast as we were p-... ,... Putting the water in it was running
out.... putting the water in... Oh no... Yeah... So that to me is a- a
long- it’s- I mean it’s a long time ago and I remember that and it was
very funny.... And erm when these bombs these incendiary bombs dropped
they dropped one outside a lamp post. You used to have big lamp posts
in those days. I don’t know what- what were those lamp posts erm-...
They used to be gas.... Gas.... Gas lit.... Mm.... And erm m-... Well
they were, they were ga-... I’ve never seen my grandma come down the
stairs as quick.... She’d never ever got up. She used to stay in bed.
But she was down those stairs.... And one night me mother came out and
she’d got the budgie on her head.... Oh no .... So she had to t- and I
said m- I used to call her mammy ‘mammy’. The- I for- forget what the
bird was called.... ‘So and so’s on your head’. Sh- She turned quickly
back and went you know went back in the house so that was another
funny memory.... And erm- about parents-... Erm what I used to do was
erm when I think about it now I would never let my sons do that. But
erm I used to erm when the air raids were on-... Mm.... I used to go
out with a- a bucket and a pair of coal tongs and I’d be picking
shrapnel up.... Oh... You’d- you’d- you’d be s- listening ye- and
you’d hear it going ‘shhhhh’ down the road. And you could see it was
white hot. When I think that really that my parents let me go out-...
Mm.... picking the sh- the shrapnel-... Mm.... the pieces of shrapnel
up. I had buckets and buckets of it.... did you?... And we used to
swap it with one another you know. It- it- if it had got the German
erm- erm-... emblem on you used to erm swap it for something else....
Mm.... Incendiary bombs had the German mark on.... Mmhmm.... And
erm-... But as I say we were children. It was an adventure to us....
Yeah.... Erm I- I th- I thought it was great-... But can you imagine
if it happened now. I’d be absolutely-... Yeah.... Mm.... frightened
to death.... When you know what’s going on.... You would. It- it would
be a very frightening experience cos my mother was a very nervous
lady.... Yeah.... And she must’ve been absolutely frightened to
death.... Terrified yeah. But on this football pitch facing they dug
it all up and put the biggest air raid shelter you’ve ever seen on the
ground.... Really?... Yeah. And we used to go in there. It- it was
terrible. It was t-... Well I never went in.... Oh the- the smell....
My mother wouldn’t go in there so-... But we- we had a-... Mm.... one
built in the back erm- the back yard.... Yeah they built these
brick-... Brick solid-... They were very strong brick. I meant there
were different types of shelters.... Mm.... My auntie who lived in
Urmston she had one and it was called a Morrison and it was like a big
cage.... A- anderson ones. They-... Mm.... Just like a big cage. A
Morrison.... Oh that was the Morrison yes.... And erm she used to have
a lovely- a lovely embroidered cloth on it-... and flowers. And if the
sirens went she used to go under there with her husband. They had no
children. Erm and then there were the Anderson ones with people in the
garden. You used to go down into those.... Mm.... But erm m- there was
w- called a blitz. Erm it was a christmas blitz wasn’t it?... Yes that
was the biggest .... Nineteen forty- forty one. And my grandparents
lived in which is in- still in Salford. And when I think of it now
they wouldn’t have allowed a child but I was ten and my mother put me
on the bus where we lived-... mm.... to go and see- ‘go and see if
your grandma’s alright.’ And I went on my own you know th-... Mm....
it would be unheard of now wouldn’t it?... Yeah.... And erm when I got
there the street had been bombed-... It’d gone.... and all the houses
the curtains the windows were all blown out.... Oh.... And I stood at
the top of this street and I cried.... Mm.... And this man came to me
and he said ‘what’s the matter?’ and I said ‘I’ve come to see my
grandma and look at the house’. He said ‘don’t worry I’ll take you’.
They’ve taken them to th- what they called a rest centre and it was in
a church.... Church yeah.... And he took me there. Now in this day and
age I didn’t know the man.... Mm.... Well you know y-... when you
think. Erm there was no-... I think-... there was none of that
fear.... I think you were safer then than you are today.... Oh
yeah.... It’s-... I do really think so.... Y- you never heard of
people being murdered and stabbed and-... No no.... and like I say you
used- you used- you used to t- travel quite a way on your own didn’t
you?... Yes you did.... **inc** young. Going to school.... Oh yes. I
went to school. Was- **inc** yeah-... Which is quite a way from-... I
went to- I went to School. Before that I went to School and my mother
used to take me and bring me home four times a day.... Really?... She
used to take me in the morning. Come home. Come for me at lunchtime.
We used to go through a- and a park called Park which is still there.
Take me back. Then come for me back again in the afternoon.... And
then I went to School... and I used to walk there e- but if me mother
could afford it I used to go on the bus.... Mm.... And it was a g- a
long way from where I lived.... It was a long way yes.... So erm that
school isn’t there anymore School. It was called Bella Vista because
it was the consul at one time.... Yeah.... And it was a beautiful
house. It was really lovely. So erm and what do you remember from your
first day at school? I cried and cried-... and the Headmistress was
called and she said to my mother ‘leave her, she’ll be alright’ and I
sat at side on a chair for three weeks.... And she said to me mother
‘she’ll get fed up before I will’.... Mm.... So that was- I hated it
and I was very upset and eventually - I got very friendly with her and
she eventually erm persuaded me to go into the classroom .... No I
never got into trouble at school. I was quite a good child I think....
We- talking about holidays we erm w- never had any holidays. Th- th-
the erm-... oh switch it off.... That alright? Is that ok?... Yeah
that’s fine. Don’t worry.... Hello Telephone conversation omitted...
No thank you... They’ve got ten eight hundred and thirty four pound
vouchers to give out. So I don’t-... Sounds a bit odd.... oh, they’re
always sending me-... No I- I never had- I never went on holiday. The
only holiday I’ve ever had was-... You had a lot of brothers and
sisters.... I- I did.... I was an only child.... Yes I had erm four
brothers and one sister. And erm- but we never had holidays. Only days
out to Blackpool.... Mm.... But my- one of my brothers- I had four
half b- brothers. Step brothers. And erm he- he was a mechanic and erm
he- he- he used to do quite well and he said ‘if you save your spends
up’ which was about in today’s money about five p a week-... erm ‘you
can come away with me’ and he had a m- a car which in the- those days
was fantastic you know.... Mm.... If somebody had a motorcar-... Well
if you had a friend that was a car-... Yeah.... that had a car it was
absolutely marvellous. K: Well he had a car and erm and erm he- he
said ‘save your- save your spends up and I’ll take you erm away for a
week’. And he did and we w- went to Wales and when I was sat at- I can
see myself now sat in that car. And I- I was hoping all my friends
could see me -... yeah.... going away on holiday. And that was about
the best holiday I ever had then-... Mm.... as- as child cos I never
went away again after that. Like I say we used to go, **inc**... now
and again they’d take us to Blackpool on the train.... Mm.... For a
day. But erm that was it.... Well I went to Blackpool once a year for
a week. And what you did it was a- I forget what they called it. It
wasn’t self-catering but you bought the food and the person that you
were staying with erm she cooked it for you.... Th- th- they- c-
cooked it for you yeah.... Oh ok.... I don’t know what they called it
but th- they did a lot of that in those days and that street it’s or .
It’s still there in Blackpool and we went once a week- erm once a year
for a week. **inc** can I go- move onto that one?... Yeah,
whatever.... Yeah. Oh I did get hurt while- when I was playing as a
child. Like Keith said erm I fell on this what we called a rec. We
called it the rec didn’t we?... Yeah th- it was a- yeah we called it a
rec.... I- I- It was short for recreation ground... mm... but we
called it the rec and I fell on there.... Ooh and I had terrible
knees.... I had-... and erm-... I always had-... They were awful-...
and we’d gone to- my mother had bound them up and we’d gone to visit
me grandma who was a- she was a lovely lady and they lived in . And
she said ‘what’s she done?’ and my mother told her and she looked at
it and she said ‘get those bandages off’ because they’d all pussed
over.... Oh no.... She said erm ‘let it- let- get the air to them’. I
can always remember it and within a- a day they’d- they’d all dried
up. So -... I’ve always remembered that ever since . Your home town.
Shall we go onto home town?... Yeah you can do yeah.... A-... Do you
want me to talk or-... Yeah go on I’ll-... are you going to say where
were your parents from?... Oh parents from. Well erm my parents erm my
father worked at erm-... from , from .... Oh my- my- m- m- my erm
mother’s family originate from .... Oh okay.... That’s where erm-
that’s where they were erm born. But my father worked at Erm, which
was at Gorton. were locomotive engineers and he used to cy-... They
made the big steam trains you know.... Steam trains and that.... Oh
ok.... And he used to erm cycle from erm all the way to Gorton
every-... Wow.... and back again which is a heck of a way . Like I say
in- in regards to toys I’ve had very, very little toys. But my father
had some cowboys and indians made. He- he g- he got the erm the chaps
at work th- that make the erm moulds in- they made these erm moulds
for soldiers and cowboys and he- he made- he made them out of solid
lead. When you think now,... I used t- they weren’t painted when- and
I got them for Christmas and when I think I used to play with lead
soldiers .... Yeah .... You know which is really harmful for you. But
that was the only erm toys I had and I had them for years I was
playing with those.... My interests when I was a child, I’ve just seen
that there, erm was music. I learned to play the piano.... Oh.... And
erm I- I loved music in any- any form really.... Mm.... And I still
do. I still sing and erm we have a music group at church but of course
that’s- i- that’s lo- current at the moment but me parents, my father
was born in and my mother was born in erm- down erm in Salford in ....
Mm.... So erm I don’t know why me- me father came to live in Salford
but erm my mother’s never been anywhere- no she was born here.... And
erm I’ve got a picture of her when she was a little girl. So she’d-
she was born in nineteen hundred and two so it’s quite and old picture
.... yeah.... And if you ever want any old pictures I’ve got them....
Erm- erm we didn’t move house at all. Erm we went to live in that shop
as I say with my grandma and the next move we made was when she died
and they sold the house, my mother and father, and we went to live in
. We were still in Salford and erm Keith was in the army weren’t y-
nati- doing his national sh- service.... Yeah.... And erm we married
from the house in didn’t we.... Well I was in the army.... Yes he was
in the army.... Because erm- erm then i- it was a s- sergeant said to
me- he said- I told him that I was en- engaged-... Mm.... to be
married when I came out of the army. He said ‘well really you’d be
better marrying because you’ll get marriage allowance’.... Oh.... So
w- we arranged didn’t we-... Yes-... I’d been in the army about-...
and I was twenty one.... Yeah.... And y- Keith was twenty two when we
got married. Mm.... So we did erm get married-... Yeah.... and erm and
of course Brenda got the erm- the erm marriage allowance and saved it
up and we had a nice little nest egg didn’t we-... Mm.... when- when I
came out.... And that’s when I came up to from with a friend who was
looking at some houses erm on the front there, near .... Mm.... They
were building those semis r- just round the corner when you go towards
the Trafford Centre.... Yeah.... There’s some semis there-... Yeah....
and erm and she went to look at those and then we came to look at
these on and I liked these.... No we- we brought them up didn’t we and
y- your father’s-... No, no that was after.... Oh.... That was after.
No I brought erm I can’t remember her name now. No you weren’t very
friendly with her but then-... Mm.... I saw these and went back home
and told Keith and that’s- that’s when we came to live in .... In- in
th-... In this house in . Yeah.... Fifty five years ago.... Yeah....
Wow.... Mm.... Yeah.... Mm.... And we- we paid one thousand eight
hundred and fifty pounds.... No one thousand six hundred and fifty
pounds.... Oh one thousand six hundred and fifty pounds for it....
Sixteen hundred and fifty.... Amazing.... Eh. It’s amazing isn’t
it?... Yeah. It is.... But we brought a friend with us who was my son-
my eldest son’s godfather and they lived in . And he was a very astute
man and a very good man and a- we really were very fond of him. And he
came with us to look at them and my dad was very much against us
buying it. He said ‘you’ve got a milstone round your neck’. That’s
what he said.... But we were very happy living with your parents....
Oh yes-... They had that big house in and-... we were very, very
happy. And erm my mother- and he- my mother thought the world of Keith
and he thought the world of her. Erm but erm this friend of ours came
to talk me dad round to say that he had bought his house and it was
three hundred and forty pounds.... And that was-... And that was a
milstone round their neck but it wasn’t anymore.... No.... And he said
eventually it will be beneficial to them. So that’s- he talked my dad
round and-... Well the thing was you could rent a house then....
Mm.... You could rent houses.... Mm.... There was- there was plenty to
rent.... Mm.... I mean not like n- not like today.... But we just
liked these houses. We thought they were absolutely lovely and erm m-
m- what it- what was it we hadn’t got money for? Erm-... Oh the
erm-... and my dad lent us the twenty five pounds.... we didn’t have
the money for the erm the rest of the money for the deposit.... Mm....
It was a hundred pound deposit.... Mm.... We’d paid forty but there
was sixty outstanding and w- we k- kept coming round and having a look
and it’s- once they got the roof on they wanted the balance.... Mm....
Oh.... And I thought- the came and they’d got the roof on.... And by
the Keith wasn’t a mechanic. He was working for me father who was a
painter and decorator and you had to have e- eleven pounds a week
wages. They wouldn’t take the wife then.... Oh.... It was just the
husband it-... you know if you were working that didn’t matter.... And
I was earning ten pounds.... And he was earning ten and me- my dad
said to Keith ‘well tell them you’re earning eleven but I can’t afford
to give you that’.... so... And he- he lent us the money for the
erm-... Yeah.... the balance.... But when you think of those
figures.... Yeah.... I know.... But you see it just- it goes on and
on.... Yeah it does.... I meant when- when you get older you’ll think
well fancy those prices that we paid then.... Yeah.... So erm yeah.
Erm in your opinion how has the community changed in recent years?
Well I think it changed tr- tremendously. Tremendously. There’s a lot
of terrible things happen now that I don’t think did happen then.
Children are- are not safe anymore like they used to be. And erm-...
You can’t afford to take your eyes off them can you.... and everything
is so expensive to take them anywhere.... Mm.... I mean my son has
just been away with four and he said when you go in a- just for a
coffee.... It’s six coff- well five coffees or five drinks.... Mm....
And it’s so expensive isn’t it.... Yeah.... But erm everything has-
has really gone up in price.... The most important changes have taken
place in your town.... Mm well-... Well when we came round here from
erm- from we thought we were coming to live in the country-... In the
country.... Right.... It was beautiful.... It was so quiet-... Mm....
and erm-... Mm.... You could park anywhere in Urmston and erm- but now
I think it’s-... And we liked Urmston as it was.... It- well w- we did
yeah.... But I mean now I think they’ve just made a mess of it....
Mm.... because it’s part finished and-... Yeah.... and they’re not
saying- they’re saying until they- I think they- somebody said that
they’ve run out of money the developers.... Yeah I think they have....
And erm- so it’s just a mess I think.... I think they expected more
people to erm buy those apartments-... I think-... in the centre, but
then-... Yeah and they haven’t done. No.... No.... No. No they
haven’t. And I think they’re the ugliest looking things.... Yep... We
only said the other day look at all that horrible wood.... **inc**
timber.... Mm.... Where’s the design in that?... I know.... **inc**
it’s not-... And then of course a build-up of erm- I’m not objecting
to the Trafford Centre but the Chill Factor and erm all these big
things that keep going up. It’s just lost it’s erm I don’t know,
prettiness really. It used to be a pretty village more or less
Davyhulme. And I know things have got to progress but I don’t- I hate
all these great big things that are going up.... Yeah.... And erm I
don’t know. Local people-... but we remember the first erm-... We
remember the-... shopping centre being built in Urmston.... Yeah....
The precinct there.... Yeah.... And it was nice.... It was nice
before.... It was a nice precinct that.... It- no it was nice before
that they did that I thought.... Mm mm.... It was quite quaint. I’ve
s- I’ve got loads of pictures of that.... Mm.... How it used to be .
But erm-... But I do think there’s a lot of community things happening
now like erm the man that owns that .... Yeah.... Now f- I think it’s
the third year now that he’s put this community erm-... The summer-...
sort of a carnival type thing hasn’t he.... Yeah.... In the grammar
school gardens and I think- we went because my granddaughters were
dancing.... Ah.... They go to .... Mm.... And they were doing this
dancing group and we went to watch them and I just thought it was
lovely.... Yeah.... Yes.... All the people- local people all mingling
with one another.... Mmhmm... And I really- I r- it really uplifted me
to see them all having a good time and there was no trouble....
Yeah.... Erm and I think the community spirit here is better and hope
it will get better.... Mm.... Erm the carnival on Saturday- there’s
the carnival on Saturday and for the first time there’s erm an
ecumenical church tent being erected.... Right.... And they’re giving
free teas and cakes. In fact we’re involved with it.... Mm.... And
it’s the first time they’ve done that and erm hope- hopefully well
they will be telling people all about the things that go on in all the
churches. Hopefully we might get a few more people to come....
Yeah.... But it’s still a community thing and I think-... Gets people
together yeah.... it’s a good thing for the community... Mmhmm... Yeah
I li- I-... Yeah and erm there’s not really- when you look at the
television and see all the horrible things that happen in other towns.
I don’t know I’ve never heard of anything horrible -... No I
haven’t... happening in Urmston at night.... No.... So I just hope
that erm- there’s- I think there’s quite a long of thing to ha- to do
in this community if you’re willing to erm-... you know different erm-
erm what- what can I call them, different groups. So you needn’t be
bored. There’s lots to do really.... Yeah.... If you go out and look
for it. What’s your- do you agree with me? You see-... Yes I d-...
we’re very involved in church so I’ve always got something to do....
Mm.... I mean I’m going out tonight. No I’m going out tomorrow and erm
going out next week all the meetings start so I’ll be out about three
nights a week which is erm- is very good.... Mm.... Mm. Right ....
**inc** erm- erm.... I think it’s very sad that erm TJ Hughes has gone
from Stretford.... Yeah.... I think it’ll be a- make a big difference
to Stretford erm- erm town centre. Erm cos I like- I like that erm
shopping precinct. It’s pleasant and it’s warm and-... Mm.... erm it’s
somewhere for people to meet. I don’t know what’s going to happen
there.... Did you ever get into trouble at school? Going back a bit
now aren’t I really.... Does it matter?... No of course it doesn’t....
No it doesn’t matter? Yep .... Did you get into trouble? I didn’t-...
Yeah- oh no you didn’t, no.... I was perfect... Hey we- we used to c-
I went to School first and from there I went to school, . And on the
way home from when we were at erm-... erm the erm- we used to pass
this house that had a cherry tree hanging over the wall. And ev-
everyday you passed it seemed to get redder and redder these cherries
and me and my friends one day we thought I think we’ll have some of
those .... And we climbed on the wall and just pulled a little bunch
down and we both had one each. And they were horrible.... oh no....
But we didn’t- unknown to us there was policeman behind us who grabbed
us... and took us back to school. And erm the next morning we had to
come out in front of the- all the assembly and the pair of us were
brought out to the front and- and the teacher erm- the teacher said-
the Headteacher said I’d have- we’d have to go to his room after and
of course we were- our heads down and we both got the cane on both
hands. And when we used to walk past that house with those cherry
trees... we used to have our hands in our pockets .... Mm.... Yeah
well I think there again- I think it’s gone from the sublime to the
ridiculous.... Yes you’re not allowed to touch-... Because I think
it’s digusting now that children have got no respect-... Mm.... for
policemen and really a lot of them have not got any respect for
anybody.... Anybody. No.... And they try and blame everybody bar the
parents.... I know. The riots were terrible weren’t they.... Oh
that-... Oh that was terrible. Well what’s uplifted me was the m- the
all those young people going in and cleaning up.... Yeah.... Yes.... I
thought that was wonderful... Yeah. That was brilliant.... And some of
them looked- I thought golly you’d-... yeah.... You know so you can’t
tell by how people look.... No you’re right.... No.... But I do think
it’s erm you know that being allowed to throw stones at policemen. I
was frightened to death of policemen.... Oh yes. Y-... I- that was
silly but I’d rather it be like that-... Mm.... than like it is now. I
mean policemen are there to erm to keep-... To protect the-... to
protect people-... protect the public. Yeah th-... and the public....
And they get a terrible lot of bad pub- publicity.... Yeah.... And I
know maybe there are some sadistic policemen but most of them are very
good and decent men.... Yeah.... And erm I just think it’s awful that
children should be taught to have more respect.... Mm.... Erm and I
still blame the parents for a lot of these children.... Yeah.... Yes
it’s sad really. I-... And I think a lot of these children as well are
from broken homes and they’re living in erm social erm- erm they’re-
they’re under the care of the erm- Trafford.... Yeah.... And erm I’ve
heard reports that they just run wild and you’re not allowed to touch
them. You’re not- if- they know that if you touch them they can report
you.... Mm.... And I mean I used to get lots of smacks off my mother
and it never did me any harm at all. And erm I can always remember
when I was- my mother had just given me a good hiding and she’d gone
into the kitchen and I walked behind her and pulled my tongue out....
And she turned round and I got another one.... oh no.... And I said
‘what was that for?’ ‘because’ she said ‘you’ve just pulled your
tongue out haven’t you?’. And years after I said ‘how did you know?’.
She said ‘I just knew you were going to do that’.... But we end- we
were always the best of friends.... Mm... Really good pals.... Erm I
can stop that- this now if-three... one, two, three... yep, go... one, two, three... perfect,
when you’re ready... erm, I already know the answer to this question,
but how many brothers and sisters have you got... erm, two sisters,
one brother... two sisters?... yeah, well, Mum got with a new step-dad
didn’t she, and after about a month or so she was pregnant so...
ooh... but , she’s four... four now, bloody hell, that’s been a long
time... think she’s four... since erm, when we was in Scouts wasn’t
it?... yeah it was, when was that? About eight years ago?... God, I
can’t even remember, was it longer than that? was back in two thousand
four?... Jeez... at the latest... was you in Salford Scouts or was it
just explorers? Was in Salford Scouts as well?... yeah, yeah, well
hundredth Salford wasn’t it... hundredth, ah, you were the enemy...
yeah... fifty nine... was you? so what’ve you got, you’ve got... , ,
and **inc**... how old’s- how old’s now?... he’s four years younger
than me, so he’s... he’s not?... seventeen... Jesus... or something...
I remember him when he was about, like... oh no, is it nineteen,
might- it’s nineteen, sorry... it’s nineteen... yeah... I remember him
when he was God, how old was he, about eleven or something like
that... don’t even see him anymore, he’s w- he’s like a bit emo, he’s
got... is he? Is he?... big hole in his ear, his hair’s a mess... he
looks like a skunk actually cos he’s dyed the ends blonde at some
point... what, off power rangers... power rangers? oh dear... erm
actually, I think I seen your Granddad actually when I was doing erm,
when I was on the cavity wall insulation... yeah, I think you said you
went to try and **inc** sell it off and... yeah, I like I knocked on
his hou- I knocked on- I knocked his house and erm I sa- I saw him go
in the house so I went, ‘oh, there’s Lewis’ Grandad’... yeah... went
to knock on the house... no answer he just-... probably saw you down
the street, ‘oh, he’s trying to sell me summet’... yeah, just- just
ignoring me... ahh don’t know how many brothers and sisters you got, I
think, no-... I’ve got one brother, one sister... I didn’t know you
had- oh yeah, I did I knew you had a brother, he’s a younger brother
isn’t he?... yeah... your sister older than you?... no,... oh,
right... me sister’s erm, sister’s seventeen... seventeen... erm, -
he’s nearly twenty one now... wow... yeah, he’s going aw- he’s going
on holiday for his birthday and erm in October... oh, where’s he
going?... he’s going to erm, is it Cos... Cos, yeah... yeah, but he
failed to invite me so... that was a bit cheeky wasn’t it?... what,
he’s just invited his mates?... yeah, just going with all his mates
cos he’s- he’s good mates with erm, you know everyone that we work
with at... oh yeah... erm, so he’s going with a lot of them, all of
his mates from- from erm from when he was a, you know, doing his
bricklaying... yeah... and stuff like that, so... is he still doing
that?... no, he’s just doing- he’s working at with us, isn’t he... oh
right, okay... erm, doing a bit of- he works more in the kitchen and
does a bit of driving work as well, you know like a little bit of a...
yeah... like assistant chef yeah... that’s cool... so he’s not doing
bad, but he said he wants to get back into the erm, to the building
but erm, the last- the last guy that he worked for was an absolute
arsehole... yeah... and erm, so he’s just put him off, you know, like
the guy lived in, up Bolton way... yeah... and he used to have to be
at this guys house for about erm, used to have to be there for half
six in the morning... Jee- yeah, I remember you saying that... and
this was before- this was before he could drive... he had to get the
train or something... so he had to like, get the bus at like half five
in the morning, and you know, if he was late, the guy wouldn’t wait
for him so... that’s horrible... I think he just kind of thought ‘sack
that, I’m not- I don’t wanna be working in the bricklaying anymore’
sorta thing, but, but I’ve been trying to tell him, you know, he needs
to get back into it cos he can’t... yeah... stay at ‘til forever and
ever more, the longer you’re out of the game,... yeah, you’ll **inc**
it won’t you... the harder it’ll be to get back into it... well he’s
had his like, first job, so that’s the hardest bit isn’t it, cos...
yeah, definitely... when- then you can get references... yeah...
whereas our useless... yeah... he hasn’t had a job yet he’s- well, he
said he’s applied he d- he dropped out of college... what college was
he at?... he w- he w- he was at and then he dropped out of that and I
think he applied for... mm... and I don’t think he went for the first
day... and then just, didn’t go... what was he doing at- at ?... erm,
he was doing Computing, he was doing, is it Cisco, is that what you
were doing?... Cisco, yeah... yeah, I think he was doing that, but he
said the- the teachers are wankers and... nah, yeah, it was basically-
all it was, was erm, online modules sorta- sorta thing... right... so
we just used to sit there in front of a computer for an hour just
reading through these, you know, all these modules... yeah, and then
just doing the test... and then, like, yeah, and then at the end of
each module you have to have a test and there was no sort of like
teaching involved in it, there was like, it was just, you know, you
just sit there and read it, I think the only thing we did erm, you
know, practical stuff, cos it was all to do with networking and
computers and stuff like that, we learnt how to, you know like y- when
you get your Ethernet cables?... yeah... we learnt how to make them...
oh right, that’s alright... and we learnt to strip a computer down,
and then put it back together, they were the only things we did for
the whole two years... wow... so, there’s no wonder I did- I didn’t
erm, I didn’t pass it, cos when, you like, you’d complete all your
modules and then at the end of it you have to take a... you know, like
a test covering all the modules... yeah... so, and then if you fail
that test you have to pay for it to do it again... oh my God... oh...
so I failed it and I thought, ‘no’... ‘I’m not even bothering’... ‘I’m
not- I’m not even going back’ but you have- it’s like something like
sixty pound a go... jeez... and you know, back when I was working on
four pound an hour in- in Trafford Centre... sixty pound was quite a
bit of money... how did you do in your Electronics?... erm,
Electronics in the end, I come out with erm, a D... that’s good... so,
better than nothing isn’t it... yeah... erm, Music Technology, I only-
I scrapped that after the first year didn’t I... yeah, cos you pick
four four equivalent A-levels don’t you, and then drop one or
something... well no, basically I dropped it because it was,...
**inc**... just- I just didn’t like the tutors at all, like you know
at- when I was in school I was into all me drums and stuff... yeah...
and I like loved music, but then as soon as I got to college just, I
don’t know what- I don’t know what, but it’s just changed my, like
erm, opinion of erm, you know, trying to be a a musician sort of
thing... oh, that’s a shame... so yeah... I don’t regret it really
though I was just too lazy to practice enough... yeah... who’s your
favourite high- high school teacher then?... favourite high school
teacher?... don’t think I had one... I don’t- I don’t- I don’t think I
had- I don’t think many people- probably to be honest you know with
Music... oh, yeah... he was-... I- I rarely had him though, I had,
what’s the other one called, I think she was called or something
but... I don’t remember her... she- I think she was only there for
like a year... yeah, I know but cos- cos he was a drummer as well, you
know, he like really encouraged me and and erm, you know, he used to
help me out wherever he could... that’s cool... yeah I still see him
about cos he works for Salford Council now... right... you know for
Ma- for Mapas, Music and Performing Arts of Salford or something like
that, erm, so I- I see him about, you know when I’m dropping stuff off
at different places... yeah... so I still speak to him now and again
he was erm, decent do you- what was the worst thing you ever got into
trouble for at school?... it probably wasn’t the worst thing but he
really annoyed me, he was erm in RE he was our RE teacher, I can’t
remember if it was a woman she was-... no idea... she was horrible,
but... it was one of them subjects that you just don’t pay attention
to... yeah, she complained at me for me handwriting at some- at one
week or something, and then the next week she gave me detention cos me
handwriting was still bad and I’m like... ‘what’... ahh, the worst- I
got in trouble for a couple of things, when we was in erm, year seven
erm, I thought I’d be a bit with erm, itching powder... oh, yeah...
thought I’d be a little bit of erm, mischievous erm and then me and ,
me and and used to all mess about in erm, in Science class, this was
year ten, year ten or eleven... yeah... we always used to mess about
in Science and erm, basically you know along the Science benches...
yeah... used to get like the wooden bits along the front, and snapped
one off... so of course, you heard this like big cracking sound...
teacher looks across to us all and we’re all there, like rolling our
eyes... and the next- so he turns back, carries on with what- what
he’s doing and the next thing you know, I’ve got this piece of wood in
me hand and just head-butts it... like, snaps it in half, and then the
teacher looks round again, and I’m sat there with like two pi- two
pieces of wood in my hand... and erm, we both got te- detention for
that and erm, you remember ?... yeah... Science teacher... yeah,
oh,... we- yeah, we- we were in erm, doing detention and he- and he
comes in and he goes, ‘surprised to see you here lads, wh- what you in
here for?’ and, you know what like, he just like burst out laughing,
and I’m just sat there dead straight faced and he just went, ‘smashed
a piece of wood over his head’... like that it’s what it is- but that
was one of worst things I ever got in de- in trouble for I reckon so
are your Mum and Dad from Salford? From Manchester area?... erm my Mum
grew up where my Gran and Granddad are now... are they in still, in...
in, yeah, erm, my Dad grew up in... right, still Manchester area...
yeah, but , stepdad, I think his Mum’s part Prussian- Persian-
Prussian-... Prussian... is it East German or summet?... yeah... or,
on the edge of something and then he lives- he lived in Wales, and in
Liverpool... and then he moved over here so he’s got the weirdest
accent... it’s like, he doesn’t- he went to the chippy and I was like,
‘ah, get us a chip barm’, he went, ‘what’s a chip barm?’, ‘like, you
know, barm, with chips in it’... he was like, ‘don’t have a clue what
you’re on about’... I showed it him, and he went, ‘oh, that’s a chip
batch’... a chip batch?... like, what’s a batch?... ah, people from
other places, they call it weird things don’t they... they do... it’s
like, you know like I’ve got family that live in, in erm, in
Southend... yeah... they- they erm, they’re baffled by, literally, you
know like Peter Kay says it on- on his thingy, but they are baffled by
like chips and gravy... they just don’t have it like, my- my Aunty
who’s from up here, erm,... she has it all the time but like, the kids
they don’t eat it, I love chips and gravy... yeah, it’s the best
meal... and every time you go down and you’re like, you know, if you
go to the chippy, ‘can I have chips and gravy’ they’ll just give you
like, a portion of chips and a portion of gravy, they won’t give it
you together, if- if you want to eat it now... mm, yeah... really?
That’s well weird, ah where’s your favourite chippy?... In Salford?...
chippy erm... I can only think of two there’s or... definitely,...
yeah... the salt and pepper chips they’re nice... they’re nice...
erm... there’s one-... but the one on, you know on the , what’s it
called now, it’s a Chinese chippy on erm, you know on the ?... yeah
used to go there school... yeah, the one right at the end... yeah...
yeah, I can’t remember what it’s called now, not been there for a
while but that’s nice as well what was your erm, what was your first
job after leaving school?... I worked in Costa Coffee... oh you did,
didn’t you?... yeah... working with and that... nah, it wasn’t with
-... you worked in Trafford Centre didn’t you?... yeah, I was at the
Trafford Centre one... God, I forgot about that... cos that, well,
it’s like, went up to the manager and it’s like, ‘oh, I was thinking
like, I want a job, erm, can I have an interview or something’ he’s
like... ‘oh yeah, just come down’, cos like I didn’t have to give my
CV in or anything... yeah... I went down, and he- he- he just went,
‘do you know what, I like you’... he’s like, ‘you can have a job’
turned out he was a raving nutter, but... really... he, yeah, he
didn’t hire anybody else on and then he had a like a mental breakdown
or something, so there’s like, only six of us who work there, like I
think the hours were something like eight ‘til ten everyday, and then
he left, and it was just like us fending for ourselves... it was
horrendous... that in the Trafford Centre, yeah?... yeah... bloody
hell, I remember my- my first job working in- in Trafford, I went to
you know when the job- when the job centre used to behin- be behind
the big screen... yeah... do you remember when it used to be there?...
yeah... I went in there, you know, like looking for jobs and- and the
guy that- that was erm running it, sort of thing he said, ‘yeah,
they’ve got this one in BHS here’ erm, you know, ‘fill out this
application form’, so I filled it out... and he said that there’s
supposed to be a questionnaire to go with it... yeah... you know that,
you know, to see what your opinions are on stuff, he said, ‘we’ve not
got an- any in at the moment but erm, when it comes in I’ll fill it
out for you and hand it in’... ace... and then, so I- I- I ended up
erm getting- going- going for the interview erm, getting the job...
**inc**... I don’t- I don’t remem- I don’t remember if I’ve told you
this but you know when you go for your induction sort of thing...
yeah... erm, there was- there was about eight or ten of us sat round
this big table, and it was near- near the Christmas erm, period when I
first started... yeah... so they had some of the things that they used
to sell on Christmas shop... ahh... and erm, no word of a lie, they
had a vibrator on the table... why?... so we were all sat there going
‘what kind of, erm, company have we come to work for here?’... was it
a Christmassy one?... yeah, the- I don’t- I can’t- I honestly can’t
remember... but- and when like, the Christmas shop came in they used
to sell like, you know, like adult stuff like that, like flavoured...
yeah... condoms and everything like that, which was kind of weird,
when you’re only... sixteen and you’re like... I don’t think I applied
to work in Ann Summers... erm... what was your favourite subject,
like, of all time, apart from Music... apart from Music? God I loved
History when I was at school... oh, we had- what’s he called, that
teacher, the ginger one?... oh, he was quality... yeah, he was- he was
a good History tea- and we had erm, what was the other one called as
well? The one that really pale with black hair, the woman... ahh, no-
no I’m thinking of a man I think he was the Geography one...
**inc**... or something, no- he was Science wasn’t he... , yeah,
and... yeah... I don’t know who she was... what was she called, , was
that the one? And she got married didn’t she?... I remember the name,
but I don’t think I ever had her... yeah, yeah, she wasn’t bad either
but yeah I used to love erm, History and History and Music was about
it really, everything else I just used to loathe... yeah... what about
you?... oh, I like, I liked the Sciencey ones but I didn’t like the
teachers... yeah, Science was okay but... and I didn’t like Maths
either, was like, really geeky in it... no... but... I didn’t like
Maths, we had erm, is it... oh, she was horrendous... she was... we
had at first, and she just used to shout at me for just being in me
bag all the time... it’s just, like- it wasn’t in it, I just had it
open, I was asleep on the desk with me head in it... but yeah, and
erm, cos me and used to sit next to each other... I can imagine... so
and it was, you know, right near the back of the class so we were
always up to no good... and yeah, just, so she just used to- she never
used to like us I don’t think so that didn’t make it any better but
yeah, Science, I reckon cos it was a pretty run down school by the- by
the time we was there... it was shocking, wasn’t it?... so they never
used to have any Science equipment L; they had Bunsen burners, that
was it,... Bunsen bur- Bunsen burners... but we were banned from them,
cos we always used to set things on fire... and the clay mats that
were all like superglued back together... cause people had been
smashing them... so yeah what else, what else, what else, what else,
can you remember any good stories that your grandparents or your
parents used to tell you?... no, they’re all crap... they just tell
you rubbish, don’t they, like if I start talking to my Gran she’ll-
she just won’t shut up... yeah... she’ll just carry on, she’ll get
slightly on a tangent, and then she’ll move straight onto it, and
then-... I think a lot of Gran’s are like that aren’t they... go in a
circle well... cause my- my Gran, cos she lives down in Southend with
my Aunty and erm, so she- all the time she’s on the phone to me Mum
and me Mum’s sat there like that you know, trying to get off the phone
cos she’s just going on, and on, and on... it’s really hard as well
isn’t it, cos they don’t give you a break... I know you c- you can’t
tell them- you can’t tell them to you know, you don’t know what to...
‘hanging up now, bye’... yeah, ‘I’ve got to go now’, ‘just a minute,
just a minute’... ‘just let me tell you this’... ‘me kitchen’s on
fire, can I go?’, ‘no’... yeah she phoned up the other night, you know
when all these riots were on, on the precinct... yeah... she phoned up
to see if me Dad was working but erm, he wasn’t thankfully, he
answered the phone going, ‘hold on a minute, hold on a minute, erm,
I’m just beating these muggers off from the door’... she’s dead- she’s
dead-... he’s a firefighter your Dad isn’t he?... yeah, fireman, yeah
I always remember random stories he used to tell me when- when I was a
kid but the one that sticks out most is just like when, he’s got a
picture of it actually, w- him and one of his, erm, the lads that he
first started working with, erm like, this building’s on fire and
there’s just got a picture of them ru- both running away from this bi-
w- brick wall that’s collapsing behind them... woah... that was
pretty- pretty cool erm, picture and story to go with it... my Mum’s
just a bit of a looser, eh, you know her don’t you?... yeah... erm...
do you see her that often with your job now cos, before when you were
first doing in you her saw quite a lot when she worked on didn’t you
cos you did some of the-... y- yeah, erm,... I’ve not seen her for a
while actually, erm, you know, cos with all the council cuts...
yeah... well, everything’s been scaled back, I mean, when I first
started doing the driving erm, you know, we used to be really busy
everyday, you know, like with like ten or twelve jobs to do everyday,
but now, we’re down to about two or three... **inc**... you know, on a
good day you’ll be like, you’ll have like one big job for like eighty
people and that’s considered a busy day now... woah... whereas like,
back when we first started you know, used to do like six jobs for
twenty people, so so it has- it has erm, you know, been scaled back a
lot with all the cuts so it’s kind of erm, no, I don’t see- I don’t
see- I’ve not seen her for a while I don’t think- she’s not been to-
up to for a while I don’t-... yeah, well, she used to work at but then
she moved to round the corner so I’m not sure they do the same sort of
thing... right what d- what- yeah, what like, what years does she
teach sort of thing... she’s early so it’s nursery mainly... but
sometimes she does a bit of reception... yeah, my Mum teaches erm,
like reception she just erm, their school’s just been closed down and
th- you know, they’ve got a new one... yep... erm, what’s it called,
‘’ or something like that... oh, yeah, that’s where goes... no... no,
not erm,... it’s- that’s what Seedy went to, wasn’t it... , right...
it’s called, erm, it’s down by the river believe it or not... erm, so
yeah, th- do you know the school where she worked erm,... yeah... it’s
like, hundred and fifteen years old or something like that... woah...
and it is like, falling apart... you know, you so it’s about time they
got a new one, I think they’re, you know, merging a couple of
schools... yeah... like they did-... they’re doing that everywhere
aren’t they?... yeah, like they did with ours when... I think it’s
horrendous... was it- was it that closed wasn’t it,... yeah... and
they merged-... some dodgy Broughton people living here... merged some
of ours and some with- with bad times, when they- all the scrotes
come... yeah... erm... did you ever- ever get hurt when you was
playing as a kid?... ever get hurt? No, I- I’ve never broke a bone in
my body... really? Wow... yeah erm, the worst thing that’s ever
happened, and it sounds really naff, is erm, just pushing my, you
know, like a push bike... yeah... along, and erm, for some reason
this- this lad that used to live round the corner, erm, he come up and
he was just- just messing about like, just like kicked the back tyre,
sort of thing, and you know the- the cogs where your chain goes...
yeah... like, dug right into my leg so, got a big- big scar on my leg
where that was from... ahh... I had to go hospital and have stitches
for that, that was about the worst thing that ever- ever happened to
me... ahh we had erm, the old Scouts, some of them were like messing
around in our house... y- yeah... cos like, legged it to the back door
to like try and lock them out, just messing about, and I ran past the
ironing board and kicked the leg of it... ooh... and broke me toe...
ooh oh... that was probably the worst I did, erm, I fell out a tree at
one point and cracked me elbow like, cracked the bone in it... yeah...
ah, but, I wasn’t that bad cos-... no, I don’t think-... you don’t
really use it much... I think I’ve had a couple of burns and stuff
when I was a kid but nothing nothing worth speaking about really, just
the... scar on my leg from an idiot down the street... erm,
whereabouts did you used to play when you- when you were a kid?...
erm, well we used to live in -... did you?... yeah, erm, so there was
erm, just some like- where all the houses go round, there was like a
little patch in the middle which was just like, gravel... yeah... used
to play in there a lot but it’s just- it was just full of crap, like,
what- bits of broken wood with nails in it, used to go back with...
oh... bit of wood with a nail in your foot... yeah... so... my
brother’s done that Mum was like, ‘oh, gotta take you to hospital for
a tetanus’ and all this... get over it Mum,... just wipe it up with an
alcohol free wipe... but we used to have erm, where I used to live on
erm, do you remember the Church on the- on the- on the high-... no...
it was like a really old old church, like, pretty big church...
yeah... and we used to play on the grounds there but then they knocked
it all down and built houses over it erm, with like a- just a smaller
church to the side and we used to just like, used to have like, you
know like the massive fences along, erm... yeah... so- but we dug like
a little hole so we could s- like slide under the- under the fence...
and we built a little tree house in the- in the corner... ahh, that’s
well cool... and erm, we used to get the vicar coming out, you know,
like, shouting at us, going, ‘get off’ and, you know, private land...
and obviously, playing in- never went down to Buille Hill Park really,
but like, Oaks Park... yeah, Lightoaks is a lot nicer isn’t it?...
y-... it’s got its little pond in it... yeah, but erm, I remem- I
remember learning to ride my bike in- in Buille Hill park though...
oh, I remember that, yeah, my Granddad used to go- round the park with
us, and you used to have your stabilisers on... yeah... tried it with
stabilisers and now I couldn’t do it,... but, like, I was like, ‘I
really want to ride it without the stabilisers’ but every time he
tried I just fell off, and then one day, one of the stabilisers fell
off... yeah... like, on its own accord, I was like, ‘fine’, so, he
took the other one off I thought it was pretty good... really? I
remember when my Dad who’s like, you know, like running along behind,
holding the seat so I wouldn’t wobble, and then... yeah... I just
remember going, ‘w- why am I wobbling so much g- get hold of the
seat’, and tu- turned around an me Dad was like... miles away... a-
miles away, I’d been riding the bike and I didn’t- you know, didn’t
even know that’s the first time I remember... if you could talk to
your young self now you could say, ‘centrifugal inertia, and you can
pedal faster and you’ll be alright’... yeah ahh, they talk about that
word all the time don’t they... it’s true though like when- like on me
bike when I’m going round corners, you know, or j- or like you’re
trying to do a u- turn, the faster y- you, obviously not like twenty
mile an hour but,... yeah... the faster you’re going, then it- the
easier it is to manoeuvre it... did you ever do any extra extra
activities at erm, in school or college when we used to have to do
erm,... ah... what was it called now?... I did circus skills with...
circus skills with-... I did a bit of that... what did I do? I think I
used to do something with music, you know erm, learning to play
another instrument, I started to learn how to play guitar but you
know, drums was the way forward for me, thought, ‘chords, what are
these?’... didn’t have a clue... I did do boules at erm, High
School... oh yeah, I remember - was it... yeah, he was a right
weirdo... he u- he used to teach that didn’t he... yeah, was pretty
good actually, enjoyed that... yeah... I was rubbish at it... I don’t
think I ever used to do anything in- in a High School... there wasn’t
really much to do was there... no, I used to play a lit- little bit of
rugby but I never stuck at it really... no... you know, cos my Dad
used to play, my Dad used to play for erm, Salford Reds Juniors...
really?... and he erm, did like tours in France and Germany and all
that when they were- when he was like, when he was like nineteen,
twenty erm, he did like you know, like tours in France and stuff, and
I remember him always telling me about the coach got erm, you know,
got taken ill... yeah... and erm, him and one of his mates decided to
stay in France with him... you know, while he got better... quality...
so they just had a hol- they just had like a... piss up... think it
was like a three or four week holiday just messing about, something
like that... that’s well good what do you think of the local people in
your hometown?... what, in Salford?... yeah... well, after erm, was it
Tuesdays... erm, incidents, not a lot really... it was just a small
minority of it, spoiling it for people wasn’t it?... it was... was
anything bad near you?... I live- I live fairly near to the Salford
precinct where it was-... really... all taking place, you could see,
there was a couple of cars on f- that they’d burnt out, think it was
like the Manchester Radio car... yeah... erm, then they’d, you know
like, tipped it over and burnt it out, you could see the smoke for
miles erm, and my girlfriend, she’s like, nosey... so we- so we had to
go for a drive round didn’t we... so we went for a li- for a little
drive round and you know, like all the roads to the precinct there’s
just like, lines of li- riot police... gosh... erm, and they all
looked knackered... they’d been stood there for ages... yeah... you
know, without a break, felt sorry for them, one of my Mum’s friends
erm, he works erm, you know, training and co-ordinating the riot
police... yeah... so he was- he was like up for like forty-eight hours
straight or something daft like that... jeez... it was erm- it was all
madness wasn’t it though, but I think there’s erm, like I say, just a
lot of people spoiling it for the majority, a lot of people in Salford
are decent people... yeah... erm, just erm, what was it- cos I was
watching erm is it Question Time with young voters last night and erm,
it was saying that, you know, there’s a lot of erm... you know, it’s
not just people you know, being idiots, there is a lot of underlying
problems that they think is the cause... yeah... there are broken
families and all this erm, did you hear what H- Hazel Blears said? In
h-... ahh, I was listening on the radio, I wanted to turn it off she
just- so irritating... in erm, was it in the houses of parliament
where she said erm, you know, ‘why aren’t- why aren’t your kids in
school’ and it’s like, it’s the summer holidays... ahh, but erm,
watching- watching the news as well with- I’m sure the- the news
people just go around and find the most stupid people to talk to... I
know, they do... the stupidest people to talk to and, you know, give
interviews to and, you know, you can see why half of them haven’t got
jobs... yeah... the way- the way they talk and act... there was one
that I was listening to and he- he’s like this black guy and he- he
was like, ‘so, why are you rioting’, and he went, ‘oh, it’s just the
police, I hate the police, cos they- they hate us, they can’t stand
the colour of our skin, we’re like, black and Asian and they don’t
even care about their own colour skin’,... it’s like, they’re not
being racist then are they, they’re just, indiscriminant... like you,
plad... they’re just- they’re just stupid aren’t they see that guy
that was in Manchester city centre with his erm, with his t-shirt
pulled up over his face and his- and his sunglasses on, and he was
like, ‘the police can’t touch us today can they it’s free reign’
thought, ‘oh’ I was just watching it and I was thinking ‘why?’...
what’s the point... what are they- what do they think they’re gonna
achieve, you know, if they wanted to vent their anger I’m sure they
would find better ways than erm, smashing up their own communities did
you hear erm, TJ Hughes on the precinct, the- they’ve closed it down
now... have they, oh... because erm, you know cos it got that badly
damaged in the riots... yeah... erm, they just decided that they can’t
afford to erm, you know, repair it all, so they’ve just closed it
down, so they’re just ruining prospects for people in their own
community really aren’t they?... yeah... you know, that’s about, how
many people do you reckon are working there, fifteen, twenty people,
that’ve just lost their jobs... they now are jobless, yeah... so
they’re just adding to their own problems and- they just don’t think
about it do they... it’s erm, it’s all stupid I d- I don’t see why
they were rioting anyway, I think they were just... just any excuse
for them... copy- copy cat riots from, you know, cos I think in London
it was all to do with that guy getting shot wasn’t it... yeah... erm,
but up here, they j- they had no reason at all did they really,...
no... they were just copying it, getting away with it cos th- you
know, because they could get away with it so but erm, watching a few
erm, videos you know, that have been posted on youtube of people
getting arrested... and erm, what do you reckon- what do you reckon
about erm, you know, if people do get convicted then they should loose
their benefits... I reckon that’s quality, and loose their house,
everything... mm... that’s a good idea... at- see I- at first I- I
thought that, you know, yeah, cos they shouldn’t have been involved in
the riots and why should the tax payer have to, you know, pay for the
clean up... pay for all the damage, yeah... and pay for them who have
caused the mess... yeah... but then I was watching when I was watching
the- that programme last night and it was saying, you know, erm, is it
not just... gonna cos more problems cos these people that are already
on low incomes or no incomes have got, you know, nowhere to go, so are
they not just gonna start causing more trouble than all this...
yeah... so, there’s a bit of a argument for both sides of it really
isn’t there **inc**-... deport them... deport them, yeah L; yeah, send
them all somewhere else... mm... just make them live on a small
island... or Australia, like back in the day... execute them... did
you see that about the- was it that e-petitions where they’re trying
to get erm, you know, the death sentence brought back sort of thing...
yeah... aren’t they all mad aren’t they?... well, I think it’d be
quite good cos it’ll get like- jail’s like blocked up anyway...
yeah... if you get one’s that are stuck there for life anyway, what’s
the point in them being around... that’s very true very true erm I
don’t think it’ll deter anybody though cos, you can imagine, in
America they still have high crime rates, it doesn’t really deter
anybody does it... no, I suppose not... with- with criminals it’s erm,
when they’re committing acts of, whatever... erm, they don’t really
think about the consequences do they,... no... they don’t think, ‘oh,
I’m gonna get banged up for twenty years for smuggling ten pound- ten
million pounds worth of class A’ or whatever they just want to do it
because they’re greedy aren’t they, or-... yeah, but if they do get
rid of them then we’re not paying to house them in jails as well, so
it’ll make it cheaper for us... mmhmm... should bring back the cane in
schools, and let police beat everyone up it’ll be great... that’s
another one of the topics that was on that programme last night, he
was saying that, you know, how can you expect these, you know, these
kids, to respect the police when-... they can’t- the police can’t do
anything... they don’t even respect- they don’t even respect their own
Mums’ and Dads’... yeah... and you’re taking the powers away from the-
from the Mums’ and Dads’ to, you know, enforce that respect, because
you know, even smacking a child is frowned upon and... yeah... stuff
isn’t it, you were saying that-... can’t shout at anyone without
ending up in prison... yeah, yeah, too erm, too P-C, politically
correct, isn’t it, you know it’s all-... it’s human rights and all
that crap... bollocks in my opinion... yeah... never did me any
harm... no, it’s good... get- getting a smack round the back of the
legs... oh, I always thought back of the head was worse... no, no,
trust me, the back of the legs was worse you know, especially coming
from my Dad... I can imagine... he’s massive isn’t he?... yeah... that
was erm, fun times when I was a kid, well I d- I don’t get people
that, you know, it’s never aff- it’s never affected me in- in any way,
any- anybody that I know that got you know, a clip round the ear once
in a while... yeah... you know, it’s not affected them in you know,
like, adversely sort of- sort of way has it, you know... I suppose
they’re trying to protect people who are constantly abused but,...
yeah, but... if they’re gonna be constantly abused then they’re just
gonna be constantly- like, putting a rule in saying ‘you can’t hit
your kids’ isn’t gonna stop them... yeah, there should be- I think
they need to look at it don’t they change the rules... they do... so
have you- I don’t know what erm- what ways did you have to help
around-... help around the house when you used to live at home with
your Mam?... erm, I dunno, my Mum was more of a slob than us, so it
wasn’t too bad, but you know what my Mum’s like, she’s she only did
like, the pots and the tea every now and again,... yeah... it didn’t
really matter to be honest, we were more we all did our bit and
that... aha, yeah... you have to do anything?... used to- used to be
like a fight in our house every weekend, you know, like me Mum
dragging us out of bed at like ten o’clock on a Saturday morning when
you just wanna sleep... really... cos you’ve been up like playing on
your Xbox or whatever, ‘til like three in the morning... she’s
dragging us out of bed going, erm, trying to get us, you know, to tidy
up different things like, you can wash the pots from last night and
she used to make us like al- hoover all the- hoover all the- all the
stairs and landing and clean the bathroom and stuff like that... ah,
my Mum was pretty cool with all that, I think she did most of it...
yeah... think she just erm, made us clean our rooms, and any mess that
we left out she, like, we cleaned that up... yeah... but she did the
rest... she w- the funniest I look back on it now and I- I- I l- laugh
on it, but when- when we were kids, like cos me and my brother used to
have to share a room, erm, if that you know, became, messer, and me
Dad used to warn us, like two, or three times you know, saying, you
know, ‘tidy your room up’... yeah... and then if we didn’t do it, you
know, just go, ‘oh you know, we’ll just leave it, do it another time’,
erm, we’d come home from school one day and he would like have ripped
everything out of the wardrobes, all the toy boxes would be emptied...
you know, just everything in a big pile in the middle of the floor and
he’d just go... ‘sort it out’... ‘sort it out now’ y- you know,
‘you’re not going out until you’ve tidied your room’ so we used to
have to sit there for like you know, three hours, just... that’s quite
good that... tidying the room, and then it used to be spotless for
about two months, but then it used to get back to the same thing...
that’s why- but my room now you know, it’s always spotless so I think
that’s been drilled into me, you know... mine would be if wasn’t in it
all the time... oh, God... she’s so messy... every time comes ro- eve-
every time comes round to ours, you know, it just- it’ll be, you know,
there’ll be a few clothes you know, on the back of the chair or
whatever, but she’ll just like, throw her bag on the floor, her shoes
and everything and... ah, it annoys me you know, just spent half an
hour cleaning up and then you come round and erm, mess everything
up... yeah, I live at me own in at the moment, and it’s just bliss,
it’s just like, nobody makes a mess... yeah... and then, if I make a
mess I clean it up like pretty much straight away anyway so... that’d
be ace erm... I do miss like but she comes round and visits me, and
I’m round here more than anything, I think... yeah at least you’ve got
her your car, how’s your car doing?... yeah, it’s alright, you can-
like, it looks like there’s a really, really clean patch just on this
wheel arch where I managed to scrape it up the wall... and it’s just
got a different coloured paint on at the moment... oh it’s only like a
little scratch, but, yeah, it’s alright... mm... I’ve had a erm, just
had me car insurance... renewed... how much-... but I pay it in one...
how much?... it was well, the renewal price was one, six then erm, I
changed to Admiral for like an ultra low mileage... yeah... so, and
then it got it down to one, four, and then I put on it, and it went-
knocked it down to one three I was like... that’s weird isn’t it?...
that’s brill, but they’ve now got a tracker in it to check my
mileage... you’ve got to have a tracker on it?... I’ve got it on it,
yeah but it’s- all they do is just check how many miles you do in the
year, and if you go over then you gotta pay a premium cos I said I’ll
only do five thousand miles... yeah... which is why it went cheaper
but if my car ever gets stolen or anything I can like phone them up
and say, ‘can you just- my car’s been stolen can you-’... track it
sort of thing... yeah, turn the tracker on... that’s a- that’s a-
that’s alright isn’t it?... and then they give it all to the police,
and the police go and find it... that’s decent my bike’s got so many
cracks down the side of it where the previous owner dropped it on the
floor... ahh, have you not like, dropped it or anything yet,... nope
not dropped it at- I- I came off it in... I can’t see any cracks
actually... it’s on the- it’s on the other side I came off it in
erm... in Buille Hill park luckily,... yeah... you know on the
grass... yeah... so that was the only time I’ve fell off it so far
erm, and it was actually quite funny, I got up laughing to myself just
going, ‘oh my God’... but yeah, there’s like big cracks down the side
of it and you can see where, like it was been painted over sort of
thing, but it’s like, cos it’s like, it’s like shiny isn’t it...
yeah... but, on the other- on the other side, erm, it’s just like
matte, matte blue paint... ahh... and it just looks stupid erm, but I
can’t complain for what I paid for it and the mileage on it there’s
still- it’s not even got a thousand miles on the clock yet... has it
not... mm... wow... ah, it’s great for, you know, just going back and
forward to work you know, takes me like, well, not half the time, but
you know, depends what time, if I’ve gotta go you know, down to at you
know like five o’clock and it’s really busy, just zipping through...
mm, weaving... zipping through the traffic is pretty cool, but did I
tell you- did I tell you about that argument what I had with that van
driver?... I think you did... yeah, I was like just –... oh, you were
going past weren’t you?... yeah, I was ju- I was just like going past
the line of traffic and I stopped to let him- to let him come past on
the other side of the road, and erm, he starts shake- shaking his head
at me going, you know, like mouthing off in his van going, ‘ah, what
you doing this for, what you doing this for?’... so I was just like
you know, g- give him the fingers... and he pulled up at the side of
me there, and he was like proper screaming in my face going, ‘why
don’t you get to the back of the queue, all these other people have
gotta wait’ and I was like,... ‘I’m on a bike’... it’s part an- ‘part
and parcel of having a motorbike to be honest with you mate, you know,
I’m not gonna sit in a queue of traffic when I can just overtake
everbody am I’... no... oh, gotta think-... I really want a motorbike
now, what?... gotta think- gotta think sometimes erm, have you not
thought more about getting yours?... I have but it’s... are you gonna
wait a couple of years do you reckon?... yeah, probably until like, we
get our own place and that, cos... yeah cos I reckon- you probably
need a garage to store it in, to... yeah... to save it from getting
nicked... I could put it in the back garden at the moment, but...
mm... it’s cost as well... yeah... if I could get rid of my car then I
would, but I can’t for... no, well if you- if you, you know, cos I
know, the reason I got rid of my car was cos the insurance was just
was too high... yeah... you know, I think I was paying two thousand
pound, and it was only a little fiat punto... yeah... so I thought,
you know what, erm, this doesn’t justify it, you know, I only travel,
you know, n- not far to work do I, I walk to work most days, so I just
got rid of it and got that cos it’s cheap as chips to run, three
hundred and fifty pound a year on me insurance... that’s quality...
and erm... my tax is nearly that, road tax what was your road-... how
much- how much is your tax for a year?... oh, it’s about two hundred
and fifty five I think... bloody hell, do you know how much it is on
that... it’s probably about five or something-... fif- fifteen pounds
for the year... fifteen, ahh... don’t laugh, it’s not funny... ahh
yeah... no, it is well worth it, I would do it, but I need a car to
get **inc**... yeah, it can be- it can be a bit of a-... a pain in the
arse, you know when it’s raining or it’s a little bit cold, but...
yeah wait ‘til snow comes in winter-... well I’ve been- I’ve been
riding it since the middle of- since the middle of January, so... oh,
right... you know, I’ve been out- I’ve been out there in the cold and-
and everything like that, you know, with me long johns on...
underneath me thermals so, I erm, I can, I’ll be- plan to be riding it
until it starts snowing and getting icy, so, then it’ll go in the
garage until I can get it out again... yeah... oh, depends on the job
front, I might get a car but the insurance- insurance... a cheap one,
insure it for a month or something?... insure it- yeah, just insure it
for a month... get on... erm, I’m al- I’m already on... oh, that’s
good... but, you know, she uses it for work going back and forward to
Swinton every day told her to get a motorbike but she won’t have any
of it... I can imagine on a motorbike... ah... I told her, you know,
it won’t cost you anything... get her a sidecar for yours... yeahYou need to count to five.... One, two, three, four, five.... And
Veronica .... go on, it’s gonna be horrible this... Go on!... One,
two, three, four, five.... Yeah that’s fine, okay off you go...
Okay.... Er were there lots of kids with you when you were playing up?
Playing up, growing up... Er not partic- not particularly cos I lived
like down one of the back streets, so I think there was about six kids
on our road and they were all different ages but we all still played
together.... Oh that’s- that’s nice... what was the best or funniest
memory from when you were young?... Erm funniest? I can’t think of a
funny time... Erm oh when me and and like they were my best friends
when I was really young and we were having a sleep over at mine. It’s
not gonna sound funny now... but erm having a sleepover at mine and I
used to have big glass doors going into the conservatory.... yeah...
And we pulled the curtains across while went upstairs and closed the
doors and erm she was running away from something and ran straight
into the doors... oh no... and onto the floor it was very funny at the
time... What was yours erm funniest childhood memory then?... I don’t
think erm- I don’t remem- remember having much memories of when I was
a kid actually.... I genuinely don’t, I think I took too many knocks
on my head when I was younger... aww E: I think one of the best ones
is that- Mum told me the other day, it was when she used to go down to
spa at she used to put me in my little trike, and I used to- she said
I used to just cycle along like this, going crazy with the li- the
shopping in the front basket,... aww... just going, peddling and
peddling and peddling. I used to think I was superman **inc**... So
fast going everywhere, used to run everywhere.... yeah... How many
sis- how many brothers and sisters do you have, do you get-... Er two
sisters.... Do you get along?... no.... No .... Well we do at times
like we have our moments. We love each other on days and hate each
other on other days.... Just cos we share a room I think it gets a bit
intense at times.... yeah... It’s not too bad though is it? You just
argue a hell of a lot... and you’re all stubborn, it’s well
annoying... What funny things are there to do in your community? Not
funny, fun... What- what did you say? There’s not a lot to do but now
like we’ve all got a bit older and we can all start driving and stuff,
we can obviously go further away and there’s obviously quite a lot of
things to do. Bit of golf when it gets a bit boring.... But no-one-
no-one ever goes down with me... You’re obsessed now with the driving
range... There’s football and stuff but whatever floats your boat
really. I’m easily entertained I think. Erm are you going on holiday
this year?... Yeah with you !... where are you going?... We’re going
erm, to Catalonia in Greece.... Catalonia.... yeah... yeah... What,
isn’t it Catalonia?... Yeah.... What’s it called?... You said Cat- you
said Catalonia.... Catalonia.... It’s Catalonia, just- carry on!...
anyway we’re going Catalonia,... ruining it... on Tuesday for a
week.... Erm it’s got like the blue lagoon and stuff and nice beaches
and turtle beaches.... very nice... Hopefully it’ll be good weather
for us.... Yeah.... It’s ninety at the minute.... wow... Ooh- ooh,
can’t wait! Er what extra activities did you get involved in at
school?... Erm trampolining at . Er we did- that’s all I ever did
trampolining and dance... were you a boring kid when you were growing
up?... I wasn’t boring I was just er had other things to do.... Such
as?... shut up!... No you say something you got to elaborate on it....
What extra curricular activities did you do?... Erm, depends at
primary school there wasn’t much to do so I just did erm, played a bit
of- dabbled in a bit of rounders and... ooh... and then realised it’s
for girls and then started playing football more. And then mum used to
drive me to swimming every week and like that... Didn’t she used to
make you go for runs?... That was later on,... when she thought I was
putting on a bit... Bit of a slave-driver... What kind of games did
you play as a kid?... Erm it depends where we went really, like at
school there was always bulldog and stuff,.... I love bulldog?... and
football and catch... pretty boring things tig what about you?... erm,
tig, but some people call it tag... yeah... But I call it tig. Erm
hopscotch, skipping erm British bulldog erm, rounders, hide and
seek... Hide and seek?... Yes I played hide and seek, all-... in a
square playground... it doesn’t ask what you played at school.... Ooh,
oh right. .... Erm what was the one where you had to get back to a
place? Like you were on two teams and one team had to catch you before
you got back to-.... Manhunt.... Manhunt. And that’s around it
really.... Ah that’s good then... What do you remember from your first
day at secondary school?... Erm-.... Or grammar whichever one.... On
the first day of grammar I was like on the verge of having a panic
attack, I was so nervous!... really?... I was feeling really sick and
like cos I’d like never been with boys before like,... I hadn’t been
with boys for like five years cos I went to an all girl’s school. Erm
so it was just like really weird to go into a different environment of
like a mixed school.... mm... So I was nervous.... oh, it wasn’t that
bad though, was it?... Oh and fainted... really?... in assembly and I
had to hold her up against the wall.... Why? Just-... Erm, I don’t
know it was the very first day of assembly and like we all line up
around the walls. Erm she just fainted in the middle of it. And I was
having to hold her up cos I didn’t know what to do, it was awful. I
think I cried a bit.... cos she was my only friend and she’d fainted,
it was awful.... How would you describe erm the local people?... Local
people?... Yeah, you know, like... Well, from where I live it’s quite
rough at the end of my road. But on my street itself it’s quite
peaceful and nice. Erm friendly, everyone says hello to each other
like, known them all our lives really. Erm but at the other end of the
road-.... The dark side of the road.... It’s a bit different .... Come
to the dark side!... No it’s scary at the other end of the road....
Like when you walk past, like they don’t look at you, they don’t like
give you that little smile that other strangers might do, it’s
weird.... Oh right, okay, did-... mm... did you ever go caravanning
when you were a kid or camping?... I used to go camping, yeah and we
used to travel France.... oh, **inc**... Erm camp- going Eurocamp with
the family. But never really did caravanning. Didn’t you?... Yeah we
were hardcore caravanners... We were! I remember the first one we went
to, we went to Dorset and erm, in the middle of the night, this dog
started barking on the campsite... oh no... and we looked out the
window and there was erm- the ca- caravan opposite was on fire cos
so-... Are you joking?... No someone had a chip pan and they had a
fire and they put the wrong blanket over and it just went, ‘.’... oh
no... Up in smoke and the a- the awning was going crazy and the guy
was out but-.... Did the fire brigade come?... Yeah they did,
obviously cos it was a fire... oh, no necessarily, it could have been
a small one.... No it was really good one, it was a good holiday that
actually, we went erm on fossil beach. Not fossil beach it’s like a
beach with all like erm clay,... mm... sandstone walls... and erm it
had like, what are they called? The little snail things that they
had.... Your fossils.... yeah... Dinosaurs, the little- what are they
called?... Fossils... No they’re n- they’re animals I’m trying to
think what they’re actually called. Oh it doesn’t matter....
wossils... Wossils .... Did you move house at all when you were
younger? What memories do you have of this?... Erm I did move house
when I was younger cos I was born in Salford and- but I- I think I
moved when I was about two so I don’t really remember much of it....
mm... But we had some- I remember showing you some videos of when I
was younger as a kid at .... And mum used to have this- it used to
have towers of pots that stacked up on top of each other. And we used
to have a chair in the- like in the corner of the room and Dad used to
push the- this old pot thing and it used to roll round the chair. And
I used to be amazed by it and he must’ve been doing it for about half
an hour, I was like, just watching it go round and round,... aww... I
was amazed. Couldn’t get my hands on it I was just like, ‘no!’ Have
you ever moved house at all?... Er yeah we moved from twenty two to
fourteen, just down the road, erm, cos the new hou- for like- tw- like
from twenty two and onwards they’d already been built, and the house
we moved into was erm had been like a new build. Erm so my mum was
pregnant so we had to move into a bigger house. Erm I loved the old
house I remember- I just remember having like erm a little tea set
with erm little red love hearts on, erm and I remember had- shut up...
I didn’t say anything... We had erm- in the old house we had like,
what’s it called? Cement, and we just moved in at the very start....
And the cats walked through it so we wrote... aww... and in the cement
and we had like a special personalised gate, which had on the top cos
that was my dad’s football team and erm the cat’s name, but I only
just got that back like this year from my dad cos we left it there
when we moved house. It was really good.... aww... nice, erm what th-
what things- no, what local events do you think it’s important people
know about in your town?... you know, the us- usual stuff that goes
on, you know like markets and stuff.... Erm... we have some erm- what
are they called, car boot sales that we used to have in like a little
town hall.... That was good that brought the community together. Er I
don’t really understand the question I don’t think.... We have the May
fair. And you get the May fair queen and my little sister was the
queen one year.... aww... And you have to wear- and there’s like
floats and stuff, that go down.... Oh like down and stuff?... Yeah....
I’m sure my cousin’s **inc**.... What about you?... Erm there’s none
really round here, is there? Th- the- did the-... g- g-... oh, there’s
the s- skiing thing... that’s happening at the chill factor and it’s
quite a erm big place.... Trains .... Oh and yeah obviously we have
Chassen Park round the corner.... And erm I think it’s every Sunday
they have erm the little toy trains that go out.... steam train- Steam
trains... The steam trains and people jump on them and they go round.
And I always think with United being so close, I think it’s good when
events go on there. Because it’s big and it gets a lot of people
**inc** .... I don’t know what you’re talking about... I don’t think
that answers the question but okay.... Do you have to help out around
the house a lot, or not?... Yeah I do. .... You’re made to do it
though aren’t you?... Oh, we’re made to do it you have to do like the
mopping the sweeping, the- helping out with the cooking, which I don’t
mind cos I like that. Then we have to do the pots every night and make
our own beds, Mum doesn’t do our room any more, unlike some.... My mum
loves me! Feral child.... my mum loves me erm, but like we all get
spends for doing different chores.... yeah... so it was good... I used
to get spends but she stopped that when I moved out,... like, ‘no
you’re not having that any more.’... How about you do you do chores
around the house?... No not really, I think I’m quite lucky in that
respect I just sit around doing nothing... and Mum runs round after
everybody... She always complains about it though no-one ever makes
her do it. She always does it herself. It’s every Sunday, like when
you’re finally- you know when you’re coming back from half-term and
you’re going back to school on the Sunday she’s stressing out she’s
like, ‘oh- oh have you got your dinner have you got your dinner, have
you got your money, have you cleaned- have you packed your bag, have
you packed your bag?’... Aww.... And she gets herself in like a little
panic and starts like getting mad at everybody.... It’s like, ‘chill
out for a minute!’... where are your parents from?... That’s a good
question... I don’t know, I think they both went to erm- both from I
think. Yeah Dad used to live down near , down that way.... mm... And I
don’t know where my mum used to live. Actually my mum might’ve used to
live down near the cemetery in . And she went to school with erm dad,
as well... ooh... she was in couple of years below.... ooh... And I
think they know each other actually.... ooh... Really?... Yeah where
are your mum and dad from?... Er I think my dad’s from , I don’t- I’ve
never known him to live anywhere else. Erm and I think my da- mum’s
from , ish maybe.... yeah... good on her, good on her,... all my
family are from round here though actually. Like my nanna’s from I
think. I think that’s about it, that’s how foreign I am... no but-...
Aren’t you like half or something?... I’m not I’m like, heritage wise
like my Grandma- well my Nanna was ,... really?... my granddad was ,
my other grandma was .... My granddad was- well is-.... English....
He’s- well no he’s half Scottish or Irish, think it’s Scottish, which
is the one that wears kilts.... Scotland... he’s Scottish then, no cos
we have our own erm,... does he just- does he just walk around wearing
a kilt all the time... No but we have our own what’s-it-called, what’s
the material the kilt’s made out of? You know that pattern?... Oh
yeah.... Tartan.... Tartan we have our own tartan.... mm... We do!...
**inc** That’s a lie... no, it’s not... Do you have any pets at the
moment or-?... Er yeah I’ve got a dog called , full name .... No we’ve
got and the rabbit, .... That just gets like left out in the cold...
it doesn’t... for no love.... You don’t have any pets do you?... No I
don’t, I don’t have any middle names or anything,... oh... my parents
ju- .... What’s that got to do with anything?... No, no, no- no, cos
like you’ve got- you got- you’ve got pets and stuff and I just get
nothing. And like I remember when I was growing up I always wanted to
have a middle name like.... I don’t know why I just thought it’d be
cool to have a different middle name... what’s that got to do with
pets?... Cos I don’t have- I’m not allowed any pets and I wasn’t
allowed a middle name... Oh my god .... That’s how it goes. You’ve got
some strange middle names haven’t you? Isn’t isn’t she?... Yeah...
really?... It’s .... Cos erm-.... I saw it on her passport the other
day I was like,... ‘hang on a sec ?’... She used to get so bullied for
it. But not now she just hates it, and then mine’s and is . So they’re
not weird.... What’s that after?... .... Oh.... oh... See mine’d be
Rory... Yeah thanks for that I don’t even know what my dad’s name was
actually, so- no-... Wouldn’t your dad’s name have been the same? And
your mum’s name be different?... No my dad’s, dad’s name,... that’s
not what you said... Granddad’s name.... mm... Yeah I don’t know what-
I never met them, you see... Okay... You- you got the chance to meet
them.... What was your school like? Did you enjoy school?... Which
one? Which one?... Primary.... Er it was okay, it was just- it was a
bit of a dump to be honest.... It was like on the corner of a road
and... aww... you get all the little scally mums coming with their
kids with big Mac meals in the morning, in MacDonald’s bags, it was
horrible. But it wasn’t too bad, I was glad to get away. All the kids
were idiots as well, y-... No you hear stories like all of them, like
there’s one that lives behind me and he’s er he’s nearly been kicked
out of his house a few times. He’s been in trouble with police and
stuff. And just random stuff like that. I was lucky to get away from
it... I think, what was yours like?... I- I loved it was amazing. Erm
I think it’s changed quite a lot now. But at the time it was just
really good, it had really nice people there, everyone was really
friendly.... mm... it like- the people there like were of all
different types.... Like some were a lot rougher than others but when-
like I didn’t really notice it at such a young age, like I was friends
with anyone and everyone. And I still would be but I didn’t really
notice it,... mm... but now when you walk past you can see the
difference between... yeah... some of the kids and it is quite
rough.... Yeah I just hated our school cos th- you realise as you get
older, kids just take the mick out of anything.... Yeah... Like
everything it’s unreal. I remember one day, I w- went into school with
a cold sore on my lip.... Urgh.... And I was like- yeah they’re
horrible I know, but. And this guy’s going, ‘why’ve you got spaghetti
Bolognese on you?’... I’m like, ‘it’s- it’s in the morning, why would
I be having spaghetti Bolognese in the morning? And it just doesn’t
dry on my lip like that.’... I used to hate it... aww... But it was
nice when everyone was obviously friendly and stuff but you don’t
realise it when you’re a kid cos you’re so naïve at how stupid people
were... I know... And how easy it is to get dragged into random social
circles and stuff.... mm... Like I think I was lucky going to instead
of .... yeah... yeah.... Cos you see all the different- all the lads
that went there it’s- I know they’re not- most of them are really nice
but they’re just more prone to danger not- or not danger but
trouble.... yeah... How was ?... , what’s the question?... How was
it?... It was good. **inc**... there was quite a lot of bullying but
like you kind of just got on with it, like... like, no matter where
you go there’s always gonna be people who bully. But at the same time
like you meet loads of good people there, and so long as you get in
the right friendship group, then it was good.... mm... I went through
about four, but... I think we were lucky with bullying at .... yeah...
It was always... yeah, it’s-... dead friendly and stuff and... yeah...
Seem nice.... You always thought the ha- they’re rough people when
they didn’t hand their homework in... Not hitting teachers and stuff.
‘oh, you got a detention’ .... what is your best or funniest memory
from when you were young?... Erm I’m sure you’ve asked me this one
before, but-.... No what is your best memory?... I’ll answer it
again.... Not your funniest.... My best memory. Erm I don’t know, not
fr- I can’t remember much of my life, up until like, after year
five... I can’t remember anything before that really. But erm- I- I
know this is gonna make me sound sad but I remember when I was in year
five and I got picked to play for the year six football team, and I
was well happy... ahh... First person to do it through our school,...
ahh... and I was chuffed with that. I just... bless... used to love
football so,... what was yours?... Erm best memory was probably like
when we used to go camping in France, and erm, it was just like the
whole experience. Like when we were driving down,... yeah... me and my
dad u- well we all used to listen to like th- all the old school music
and I used to sit in the front with my dad, to try and keep him- like
to help him stay awake, and there was a time whenI don’t know cos I
was asleep but I’d- I’d fallen asleep... and songs were still playing
but I was still singing with my dad, even though I was asleep....
ahh... And like we used to go canoeing a lot. And then erm it was
like, you were going down in your canoe.... And there was a castle on
one side, and you just think you’re going straight, and the next
minute you realise the castle’s gone on the other side and it just
used to feel like, proper magical. It was so good. But the only thing
was, every time we used to go, we used to fight, with my sisters,...
oh... like proper- get into proper screaming matches, like in this
canoe like... Just throwing each other overboard.... literally we used
to have so many water fights, and not the good kind.... And erm-....
But with bad water... no, but no you know like just like playful
splash, but this was like, strangle splash... trying to drown each
other.... But like it kind of just made it, like when we went a couple
of years ago, like I couldn’t wait to go canoeing again, just to see
if it- if it was the same, it was really good.... Did you ever get
hurt when you were fighting in the water?... No. We did nearly er- not
drown, but get into quite a bit of danger once, cos me and had been
erm dec- we were in a canoe by ourselves,... so we decided to get out,
cos it was hot, and just hold on to the canoe. But somehow we managed
to lose the canoe.... So we were just floating in this river going
downstream.... And like, there was rapids coming up. And then my dad
had to like, swim over and like drag us to the side, and then we had
to catch up with the other canoe, like later on in the stream.... It
was pretty dramatic, but-.... Rescue mission hopefully .... We never
used to do anything like that. I think I remember for year seven
birthday, went erm rock- abseiling with my uncle. We went
tunnelling,... ooh... that was the only thing scary.... I’d never do
that.... Tunnelling?... Isn’t that where you go in like, little
holes?... Yeah it was pretty scary.... No, no I couldn’t do that,
claustrophobic.... Although my brother- when we- when we went, came
along with us and he was- dunno how old he was, he must’ve been about
eight or something, he had his- you know those trainers you used to
get with lights on, and we-... oh yeah... he kept hitting the bottom
of his shoes so they lit up... for that split second. So we’d know we
were okay.... But other than that it was good.... Did you ever get
her- hurt- did you ever get hurt whilst playing when you were a
kid?... Yeah a few times, remember once when my dad’s- some guy my dad
used to work with, his kid came round for the day and we used to have
one of those plastic slides in the back.... And it used to feel so big
when you were up there, but he’s a little kid who’s younger than me,
and he pushed me over the edge... of the top of the slide and I broke
my collar bone.... oh my God... Did you? Didn’t know that.... ooh,...
Yeah, sorry... thanks... really?... Yeah... didn’t know that... Yeah,
and I was in hospital obviously, I was a crip... for a few weeks...
What do you have to do if you break your collar bone, do you get like-
?... It’s just a sling, you don’t- you’re not even in a cast, I think
it’s just a arm sling.... aww... I can’t remember though and I
remember when I was learning to ride the bike, I- I- and I can picture
exactly where it is on the street as well, riding my bike I was going
along and all of a sudden I just went- like fell on my side,... and I
don’t know why and I hit- hit my head on the tree and it killed... And
I remember playing in the back and I tripped over and I hit my side of
me head on the little fence panel thing, the concrete fence panel on
the side of that.... Aww.... And my friend got sent home.... it’s
like, ‘I think you’d best go home now, he’s hurt.’ He was like,
‘okay.’ I blamed it on him, so- .... Did you ever used to have kids
round your house when you were younger? At like primary school, for
tea?... Yes. My house was the house to be-... to be at, it was so good
like, we always used to have like- like one night a week me and used
to go for each- each other’s house for tea. And then erm we always
used to have Halloween parties. Which used to like- I think I’d still
be scared now... like we- we had like the catflap that goes out to the
outside of the house and my dad stuck his hand out like with the glove
on and my dad just like when people were coming round, ‘I’ve lost my
glove, if you notice it, like let me know. And like just bring it in
to the house.’ And then we put erm, nuts or something down the side of
the house, and it was all dark and we were walking down, and my mum
was like, ‘oh these are the cockroaches, don’t worry about them.’...
yeah... And like, now it doesn’t sound scary but like it was and then
erm someone went to go grab the glove.... And my dad grabbed her hand
and literally I think it was , cried.... It was so awful . And then we
had like a hole in the table and my dad’s head was un- like up through
the hole but he had like a something covering it, so when you went to
get your piece of cake or whatever was meant to be under there, and me
Dad’d be like, ‘blar- aargh!’... with a mask on or something, it was
really good.... So erm- we always used to have like birthday parties
and have magicians and stuff over, it was good... I remember my
birthdays as a kid. Think- think the one I remember the most we had
erm- erm what’s it called now? Bouncy castle in the back garden...
right... oh yeah... and it absolutely hammered it down that night....
And the guy was sat in his van for about three hours waiting for it to
die down, he was just like this, ‘ahh’... Everyone had gone home
already and he was just there for about three hours after... aww...
Waiting for the weather to go, it was good. I used to love birth-
kid’s birthday parties. You used to get so many random toys and
stuff... And the party bags afterwards,... yeah... yeah, little bits
of cake... they were amazing. You used to always get like little
whistles and stuff and-.... Yeah and sweets and stuff.... The little
ball things.... I remember we used to go and for dessert we always
used to get erm vanilla and strawberry cake- no not cake erm, ice
cream... and with erm jelly as well, oh it was horrible but it was so
good as a kid, so much sugar at once... did you not have any parties
like that?... No... I remem- remember once when JJB first opened and
you know they had a little play area there?... Yeah... oh yeah.... And
they had the- the one half of a football pitch and someone had- er
someone invited me to their party there, said they were having it at
JJB. So I was saying to Mum, ‘oh, it’ll be a football party.’ So I had
my- had my whole football kit on, my shin pads and everything. I went
there, we were in the bloody play area,... I looked like I’d been
padded up for war rather than for playing tig in the play area.... I
was running round with my shin pads on and stuff... I was safety
proofed.... Was that, was it alphabet zoo?... oh, in Sale... The one
that used to have the big blue slide. That was like nearly- well felt
vertical I don’t know if it was.... Yeah.... Oh it was amazing and
there was erm-.... You had to get in those sacks didn’t you?...
Yeah.... to go in it... It was so good and you used to have those big
like- what are those like cylinders and you had to squeeze through the
two of them?... Oh yeah.... And then they used to have one where you
used to have to go through like four but kids used to get stuck in
there,... so they had to close it down, like that area. Because like
ch-... did they?... yeah kids were getting stuck in there.... I
remember when-... I was always so scared to go through them.... I had
a birthday party there and you used to- you always used to sit on
there. And we’ve got a video at home and I had a stiff neck. Oh my
gosh!... **inc**... no, I couldn’t move, I was at the end of the table
like, ‘urgh!’... trying to blow my candles out like ‘’ not moving my
neck at all... that’s so funny... But when- when they did that they-
they did erm- used to play party games up there as well.... mm...
yeah... And seeing myself dancing as a kid, oh my god it must’ve been
so embarrassing. Like, ‘that’s not my kid there!’... And they used to
get the inflatable slide out for you as well, when we’d all finished
and stuff... yeah... Yeah so when you finished the party and went down
the slide.... bouncing down feeling sick going, ‘argh!’... Food coming
up. I used to- I don’t think I ever went down that blue slide. Think I
was too scared. I think I might’ve b- I think I might’ve been once....
I loved it.... It’s like a vertical drop! break my neck or
something... it was amazing and you went to the ball pool at the
bottom.... Yeah.... and do you remember the massive ball pool and you
could like hide underneath.... Yeah, and then get stood on.... It was
so good. Yeah... Oh that’s a risk you’ve got to take when you’re
playing hide and seek.... I used to love that I absolutely used to
love it.... We should go.... I- I miss being a- it’s closed down...
Aww... Yeah, I miss being a kid when you’re- you see some stuff and
you’re just like- and you see like your toys now and you’re like, ‘how
did I play with them for so long?’... Yeah like Barbies, like, Oh well
maybe not you, but maybe like Ken or something or action man....
well... But like literally you’d play for hours. And what do you do
with just a doll?... yeah... It’s crazy.... I remem- yeah- I- I was
biker mice from mars and power rangers, mine were... I used to have a
little power rangers doll that my cousin got from erm, I think it was
Russia.... And I slept with it for ages... and I remember when I
thought, ‘right I’m going into secondary school now’... ‘I need to get
rid of it.’... And I remember it used to take me about an hour to get
to sleep without it.... aww.... aww... but it was horrible, I know...
bless... it’s not as bad as my brother though, when he was in like
year six, he went to the- the bear factory and got a- a stuffed
cat.... aww... that’s sad, mine was a power ranger. His was a cat...
erm describe your least favourite teacher.... Least favourite teacher,
oh .... yeah... Oh my god he was so annoying he was so patronising....
What did he teach?... Chemistry, it was- oh he used to froth at the
side of the mouth and everything... ooh.... he looks like a rat...
Like he was really nice if you wanted to do well but I remember in A-
level chemistry, he just annoyed me. And he was so patronising. Cos I
couldn’t do it, I got into A-level and I thought, ‘yeah I got an A at-
in science in gcse.’... then you go into chem.- chemistry doing
A-level like going, ‘wait a minute I don’t actually know anything
about science.’... I used to absolutely hate him. What’s yours?... Erm
I’ve always got on with all my teachers, I was a goody two shoes but I
remember in erm not erm there was this really like chubby lady teacher
that er had really dark, curly hair. And erm she was always screaming
at all the kids. And you’d hear her like three rooms down. So you were
always... you were always really scared, like to speak to her. And one
day I had to go and like tell her something, I was like sent from
class to go tell her. And I was like stood behind her waiting for her
to finish talking, but she started walking backwards and she fell on
top of me.... And I was literally like tiny... when I was little and I
was just laid underneath her and this massive woman was like on top of
me. But she couldn’t get up... And people had to help her up and I
just thought like, ‘I could never live this down,’... I wouldn’t ever
speak to her again she was so scary. Can you imagine it though, like
this massive woman like tipping over on top of you?... Just like a
turtle, not being able to get up... it’s like, ‘’. Did you ever used
to do show and tell at school, like... Er yeah we always used to. Erm
I don’t remember what I brought, I used to love it though.... I think
I w- in year six I remember bringing in my hamster... **inc**... but,
no I used to- and it was so strange cos everyone picked like- brought
in these interesting animals, and I brought in a bloody hamster...
aww... aww... The only interesting story was it tried to escape
once... The most boring pet life ever... aww... You were only ever
allowed that, weren’t you? You’ve not had anything else, pet wise?...
I’ve had a couple of goldfish from school fairs and stuff... Nice!...
I used to love our school fairs. They were really good.... were
they?... You used to have your little, erm, your sponge to throw at
your teachers and stuff.... yeah... did you?... Yeah did you not have
that?... no.... Oh you were from , they were probably throwing rocks
at teachers... Yeah but when you were a kid, no-one could hit the
teachers so it was a pretty safe bet of doing it, wasn’t it?...
sure... And sports day as well.... I loved sports day.... and I
remember the sports day that we had in , we used to have osprey,
eagle, hawk and kestrel little team- teams that you were in.... How do
you remember?... It was four birds it’s not hard... Well it could’ve
been pigeon or something... Why do you want pigeon as a team it’s
just... ‘I’ll go pigeon’... No it’s like lots of different types of
birds, it’s kind of good to remember... Yeah it was it was really fun
though.... Did you ever used to have that erm- like the two different
buckets, one was filled with water and one wasn’t and you used to have
like containers with holes in... yeah... and you had to like fill it
up and run really quick, and fill it up cos it was like leaking, and
it was your team that erm- sorry and your team had to get like the
most water in the bucket, like the quickest or something.... We were
never that equipped as a school... Our school was so bad it was
unreal.... Really?... **inc**-... Did you ever get into trouble for
something at school?... Not rea- no... Were you ever blamed- were you
ever blamed for something that wasn’t your fault?... Er I never really
got into trouble in primary school, I used to be like really good. And
th- there’s a picture in the reception, I’m not su- sure if it’s still
there. And someone took a picture of our class when we were in year
one and everyone else was like- like talking and laughing. And one of
them- I remember one of the guys, he was round the camera like doing
tongue out like that at the camera,... and I was there in the-... in
the corner with my lip, my finger against my lip and I was just
like,... I used to sit like that. I must’ve sat like that for about
four years just like, ‘yes’... proper goody two shows... I used to be
scared of getting in trouble I think.... aww... But I remember in year
six when we had erm, after the eleven plus and we got pay back time.
And we got to do like fun stuff outside.... mm... oh yeah... And
didn’t do any lessons. I remember we were- me and three other lads
were talking, we had to go and sit outside and do a bloody reading
assessment. It was so annoying and everyone else was sewing, as g- as
sad as that sounds... did you ever used to- we had to make these- our
own little erm pencil cases.... mm... And do the little sewing
patterns on it, it was really good.... well done... Thanks, I used to
hate getting in trouble though.... I remember when I got my first
detention at . I forged the signature- like the signature so me mum
wouldn’t find out.... I used to hate it.... What was your detention
for?... Erm having a naked pen in foundation studies.... You know the
one that you’d turn it round and the- the bikini costume comes off?...
It was - it was br- brother’s and he’d robbed it and brought it in.
And me, and used to sit in a three.... How old were you?... We were in
year seven, so like twelve... brought it in and me and were just like,
‘aargh!’... staring at this pen.... And the teacher came up and was
like, ‘what’s that?’ And we were like, ‘nothing nothing!’... And we
all had to stay- we had a a half an hour detention at dinner... aww...
Oh that’s awful.... It was... that’s so funny... I felt like a badass
after that though... Going round like nothing could touch me, it was
just, ‘I’ve got a detention, so what?’. Did you get in trouble?... Er
no cos like I said I was always a goody two shoes so when-... Even at
secondary school?... Even at secondary school. Ev- everyone got like-
you know like you used to get class detentions, for everybody
speaking? They always used to like pull me up at the end and say,
‘don’t bother coming back for the detention at the end of the day.’ I
was like, ‘yes!’... Bet everyone hated you... they did... ‘Get
lost’... ‘why isn’t Veronica here?’ and I was like, ‘well, I’m
good’... and then er at primary school, whenever anyone used to get in
trouble and like need an alibi, erm, they always used to come to me
and say, ‘tell them that I didn’t do this,’... ‘tell them I was
somewhere else.’ And I would be like- cos I was always cool with the
boys... and erm, there was this guy called and like you know like at
primary school you weren’t allowed to swear or anything?... And erm he
called a dinner lady something like a rude word... and- or like threw
rocks at her or something like that... And erm he came up to me and he
was like, ‘Veronica I’m going to get expelled you have to like, lie
for me.’ And I was like, ‘oh no but you’re a boy so okay.’... And I
was like, ‘no he was here with me we were reading.’ And then like,
they completely believed me and then the teacher- well the dinner lady
got in trouble.... Got sacked yeah lying... she did for ma- for making
like allegations, but she was a horrible dinner lady anyway. That was
like the worst thing I ever did.... I remember our dinner ladies we
used to- there always used to be like the ty- the stereotypical nasty
one that they were always scared of... and then there was a nice one
as well that didn’t care... aww... just like- oh and we used to have
our wet day books. When it was raining outside and we had to draw
pictures inside it.... Really?... They were like the most boring...
lunchtimes of my life, cos we used to have-... I loved drawing.... We
used to have our- I think it was- we had an hour and I think it got
split into like when you were in year three and up, you could- as soon
as you’d finished you could go out.... And have your dinner but when
you were in like reception to year two you had to wait ‘til half
past... aww... before you could go out. And we used to have to just
draw in these books and it was so boring. It was unreal... There’s
only so many times I can draw stick men... or play noughts and crosses
with myself... With yourself?... yeah... erm, can you remember a good
story that your parents slash grandparents used to tell you?... Not so
much no. I don’t- no, er my granddad died when I was younger... aww...
so- I- like I said I can’t remember anything from when I was younger
anyway, so... And my nanna- she doesn’t know what day it is, so...
ooh... so not really, no.... Aww.... There’s some interesting ones
that you listen to when you’re growing up but- nothing like major....
That sticks, yeah.... Yeah, have you?... Not really interesting or
good, it’s just-.... Do you- do you remember when your granddad made
everyone believe that he got shot in the war?... That was what I was
gonna say... oh right.... why?... well, my n- like when they were in
the war like my grandma and granddad like, they were ov- over in
Germany.... yeah... And er my nanna actually did get shot and erm- a
bomb exploded and the shrapnel like went all in her skin and stuff.
But she was okay, survived, rah, rah, rah, but my granddad had a
massive hole in his neck and he told us all that erm, he’d been shot
in the neck in the war.... Erm told my mum, mum believed it for
fifteen, twenty odd years. However long it was and we believed it up
un- like, up until a couple of years ago. And he it just came out one
day, saying like he didn’t really get shot and had an operation.... I
was like, ‘how can you tell us our entire lives that you’d got shot
and made us think like you’re some hero,’... yeah... and he just
wasn’t.... He just had like some an removed or something for whatever
reason it was.... You was gullible though... No but you should’ve-
you’ve seen the hole. Like- it’s like a good thumb like in to his
neck. It’s weird.... do you not think he would have died?... I- I-
When you think about it now,... but like you wouldn’t really doubt it
if you’d been told-.... Did your dad know that it wasn’t real?... Er I
don’t know, maybe.... My- my parents never used to play tr- tricks on
me. I just used to cry if they did .... You’re such a baby.... Stroppy
kid... I remember when we used to go to Macro and erm they used to
have the erm escalators that were flat.... mm... And obviously-.... Oh
I love those.... I remember- I never used to remember going erm, to
the airports when I was a kid and I u- I just used to run up and down
and up these escalators cos they were flat I was like, ‘yay!’... But
now you see them at asda and they’re just annoying... Especially when
they say, ‘you’re approaching the landing Please take care!’... ‘take
care!’... yeah... Where else have you been on holiday then, is it just
France and stuff, or-.... When we were little we’ve been to- used to
travel France like I said, and er we’ve been to lots of different
places in Greece, erm America a couple of times, erm trying to
think.... I’d love to go to America.... It’s amazing the food’s
amazing, really... Why cos there’s just loads of it?... Yeah... mm,
yeah... pretty much! Like at breakfast you’d have like the proper
American pancakes, scrambled eggs, bit of crispy bacon, syrup, and
like you think , ‘how disgusting does that sound?’ It’s not.... They
must put something in there just to make you think it’s nice... but
it’s really nice and the burgers. Like when me and mum used to go when
we- when I was younger, to visit her brother, erm we just used to have
to share a meal because... yeah... I couldn’t physically eat one and
it was a waste of money and mum would never eat it all so we always
used to have to share, but erm... super large portion.... We used to
go to this place called er the Crab Bucket, or something, and you used
to just get like a massive bucket of unlimited crab claws.... oh
God... And that was amazing.... Oh it sounds it yeah... It was really
nice.... Was it like our KFC?... They have crab claws we’ve got
Kentucky fried chicken... No it was really good, what about you?...
Erm when I was younger I used to go to Majorca a couple of times but
then we gave up on that side of things... And got the caravan... And
then we used to go to Dorset and Cornwall and remember the trips to
Cornwall, were over like thirteen hours, just stuck in traffic
constantly... mm... Really?... That’s when dad decided to invest in
some erm DVD players for the back seats... so we wouldn’t get too
bored.... aww... Then he used to shout at us telling us to ‘turn it
down, it’s distracting him while his driving’... And the classic, ‘if
you don’t shut up I’ll turn round!’... Fifteen hours in.... and then-
and then later on we’ve ventured to France and that’s when I got too
tall for the caravan and got kicked outside into a tent.... Oh no...
On my own. That was the last straw I think I was like, ‘I’m not going
back.’ And then later on we went to- back to Spain I think, for the
last- Oh we went to as well in Lanzarote.... mm... Like a sports
complex.... Could not have a hot summer holiday like that though....
No it wasn’t a summer holiday it was in April though, was in like
April, March for Easter holiday.... Yeah but th- wasn’t that your main
holiday?... No I don’t think so.... I’m sure it was... Probably went
caravanning after it.... Caravans.... No I used to be sca- I used to
hate like flying though.... mm... Cos like- like when you’re going up
and it like drops that bit,... yeah... when it’s going up.... I love
it.... Man it makes me stomach turn upside down. Me mum’s always like
‘oh!’ the on-... the only one on the plane that’s screaming... aww...
I went round my auntie and uncle when they took erm her daughter-
their daughter and her husband and they were filming her when my
auntie, when she was taking off.... Oh my god she looked like she was
having a panic attack, like, white knuckle ride gripping onto the-
onto the side... ‘no’... Just like head straight back into the seat
and it was like, ‘please don’t take off, please don’t take off!’ it
was so funny but it’s just weird it runs in the family stuff like
that. Like I won’t- I won’t go on rollercoasters.... mm... That’s cos
of your mum.... Unless- unless there’s peer pressure on me... l- if-
peer pressure’s the worst thing, like when we went camping, I wouldn’t
have gone into the lake if no-one else did.... Really?... Mm, it was
freezing .... Yeah, I was really tempted to go in but I didn’t get
enough peer pressure.... I get- I- I always get scared of like erm
when I’m swimming in the sea, even when-... crabs?... no when it’s
quite deep, like- I dunno I just like picture getting dragged down by
something... yeah, mm... Like a shark or something.... Yeah. Even
though I know it wouldn’t happen.... I don’t like being out of my
depths in the sea.... But I don’t know why, it’s scary, when I can’t
see the bottom it’s-... yeah... freaks me out.... yeah... Like I used
to be scared when we used to go on the ferries to France, like if it
crashed, and I was always thinking, ‘well you’d die wouldn’t you? You
wouldn’t be able to get out.’... aww... I was scared.... very
negative.... It is.... It’s me mum that... yeah... aww... And like if
you go to like Greece or somewhere, like the- the sea’s proper crystal
clear, and you can see everything. So it’s no too bad, c-... yeah... I
remember when we went to Bulgaria with the lads, the sea there was
horrible. Like it was really hot... mm... but it was just filled with
jellyfish and rubbish and-... eurgh... eurgh... you couldn’t really go
in it.... couldn’t you?... And it was all dirty and it was
horrible.... mm... So not a big fan of seas. Well I am but-.... ni-
only nice ones.... yeah... If it- yeah.... I don’t think I’d ever go
in seas here, like they must be so cold.... mm... Yeah the amount of
just rubbish that’s in it, it’s horrible.... eurgh sewage.... Y- you
see little scraggy kids just weeing in it don’t you... That is their
toilet in Blackpool it’s- it’s-... ‘do you need the toilet?’... No,
but like everyone used to pee in the pool when they were a kid and
stuff and like-.... I didn’t.... Yes you did... First I’ve heard of
it... I don’t mean like ten year old kid,... I mean like smaller....
When you were- when you were younger, I know. Just kidding, just
kidding.... right, erm- go on,... right, go on, what were you gonna
say?... I was gonna ask a question.... I was just gonna say- it
doesn’t matter, I-... I was just gonna carry on the conversation but
ask me a question, it’s okay.... I’ll answer it... Do you want me to
ask- ask you a question? Erm .... There’s- I- I w- I’m just gonna
carry on with my conversation... Like I hate how my mum and dad used
to- well my mum especially used to... ooh... make me scared of like,
loads of random things. Like rollercoasters and-... mm... sh- cos she
was always like, ‘don’t go near the edge you might die!’... And when
you’re a kid you’re like, ‘will I?’... And it kind of sticks with you,
doesn’t it, and like... yeah... yeah... subconsciously you don’t
realise it and then-... oh... Stupid cat... sorry... Are y- are you
not an animal lover then?... Oh I love animals, they just don’t seem
to love me. .... No er it’s completely different like, in my family.
Like- like, my mum was always scared but my dad was always erm
encouraging me. Like to go on rollercoasters and... mm... like proper
like, ‘seek the thrill’... Which I still do now.... like I remember
when we went to ‘Go Ape’ in- first time we went to France. I did the
first one. But I remember getting stuck on like- there’s like a
skateboard... aww... and you have to attach yourself to the top of it.
And you got to make sure your karabiners are the right way round. And
I attached one of them the wrong way.... And I was sliding down and
li- I got like a quarter of the way across on this skateboard... that
was really loose,... I was holding on for dear life. And I realised I
couldn’t go any further cos one of my karabiners was stuck round the
other pieces of wire,... and I was like, ‘no!’ Like felt like I was
gonna die up there So I had to drag myself back and unhook myself. And
I think I was scared form then on.... Yeah. Like I dragged you ‘go
ape’ the other- like... yeah... couple of months ago didn’t I?...
Yeah.... Was it that scary then?... Yeah it was pretty scary... I’m
not gonna lie. I’m not a big fan-... traumatised.... I’m not a big fan
of heights... You’re not a big fan of anything.... Well I am it’s just
like heights, I just dunno- I know nothing’s ever gonna happen but I
just feel like, what if a big gust of wind comes and like just
**inc**... You’re like, attached.... I know I am, but, no like when
you took me it was- it’s one of those things where you don’t want to
do it but then, when you’ve done it you’re like ‘yeah, let’s do it
again, let’s do it again, let’s do it again!’... Yeah, I love those
things.... But when you’re up there you’re like, ‘no no please
don’t!’... it’s a horrible circle.... It’s funny like, watching all
the like the really girly girls go around and like getting stuck....
Yeah.... And you just think- I’m always like, ‘just hurry up!’... I
get really restless.... I- in France we met this erm- Mum and dad met
this couple, and they had two kids of a similar age to me and and erm
we went with them to go ape. And it was the one- the time when I got
stuck on the skateboard. And this guy’s dad had to get erm abseiled
down by the people cos he was scared.... Why?... He couldn’t do it he
was scared of heights.... How embarrassing.... And his little ten year
old kid did it and he was- he was like hugging this tree, waiting for
the people to climb up and-.... Aww. The man or the ten year old?...
The man. R It was kind of like, ‘see dad? I’m not a girl.’... aww...
aww bless.... And he had to wait there for like half an hour while
they got all the equipment sorted up and stuff, and get carried
down.... aww... Aww I couldn’t do that, I’d rather just finish than
have the shame of s- of another full grown man carrying-.... E-
everyone watching you, ‘ha ha!’... Exactly cos you’re keeping everyone
else like up, cos you can’t like cross people’s paths when you’re up
there.... yeah... Hmm, I know.... I’d be so annoyed. I’d be like,
‘hurry up!’... Cos you’re impatient though, that’s the thing isn’t
it?... You g- just go to think like- I don’t think- you just gotta-
it’s weird, the connotation of when you are- as a kid. How much it
stays like that. And that’s about it really, isn’t it?... Yeah....
Right50 .... Right when you’re ready.... You start off Fearne then.... Well
I went to school in which is called school.... mm, mm... You know I’ve
been there for a long time. A very long- I couldn’t remember how many
years but I lived there for a long time with me parents.... mm... Erm
we moved away from -... Yeah... and lived in . I used to live at the .
Been there a long time... mm... so I moved to up road now, which as
you know I live on my own, so it’s just that erm you know I get on
with-... Were you happy at school?... Yes I was. Yeah I was happy at
school.... were you, mm... Yeah, yeah. It’s just that when I went
there, in- in... mm... I had to wear you know like- go to a- like a
clinic thing.... mm... I had to wear this cardboard hat over me head
cos the sun,... yeah, mm... for a reason, cos of me eyes, so... You’re
right, yeah. Yes.... That’s why I had me eyes tested.... mm... Some- I
mean they sent you a reminder that your eyes are due to be tested, you
know.... mm, yeah, yeah... But they always seem to be okay The- these
are me reading glasses and the ones I’ve got at home, they’re for the
television. But as I say school sports, but I never done that at all.
Well I’ve done sports but not done- I don’t think I’ve done music and
drama cos I was fostered out when I was- when I was a child.... Were
you, yeah?... yeah, yeah when me and my sister were very- w- we were
forstered out cos me mother was tookayvery ill, very poorly-... Yeah,
yes... and, I did enjoy sch- we did enjoy school... mm... you know.
But erm when we came out of fostering I can’t remember what happened
then. It’s- It was a long- a very long time ago... yeah, yeah, mm...
and your favourite teacher, well I just can’t remember about-
favourite teacher at all about that. But when I remember from your
first day at school we just enjoy- you get to know... mm... young
people you know in- in the school yard like.... And I do remember but
erm that one in I don’t- I don’t know if it’s still there or not cos
I’ve not been down to for ages.... And did you have what our school
had, an outside toilet?... I think we did.... But it was cold in the
winter... I think- I think we did. I think we did. I think we did....
Yeah, mm, yeah. You wouldn’t forget if you did, no... No, no... Now
what- were- were your summers holidays like when you were young? Well,
when I was young I had no holidays been put back- erm I don’t think I
went to go away much.... No.... When I got a bit older.... yeah... I
have been to Scotland. You know I’ve been to Scotland-... mm, you’ve
been to Scot- yeah yeah.... Err I went out with somebody like ages-
I’m going back ages ago but... mm... erm no as I said to you before
I’m on- I’m on me own now.... So I just keep on going you know. I like
my walks and everything you know.... Yeah yeah, yeah... You know I
like coming here for my lunch... Yeah yeah, yeah, yeah... I mean the
staff are very good to you.... Were you happy at school?... Yes I was
very happy at school. Yeah, yeah.... I hate- I hated it... Well you-
you had to go- you had to go didn’t you to learn.... Yeah yeah mm...
You know and erm I did have a brother. Erm mind you he’s not long with
me. He passed-... Yes, that’s it-... He passed away. I’ve got another
brother-... You’ve got another brother, yeah.... he lives in Oldham
and he do- he do- he rings me once a fortnight or I- I- or I ring
him... Yeah, yeah, yeah.... and erm I had another brother but we don’t
get on at all.... No.... and erm what extra you are. Schoo- sports,
music- we’ve said that haven’t we. I like sports you know I like
sports. No problem at all with sports. You know you do the sack race
and egg-spoon race and all this kind of thing you know.... It says
here did you ever get you ever get into trouble at school?... No I
didn’t.... No you didn’t .... No I didn’t.... No, no... Did you Edmund
?... Pardon.... Did you?... Not really no. See I- I- I started school
at .... mm... Was only there a year and me parents said it wasn’t
suitable cos of me problem with me speech.... Oh okay... They used to
hit me over the head with a ruler to get the words out and it made you
wo-... Yeah.... And then I went to . I don’t know if you’ve ever heard
of... mm... it’s a- I loved it there. There was two ladies that’s all
who taught you. I didn’t like school with having the problem with
speech.... mm... It was- you know- but erm I went and as soon as I- I
was fourteen I left.... Really?... Yeah.... Mm.... I just didn’t like
it.... mm... So did I get into trouble? No I don’t think I did. The
only t- I- yeah I got six of the best once.... Mm.... Why?... Well I
used to write d- I used to go to s- erm the school that and there’s
always a bully-... Mm.... Mm.... and I was riding me bike back to
school and he stopped me and he made me give him a lift on my
crossbar. And when I got to school- oh I got stopped- we got stopped
on the way there by a policeman.... mm... ‘Which school do you go to?’
So I told him and the middle of the afternoon I was in the
headmaster’s office and I got six of the best.... mm... Caned for
doing that. And lookayat the world today.... Mm.... Mm.... Just with
having someone on- on your bike. On your crossbar.... Well I left
school- I think I left school when I was six- I think I was sixteen
when I left s- when I left school, I-... Mm. I- I liked me childhood
days yes because I was l- lucky that our house was only about the- a
couple of hundred yards off a farm.... mm... oh, that’s nice... And I
was always on there and I love animals.... Mm.... Yeah.... And me
favourite animal’s the cow. It’s so laid back and-... Mm.... just like
that the cow you know. So I spent a- a lot of my- my time with animals
on- on the farm you know.... Yeah, that’s nice... I once- yeah I was
still at school and there was a c- c- couple of farms not- short
distance. And the farmer asked me to go to the other farm and erm
excuse me. I was walking it and there’s some ditches where all the
water drains in-... Yeah.... and there was a man on a bike acting
suspicious.... mm... So I- I watched him and then I went on and I
caught a butterfly in me hand.... Oh... He cycled up to me then and
said ‘what have you got in your hand?’ I said ‘a butterfly’ He said
erm, ‘let it go! You don’t know what it’s like t- to be fastened
up’.... mm, mm... So I did and erm I went to the other farm and
walking back I went to have a lookayin this ditch. And I found erm
clothes, prison clothes . It was an escaped prisoner.... So I left
them and I went to the police station in Urmston and they said ‘have a
lookayat will you at this bookayand see if you can find him’. And I
found him and they gave me five shillings.... Really?... yeah... Oh
five shillings oh.... S- so erm I can u- understand the story now with
the butterfly and you know... Yeah.... S- so that was on- one of my
school stories anyway and erm I suppose there’s a lot isn’t there
really. But it wasn’t bad. I enjoyed me school i- in a way....
Yeah.... Mm.... And erm and I’m a great believer your life’s mapped
out... mm... because on the piece of land I live now I lived in
nineteen thirty.... Really?... But this is a modern house now and
there was an old house on there.... mm... And I didn’t know when I
bought this house exactly where I’d lived.... That’s funny.... So I do
believe y- your life in a way your pattern of life is led.... Mm,
mm... You know because I’m going to end up where I started off you
know .... mm... Mm. Have you got any more Fearne then them that you’ve
thought of?... Well there’s one here one at the top. W- where are your
parents from? Now that’s an **inc** question because erm I got an old
photograph at home.... Mm.... Very old photograph.... Mm.... Erm when
me mother was alive-... Yeah.... she lived w- we moved away from up
to- moved up to . She was alive then-... Yeah.... but I didn’t knew me
father at all.... No.... No. So- so I don’t know about that one but
erm I mean me uncles and all that me aunties are you know passed away.
So it’s-... yeah... Yeah, yeah, yeah.... So- so it just that, erm,
w-... Is your mother from L- Lancashire or out of the county?... Erm
sh- sh- she could- she could be. I mean you know.... mm, you don’t
really know.... We don’t really know. You know you’re so young you
sometimes you know.... mm... Do you know what happened in those days?
They would never tell you anything.... Really?... Your parents. They
kept s- **inc** secret.... mm... I erm- when I was five I went to my
Grandma’s funeral in .... Yeah.... And you weren’t allowed to see
anything so I- I was taken for a walk in the village. It was a lovely
village. There was a stream and it was a beautiful village and I was
only five. And all me life I had this picture of this village and
whenever I asked my parents what it was called ‘what do you want to
know for?’ And I must’ve been about seventy and we had a motorhome
then.... And I said to my wife ‘come on. I’m going to find-...
Yeah.... the name of this village’. I knew where one of the ancestors
lived and we went into this erm village and they said ‘oh you’d better
ask at the postoffice he’ll know’. So we went in the postoffice, says
‘I can’t help you. I’ve only been here two weeks’.... Oh... So he
didn’t know any of the villagers. So an- anyway in the end we did find
a person of the surname that we were looking for. So we went round to
this house and as we- and I said to me wife ‘get out and ask this lady
walking down the path if they know a ’. So she got out and this lady
says ‘come on in it’s me mother’.... Really?... mm, oh... Yeah. And
she told me the name of the village. So after about seventy years I
went back and it still looked the same to me.... Really?... But they
had secrets they wouldn’t tell you.... mm... mm... ‘W- what do you
want to know for?’ And erm-... Yeah, yeah, yeah... So I’m half
Lancashire and half Yorkshire.... Mm.... ooh... Mother’s from
Yorkshire. Near . And me dad’s from and he was a joiner. Erm me- m-
mother w- worked in service.... mm... What was called service in those
days. She more or less lived in the house and was responsible for the
house.... yeah... Looking after it. Cleaning it, meals, everything you
know... mm... and in those days it was called service. And she worked
in then.... Mm... Erm not much about school is there at the moment?...
No, no erm... it’s just that I’m looking at this other one here,...
mm... the local evening news stories about thi- important people know
about your- your town.... Well as I said before in I meant to t- I
meant to tell you this but I got two sisters which I never seen....
No.... very long- for a very long time.... mm... I’ve got their
address and I gave it to me brother to-... mm... you know to get in
touch you know with us but I don’t know if he’s done it yet. I don’t
know. Sometimes- I usually go down to see him but he meets me so, cos
it’s a long way.... Right.... Mm.... c- cos he’s moved into a bungalow
now you see. He’s not- he’s never been married you know, he’s-...
Mm.... Well I’m not asking how old you are Fearne but -... No. I’m not
that bothered about my age.... Were you at school in the war or- or
af- or after?... I’ll be- I was born in nineteen forty one so I’ll
be-... Oh you missed it. Well no you were born in the war.... **inc**
born in the war yeah.... mm, mm, mm... So I’ve got an old big
photograph you know erm at home somewhere but erm-... Yeah.... I
remember I used to have this old three wheeled bike. Very old three
wheeled bike-... Mm oh yeah. Yeah.... A very old one you know. In ,
very old. And the people w- w- when we put our house up for sale...
Yeah.... and a nice couple b- bought it. You know nice coloured people
bought it you know... mm, mm... So that’s when we moved for my
mother’s health you know.... Yeah mm.... Mm.... So she couldn’t
travel. She couldn’t go out at all much.... Yeah.... No.... No, so...
Well the war started didn’t it in nineteen thirty nine.... Yeah, yeah
so-... And I was at school then-... Yeah.... Yeah.... which overlooked
the canal.... Oh.... Oh the boats that went along there they were
fabulous you know it’s- you don’t see them now.... No.... They’ve all
gone.... Mm.... Massive big boats with a- a- a tug a- at the front to
pull it. T- t- tug at the back to steady it back you know-... Mm....
and the bridge used to swing... and that was good there th- for a- w-
watching that you know.... Mm.... So I- I was at school when the war
started and erm it was a queer time because all the street signs were
moved. All the lights were taken awa- no lights were allowed to be
on.... Mm.... All the cars had to have a light with a slit in it
only.... It was a- a weird place didn’t it. All the names went didn’t
they.... Mm.... They were taken away and- and where I lived in there
was a barrage balloon site on the corner. And the barrage balloon was-
it was f- f- filled with gas and when the airraid came it used to go
into the air to stop aircraft d- diving down.... Oh, okay.... Because
we lived a short distance from -... Yeah, mm... which was erm industry
in the war.... Mm.... And erm- and when the wind was- if the barrage
balloon went up and it was windy the ba- the barrage balloon used to
sway into our- our back garden you know and erm yeah.... did it?...
You just were frightened to death you know and they erm and leading to
was big oil drums on the side of the road-... Right.... with a **inc**
out.... mm... And the Germans used to follow the ship c- canal from L-
Liverpool-... Mm.... when the- the moonlight was out you can be sure
there’s going to be a raid you know.... Mm.... And you used to f- f-
follow the moon No left channel... up the canal and if the wind was
blowing to Trafford Park they used to light these oil drums so a mass
of smoke went over the park and they couldn’t find it.... Oh....
Oh.... Yeah. So erm- I think I’ve lived in the best time cos radio was
still new. T- television had been thought of but it had been put on
one side because of the war.... yeah... Buses were always on time....
**inc**... Weren’t they Fearne ?... Oh yeah.... If you went out for a
bus-... It’d be there... it was there.... mm... And you can erm- it
was you know. Now what are the most important changes in- in a- in
your town?... don’t know... Mm.... Well it’s changed- we have no
cinemas left.... No. No we haven’t. There’s- that big one in Sale-...
Yeah.... that’s just standing there. I know- I used to go there one
time.... Yeah **inc**... But it’s just standing there doing nothing
you know. Sh- sh- it’s a shame really you know.... They’ve gone
because my youth I used to go to the cinema about twice a week....
Yeah.... And when I got a little bit older, do you remember Urmston
baths?... Not the old one.... Not the old one.... I know the new one.
talks about- cos it used to be the didn’t it?... Yeah.... Yeah....
Well the Urmston baths in the winter. They used to empty the water
out-... Mm.... put a wooden floor over it. And it was sprung like a
proper dance floor and they had dancing every Saturday and
Wednesday.... Really?... And they had a big bands. About a fifteen
piece band that came every week.... Ah.... Mm.... That was fun....
Mm.... And you daren’t drink cos if you’d had a drink a girl wouldn’t
dance with you.... It was very strict in those days.... So yeah U-
Urmston’s v- very busy now. Whereas I can- one- one memory I’ve got in
the school days when the war started was me mother pushing the pram
with my sister in-... Mm .... down to Urmston a blackout c- c-
curtaining you know. Cos we had orders. We hadn’t got to sh- sh- show
any lights at all and-... Yeah.... you had to have your windows
blacked out so nobody could see and that is one of the memories I’ve
got. And then the bombs dropping round you. It was a bit of a hectic
time wasn’t it.... **inc**... **inc** anxious time.... **inc** those-
those days, yeah... You never got a night in bed-... Mm.... Mm....
without you were i- in- in a- a air raid sh- shelter.... Yeah that’s
right they’d shelters didn’t they. Yeah.... No. Ours- ours was in the
house.... Really?... There was an Anderson shelter- you’ve- have you
heard of an Anderson?... I’m not quite sure if I have heard of it....
It’s all cast- and it’s all iron metal.... Right.... With four sides
and a metal top. So if the bomb- house fell on it it wouldn’t- you’d
be safe inside there you know.... Yeah.... Yeah.... We had a wired
mesh all around it like an- animals **inc**.... And that was called-
and that was inside ours. The Anderson shelter.... We had one outside
our house.... Did you?... In our old house.... yeah... It had like
pebbles over it so it looked like it was just part of the ground....
Yeah so it looked like a part of the garden. Yeah.... Oh yeah.... I
never- we couldn’t get into it cos it was all blocked off inside....
Mm.... Oh.... But at least I found **inc**.... Yeah, yeah. Yeah th-
they were scary days weren’t they in a way Fearne ?... Mm it was
yeah.... You know cos you didn’t know what’s going to happen.... I
mean I was only v- I must’ve been very young-... Yeah.... to you know.
It’s erm-... mm... Well as I said I didn’t like school.... Did you
move house at all when you were young? What memories do you have of
this?... I moved house once. I moved from where I live now to another
part of where me p- parents stayed until they p- passed away so-...
Yes.... so they were there a long time.... Mm. Mm.... I- I- I lived
there ‘til I was twenty five. Cos there was a lot going on in Urmston
then.... Mm.... I went- with being stammering I was very shy and
reserved and I thought I’ve got to do summat about this. So I went and
had d- d- d- d- dancing lessons in Urmston.... Really?... Yeah and I
enjoyed it and I’ve got all my medals for dancing .... mm... Yeah and
that was a way of b- bringing me out you know... **inc**... Yeah. Mm.
And then course you were always g- going dancing and m- we had a milk
bar in Urmston.... Did you- did you have a milk bar at all ?... If I
could remember it’s-... They only sold milkshakes.... Really?... Mm.
S- sh- shop’s still there now but they’ve run out of milk. It’s
gone.... Yeah. I tell you what I was thinking of last night. I knew
what I wanted to do when I left school and as soon as I was fourteen I
was out.... Mm.... And I wanted to be a lithographic printer.... Oh
yeah.... I was always interested in printing all- this was nineteen
forty four. There was one year left of the war. But it was ending and
there were soldiers were arriving home then.... mm... So they had to
have their old jobs back.... Right.... You c- I c- could not get a
job... mm... to be a lithographic printer. So- I’m talking a lot
aren’t I.... No you ca- no you carry on you carry on!... So there was
an advert in the newspaper. The evening news.... ‘Boy wanted to learn
lithographic printing’ Manchester. So I was there for eight o’clock
and the job had gone.... Right.... Oh.... Dear me. Anyway so they said
‘but we’ve got a vacancy in the handwritten department’. Now don’t ask
me what that was.... So they- I went along with them upstairs and they
showed me. There was about nine men working there all doing
handwritten posters-... Oh.... which they did in those days.... Mm....
I mean I can r- r- remember Urmston it was just full of posters on the
walls. Most of those were hand done.... mm... mm... All- o- others
were lithographic printed so I started there. And erm to cut a long
story short I did that the rest of my life for fifty years.... But
when I worked there got a pound a week.... A pound.... And I’ve
written this down because I’d forget it wouldn’t I... You came
prepared .... I had to go on the bus to Manchester six days a week.
That cost me fifty four d, old p- pence a week. I had to give me m-
mother ninety p oh no d, of the old money.... Mm.... I used to go to
the pictures twice a week for th- th- thirty d. Thirty pence. Thirty
eight old money and I was left with sixty six p- p- p-... **inc**...
for a week and that was a pound.... Pound.... And I used to live on
it... mm... mmhmm... and I think now. I think that’s now why it’s made
me appreciate-... Yeah.... mm... the value of money.... Mm.... And erm
if I can jump a bit further I then left there and went to work for
another firm who did, you won’t have heard of these will you-...
No.... You’ll have heard of them won’t you?... **inc**... Oh yes,
yeah, yeah.... Yeah, yeah.... **inc**... Yes. Mm.... Oh dear.... Well
the were the biggest circuit in England of cinemas.... Oh, okay....
And some cinemas used to change three times a week. Monday Tuesday
Wednesday, Thursday Friday Saturday and a different one on a
Sunday-... Right.... so people went.... Yeah.... And there was about-
I think there was sixty of us worked there. And we used to do abou- I-
I forget the amount but it was in hundreds. The circuit was in
hundreds of cinemas. And we used to do them all by hand every week.
One week’s holiday. A forty eight hour week and that’s where I really
learnt me job there you know my trade.... mm, yeah.... They went
bankrupt.... Oh no.... And I got oth- other jobs you know and then I
always wanted to have me own business and I started my own business in
nineteen sixty six . I found this old property and I started in
business on two weeks holiday pay that I’d got from the firm....
Yeah.... Fifteen- thirty pound it was for two weeks.... Uh huh....
**inc**... Out of that I had to pay sixteen pound to rent the shop. It
was a big gamble wasn’t it.... Mm.... Yeah.... But I was lucky that I
got the c- custom you know.... Yeah.... Struggled and erm- but people
were good in those days c- anyway I- I managed to get- make friends
with a chappy who worked for I think it was Esso petroleum. And he- he
was responsible for ad- advertising and he used to bring me the
advertising to do you know big wooden signs.... Yeah... And so I
hadn’t erm money to buy the wood even to do them on. But there was a
wonderful sh- shop in where th- you know they used to sell wood....
Mm.... And he said to me ‘Edmund you take it. When you get paid you
pay me’ and I thought that was lovely that.... Yeah.... You know. And
I worked on my own for t- twenty five years and enjoyed it. Erm and I
lookayback on life it’s- it’s had its bad times I’ve married twice....
Yeah.... First time okay, you can’t have it perfect can you.... Mm....
And then me wife- I went out with me wife once when I was about
eighteen and the problem was she was a friend of the fam- or their-
her parents were a friend of my parents and whenever she came round I
went out you know.... mm... Mm.... So anyway we went out with each
other once. We didn’t like each other... dear me.... We went off an
married somebody else and fifteen years later I got divorced. D-
didn’t know where was. Hadn’t the slightest where she was. Until a
friend of mine who was an insurance agent he said ‘I’ve just knocked
at a house in Stretford and this - came to the door.’ I said ‘did
she?’ He said ‘yeah’ he said erm ‘she’s got divorced and she’s living
in and she’s a bit of alright yeah Edmund ’ Left channel resumes... oh
dear... So Edmund wrote to her mother... And that’s how that started
all over again.... Really? Oh.... So you can see why I believe your
life’s mapped out.... Yeah.... Cos how did I meet her again in when I
was here?... Yeah.... You know.... And both divorced and things....
Yeah this is it you know. And that- that was fantastic that. I’ve got
a boy off me first marriage and off the second I’ve got t- two girls
you know.... **inc**... One’s okay One’s very okay, one’s lovely....
mm... And the other one sh- she was even odd with her mother you
know.... Mm.... I haven’t heard off her for a year now.... Really?...
I mean her mum died th- th- th- what three year ago now wouldn’t it
be. Yeah. And erm sh- she’s strange.... Mm.... Course there’s always
strange ones about.... mm... P- people say I’m strange. No left
channel... Well when I left school-... Yeah.... when I left school I
would **inc** I did erm I work in -... Yeah.... in a factory but erm I
was a- I was a cleaner there.... Mm.... Cleaner. You know full time
cleaner.... Oh yeah, yeah.... I’ve not just do- I’ve always done
cleaning.... Who do you work for? I might know them.... Erm well it’s
called - . It’s not- they’re not there an-... No, no.... But the
building’s still there.... Yeah. No I don’t remember them.... Erm the-
it- quite a few got made redundant.... Mm.... I couldn’t tell you how
many years that was.... Yeah.... But I was made redundant.... Yeah....
And then I worked in the erm- in the canteen you know. I’ve done
canteen work.... mm... I’ve done looking after children-... Yeah....
And erm as you know I look after dogs and all this kind of thing....
Yeah of course. Yeah yeah. Mm.... You know erm hal- in the fact the
people I’ve just c- come back from Italy-... Mm.... Erm it was me last
night last night cos they came-... They came back did they? Yeah....
**inc** back yesterday afternoon about half past two. Yeah. They were
very pleased everything was okay you know.... Yeah.... Cos they know.
I’ve been with them what it must be about twenty one years I’ve been
with them you know cos they know they can trust me there-... Mm, mm,
that’s right.... you know. They know the two cats are being getting
looked after.... That’s the most important thing in life isn’t it
trust.... Yeah.... Trust t- trust you know.... You know. If they trust
you. I’ve got a lady who does my house work and I come out many a day
and she lets herself in and I’ve got a lot of f- faith in and trust in
her and it’s nice to have-... Yeah.... Yeah yeah.... cos that’s
important part of life is trust.... Yeah yeah.... You know....
Yeah.... Isn’t it? I you don’t mind if I chatter?... No you carry
on... . It’s what he’s good at... He is isn’t he carry on.... In
ninetee- with having me own business-... Mm.... in nineteen seventy
four I was invited to join the Rotary Club . Have you heard of
Rotary?... No.... No. You’ll- you might’ve heard of Rotary.... I
might’ve heard of it. Long time ago **inc**.... They used to come
round the streets at C- Christmas time with a Christmas float. Yours
in -... Yeah they used to do it- they used-... and Lymm- Lymm- Lymm R-
Rotary Club came round.... Yeah.... And it- it was-... it was started
in America originally.... Mm.... And it’s for business men you know
who’ve reached the top of the ladder.... Yeah.... Well I couldn’t go
any higher cos I worked myself.... You see. So-... I was invited to
join you know.... Oh.... And that was good. And that gave me a lot of
confidence-... Mm.... because they have to stand up and s- give a talk
once a year.... Right.... And I was still very bad stammering. And erm
when it was my t- turn the first time they said ‘Edmund you don’t have
to do it if you don’t want’.... Yeah.... I said I’m going to make them
have it you know. But I did it okay because they’re all on your
side.... Yeah.... That’s the best part of it.... mmhmm... So I w- I
was in t- twenty one years in Rotary. I was ch- chairman of the
community section which looked after the area you know and I loved-...
I like local charity work-... Mm. Yeah. Yeah.... and looking after the
area where I know. And whenever it was my turn to speak th- the
president would announce it the week before that next weeks speaker is
Edmund Jacobs -... and we’re extending the lunch half an hour... Oh
dear.... But all that helped you.... Yeah. Yeah.... Yeah.... And do
you know what I ended up there doing? I was speaker’s secretary....
Really?... Oh .... And yeah. Now that was a good p- part of my
life.... Mm.... Mm.... An- and the wife was in- i- in the ladies
section. I was invited every year to be president but because you had
to visit other clubs I’ve turned it down. But my wife acc- c- cepted
the ladies side of it.... Mm.... oh right... so I used to go out for
free meals with her then.... .... oh dear.... So tha- that was it.
Yeah but in those days Rotary was nearly consisted of-... doctors,
surgeons, solicitors. All local people. All the shops in Urmston were
owned b- by the actual owner. They were privately owned.... Oh.... And
they were all members of the Rotary Club. But there’s none left
now.... No no.... You’ve got the dentist. You’ve got them all sorts
of- all walks of life as a member.... yeah... Yeah.... And erm but
it’s gone now. You can’t walk into any shop without its being a big c-
concern.... Yeah. Mm.... I mean there’s not a- a lot of these shops
like left... yeah... where you can s- s- see the owner.... Mm....
Yeah.... They’ve gone. That’s the personal touch that’s gone....
Yeah.... Mm.... Yeah you’re right.... Because I was- a lady I rented
me shop off she said to me cos her’s was a- next door she says ‘let me
give you a bit of advice. Get a good accountant-... Mm.... and never
lose the personal touch’.... Yeah.... And you’re always there to-...
That’s the thing with the chain stores isn’t it.... Well it is
yeah.... They don’t have the personal touches and-... It’s sad that
isn’t it you know.... Mm.... And like I said earlier on the buses were
always on time.... Mm.... I mean I had to be at work for eight o’clock
. Excuse me. And if I missed the twenty five past seven there was one
at half past.... Yeah.... And if I missed the half past there was one
at twenty five to. And the twenty five to just got me there....
Yeah.... Mm.... You know. But there wasn’t as m- many p- people on the
roads then-... Mm.... so the b- buses weren’t held up.... Yeah.... Erm
have you got anything else for a- a minute?... Well I’m on this- what
do local people like? **inc**... What do the local people like?...
Well where I- where I live in I’ve got- I’ve got good neighbours....
Yeah.... You know. Erm I mean at the back there’s no houses it’s just
fields you know.... Mm.... Right.... I do have good erm some
people-... Well I’ve noticed that now.... Yeah very ni-... Now I’m you
know on- on my own.... yeah... Everybody knows me. I know them.... bet
you chat to them all... And erm- and a- a lady opposite with her
husband you know. And when I go out at all in the evening which is
not- I don’t like to go out now. It’s not safe for-... Yeah.... older
people to go out and that’s one of the sad things of life which I’ll
go back to in a minute that. It’s reminded me of something. Erm I’ve
got to let this lady know I’m going out and w- when I’ll be back....
Yeah.... Which is good.... Mm.... So she can keep an eye on you....
It’s to keep an eye on me cos she knows if- if I don’t get up in the
morning something’s happened don’t they.... Mm.... You know what they
used to like Fearne ?... What?... Christmas time. Go into Manchester
looking at arcade.... Oh aye.... When it was Christmas it- had long
windows down the side of an arcade.... Mm.... The other side of the
arcade was and erm every window was decorated at Christmas with
animation and animals and moving and there was a real spirit of
Christmas.... Mm.... And people used to go down especially just to
look in the windows when it was closed.... Really.... Mm.... Now I
came to Urmston on Sunday and I drove th- th- through Urmston- excuse
me and nearly every window was shuttered.... Mm.... Metal shutters.
Well in my youth you could walk and look in all the shops.... Yeah....
Yeah.... Enjoy yourself. Nowhere was open... mm... but today it’s all
‘keep out’ shutters-... Keep it. Yeah. Keep out, yeah... you know. We
don’t want you and all like that and-... Mm.... No, yeah, yeah.... And
I saw s- something the other day that disgusted me really.... House
for sale sign and they’ve got to s- s- set them alight these days.
Well what do they get out of it?... Yeah.... This is it-... W- w- what
do you get out of damaging anything?... Mm. It’s the same you know a
car’s been stolen. They burn it don’t they.... Yeah.... Many times in
-... Mmhmm... they’re forced to put these new railings up at that big
school.... Mmhmm... Many time- I- and we used to go in there and we
used to look after the dogs. And they used to take the dogs in
there.... yeah... I kept them on the lead cos they weren’t my dogs....
mm... yeah... And erm I used to take you know a doggy bag with me....
Mm.... Mm.... Anyway you always see- every now and again you see cars
been burned.... Oh yeah, yeah.... And I f- I feel sorry for the
person.... The person yeah.... You know. Find out one morning the
car’s not there.... Yeah. You can’t- I can’t understand-... I- I can’t
understand why they can’t- why they do this kind of thing.... Did you
want to ask us any questions? Are w- are w- are we running out of
time?... Erm you’ve got t- ten minutes.... Ten minutes!... **inc** my
word.... My g- my-... Can I just say? Erm my wife and I we- a lot of
people don’t like caravans.... Anyway-... I had one and I used to hold
people up on the road. You know.... Erm... we did about th- th- thirty
years you know. But when I- I- I retired my s- **inc** we’ll go up
into a motorhome which was as fast as a car could go.... Yeah.... And
I’ve been all over England, Scotland and Wales and our hobby when I r-
retired was adopting the old guide dogs.... Really?... Oh yeah I
**inc**.... Oh I loved doing that and I’ve got five dogs’ ashes in the
back garden.... Oh.... And I’m an emotional person and the first dog
we adopted w- was- the owner was blind and deaf. Yeah blind and deaf.
So he had to be with a g- guide dog but he couldn’t hear as well....
God that must be difficult.... So that was difficult.... Mm.... So the
pers- so w- got her you know y- y- you’re interviewed at home to see
if you’re suitable.... Mm.... And w- when you get the dog they come
back in a fortnight to make sure that you’re- the dogs are settled....
mm, mm... Yeah.... And we- oh we went to this dog called Honey. And
the day before we got a phone call from the guide dogs. He says ‘I
hope you don’t mind he wants to meet you’. I said ‘no I don’t mind’
you know. And erm- so we went down and we met him. M- m- my wife sat
beside him and questions were asked and if it meant just a yes or a- a
no answer-... Mm.... my wife had to either t- t- t- tap his hand for
yes. I forget which way round or-... Mm.... rub it for no you know....
Oh okay... And anyway the- he had a- like a- a machine tha- a braille
machine.... Yeah.... And the guide dog people used to t- t- type the
message in and he picked it up.... Right.... So that- but he must’ve
gone deaf later in life cos he could still talk.... Yeah.... So he
could talk to us, anyhow, after half an hour he’d- he’d handed over
the- the- the lead to my wife. He’d handed over the dog’s tablets. He
had his other dog there-... Mm.... but he was handing over his eyes
and his ears.... Aw.... And after half an hour they said to me ‘Mr
Jacobs will you t- t- take the dog’s lead and go’. Well I got outside
there and I thought I’ve taken his eyes and ears away and I cried my
eyes out. and they had to take me for a cup of tea you know.... Aw
.... It’s- it’s a traumatic situation-... Yep... mm... taking away-...
Yeah. I’ve- I’ve done a lot of erm- I do a lot of charity work for-...
Yeah.... for animals you know.... Oh okay Yeah.... And I- you know you
had coppers I’d save them in a carrier bag.... Mm yeah.... Sainsbury’s
carrier bag and I take them down to erm Sale.... Yeah.... Mm.... the,
you know, for sick animals. That’s what I did because I love animals
you know. I don’t like to see people to be cruel you know.... Oh no
no.... No.... Well I seen a greyhound near- in Partington-... Mm.... I
don’t know who it belongs to but it had a- like a- one of these white
collars you know.... Oh yeah. Yeah.... I don’t know if it had escaped
from a greyhound thing or what.... Mm somebody owned it yeah.... Or-
it came up to me friendly.... Mm.... I was watching these- these lads
you know. They’re always drinking frigging beer. Wha- you know....
Yeah oh I know. Yeah mm.... I didn- I saw this- this chap ‘go away, go
a- away’.... Yeah.... And I thought leave him alone. Poor thing’s not
doing any harm.... Yeah of course he’s not hurting anyone.... Yeah....
And I took some biscuits out with me last night.... Mm.... and he
wasn’t there.... Wasn’t there.... No so I don’t know who- who owns it.
But it’s a- it’s a shame you know.... Mm.... Well, when- when we had
ordinary dogs you know pet dogs before we started to adopt-... Mm....
Oh that’s right. We got to the end of the- I- with the guide dogs....
I was saying I don’t think I can have another because of walking them.
So the vet came out with the dogs. He says ‘this dogs are l- these
dogs are lovely to walk’. T- twenty minutes a day and they spent the
rest of the time by the fire. And that was a greyhound.... Yeah....
Greyhound yeah.... Yeah.... Yeah.... So erm anyway I- I never got
round to it because me doggy died and then me wife died.... Yeah....
And on your own you can’t look after a dog.... Yeah.... But just going
back to life. Fearne and myself go to church.... Yeah.... Now whether
that’s made us any better people I don’t know.... Well it does with me
because I mean I do believe. You know.... Yeah.... I’m- I am a
Christian and I do believe.... Yeah mm.... And I do a lot for church
in .... Yeah.... mm... And I help out with the Sunday School as well
you see-... Yeah.... Mm.... with the children. The lady what’s been
doing it for a- a- well her name’s .... Mm.... She’d been doing it for
a long time. She does all the work you know and everything....
Yeah.... Yeah.... And I just go in with her to help her you know....
mm... So-... Well-... that’s what I’m going to do as well.... I
enjoyed ch- church. Really enjoyed it. Been all me life cos I was
first introduced when I was five.... Really?... With going to a church
school.... Mm.... And then a church school. And then I was in the best
youth club of all which was a church and then I moved away from the
church w- when I got married first time. Never went back. And I’ve
been a very active member involved in doing everything.... Yeah....
And enjoyed it. Now I won’t mention any names or where I’m going but
this vicar doesn’t get the best out of me.... Oh really.... Mm....
Yeah, and it’s sad that.... Yeah.... And he knows it. He’s a nice
chap. Great with my wife when she was poorly.... Yeah.... Mm.... I
mean, he said to us m- me daughter ‘any time night or day you want me
call me’.... Mm.... Well me wife died at home. Five o clock in the
mor- morning.... I was lucky that night that I had erm a nurse f- from
who was with me.... Yeah.... Cos I wouldn’t have known what to do on
me own properly.... Mm.... Mm.... So I rang me daughter up. She came
and she said ‘I’m going to ring the vicar’.... Yeah.... And he was w-
with us within half an hour.... Really? Aw.... So he- he- he was good
on that side.... Yeah.... When you really needed him he was there and
I think being a church m- member has helped me a lot in life....
Mm.... I- I’m very honest. I’m very sincere. I talk a lot.... I l- I
like to listen to you you know. I like to listen to you you know....
I’ve got hundreds of stories that I can’t- I... But is it- an- nearly
up yet?... **inc** yeah.Yeah. Can you just count to three please.... One, two, three.... Yeah.
Ok that’s great. When you’re ready.... Ok Arnold . I’ll kick off-
we’ll kick off with you shall we?... What?... Your best or funniest
memory.... Best or funniest memory from when I was young.... When you
were young.... Erm-... Can you remember that far back?... w- h- how
young are we talking about here?... Well-... Very young.... Again it
depends really on how far back you can remember .... Yeah, I think the
best- probably the best memory I have of- of being young is- is
Christmas time when all the family used to get together in those days
we- we always had all our aunts and uncles and cousins round on
Christmas day and-... Yeah.... and erm- we- w- there wasn’t an awful
lot of money but erm we used to have quite a big s- slap up meal at
lunchtimes and lots of games and lots of fun. No television of course
in those days so yeah that’s probably the best memory I’ve got from
being young.... How young were you then? When you did-... Oh from-...
when you did change?... I would think that was from being- from as
early as I can remember being through- going through to being about
twelve. Something like that.... So your life changed soon after you’ve
met me?... Yeah, yeah, yeah.... Yeah.... But erm a- as- as people grew
older they didn’t want to-... families got bigger as well. They
did-... Yeah.... th- they didn’t get together the same.... Up to that
age I erm- I think my Christmases were very similar in that people
came to us for a Christmas lunch. But because the erm, accomodation
that we had at the time was a bit cramped all the children went into
the back room and the adults were in the main dining room cos that’s
when we lived at the laundry. We had a chinese laundry in those
days.... Really?... And the- the front room was shop.... Yeah.... It
was where we did the ironing, stored the laundry that had been
packaged.... Mm.... And the middle room was the living room where we
did everything .... And the back room was the stove room.... There was
a coal fired stove with flat irons against it. But there was a big
table in there as well. So that’s where the kids sat to have their
Christmas dinner. But it was still good fun and happy times.... How
many of you?... In total people- oh- well there was-... Kids.... three
six erm I- I can’t think of it. Two sisters at the time and , myself.
wasn’t with us then.... Oh ok.... was an after thought.... yeah... I
think my mum thought she was going to get a new washing machine for
Christmas you know. She got instead.... Mm.... Erm then there’d be my
three cousins , . You’ve met haven’t you?... Yeah.... From .... Yeah.
.... And .... Mm.... And erm-... and there’d be my grandad. Auntie ,
mum, dad, uncle and auntie they were parents. Uncle and auntie they
were Pamela’s parents. Auntie used to come on her own because grandad
didn’t like uncle -... and uncle didn’t like Grandad . So he- had the-
he had Christmas dinner with his mother.... Aw.... So there was a lot
of us.... Mm.... And erm the odd friend. People like that used to pop
in throughout the day. Erm- but one of the most memorable things as a
kid happened when I was at the laundry. Erm when me grandmother was
alive she used to make beetroot wine.... Ok.... And you had to wait
for it to mature-... before you drank it. But I was being a little bit
eager and I opened one before it was ready and it was like champagne
and this red fizz went a- all over-... Ah- oh no.... freshly laudered
sheets, shirts, pillow cases.... Ha.... A whole days washing was
absolutely ruined. And I think I went to me bedroom, locked it, and I
was there for two day .... I was scared stiff of me grandad.... Hm....
He really did rule the roost.... Really?... Yeah. Fearsome character
but erm extremely kind as well -... and hard working.... Yeah.... His
day used to start at about six o clock in the morning and go on till
three o’clock the following morning.... Wow.... That was Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday. Thursday, Friday, Saturday his day started at nine
and finished about five.... Yeah.... But the laundry was all done by
then and it was just a question of taking in new stuff and delivering
your- or doleing out the laundered stuff to the erm- the regular
customers cos they nearly all were regulars in those days.... Yeah....
They all had their own laundry mark which was written on the back of
their laundry in small chinese writing... Mm.... Mm.... We didn’t know
the names we just knew the mark... Mm.... Yeah but that was all before
I knew you wasn’t it Arnold the erm-... That’s right yeah.... the
laundry.... Yeah.... You hardly ever went did you to the laundry?...
No I never went to the laundry no. We- we had erm- when I was nine
year old we- we moved into a shop. We used to have a shop in . My
mother’s ran the shop. It was erm-... Mm.... ladies and children’s
wear shop.... Oh ok.... We had a few different sidelines as well. And
my mother used to work six days a week in that.... Yeah.... Me dad was
an engineer so he went out to work where he used to help on a
Saturday.... **inc**... Yes love.... And erm when we were there for
six years altogether and erm one of the things I think I’ve mentioned
this to Barney before that always sticks in my mind that was on- on a
Saturday because my mother was still working in the shop-... Yeah....
I used to go to the local chip shop for lunch and I used to get three
lots of fish and chips for half a crown in total. Now half a crown was
twelve and a half pence. So that just shows how prices have
changed.... Yeah.... But erm one of the best things about living there
was the fact that we had a double cellar and in the cellar we used to
have a- a shooting range.... Wow.... With an air rifle.... Erm and my
dad would set up so you could- you could- you could put targets- three
targets in at one end-... Yeah.... and th- and then shoot down this
little-... walled area and erm-... we also used to do photography as
well in the cellar. We used to d- do our own developing and printing
and erm cos we had running water in this cellar. We had a sink in the
corner so- so erm yeah good times yeah. But it-... Yeah we used to do
some of that didn’t we at-... We did that in erm-... in my bedroom....
in- in the attic didn’t we.... Yeah in the attic but there was no
running water there.... No.... Mm.... I don’t know how we coped
really.... Yeah.... We did everything in my bedroom.... Right....
There was a snooker table.... Really?... Yeah and we did the
photography on top of the snooker table.... That’s right.... And when
we weren’t doing the photography we were playing snooker. And somehow
we managed to fit my bed at the other end.... Yeah. It was a big s- a
big attic.... Yeah.... That was a big attic bedroom. And it wasn’t a
small snooker table it was a three quarter size snooker table....
Really?... Yeah.... Yeah.... It was too big for a normal house and I
gave it to erm a youth club-... Mm.... in and erm unfortunately it
closed down soon afterwards didn’t it.... Oh no .... Mm mm.... And I
don’t know what happened to that table.... Mm.... Erm todays prices it
was probably worth about five, six hundred pounds.... Mm.... Wow....
But nobody wanted it cos nobody had room for it. Sign of the times....
taken my glasses away. I know it’s big print.... Are they yours?...
Mm? It’s alright.... Shall-... I can read just fine.... shall we move
on to another-... Yeah.... question?... Would you like some water?
I’ll just get some.... Do you want me to- I can get you some if you
like.... Will you? **inc**... Yeah.... We’ll carry on talking....
Please.... Where are the glasses?... Ah. Ask she’ll know.... Oh ok....
So-... Were there a lot of kids to play with when you were growing
up?... There was when I- when I lived in before we moved to the shop.
Erm there were quite a few kids in the street and they-... Mm.... erm
all similar aged. Erm and because it was a cul-de-sac it had a sort of
a- a- it opened out and there was a- a- a good play area for kids but
we had all the fields at the back as well.... And erm yeah there were
quite of- quite a number of erm both bl- boys and girls to play
with.... Yeah yeah.... Erm I was saying the age difference probably
was three or four years older than me to three or four years younger
than me. So lots of kids.... Yeah I was the same. We had lots of kids
when I was at junior school because in those days most kids went to
school near where they lived.... Yeah yeah.... Nobody went to school
by car.... No.... I don’t know how we managed. Thank you.... Thank
you.... You get a waitress service as well.... You got some- can I
have one of those mats?... Oh yeah.... Thank you.... Can I just say
when we went to junior school all the kids lived near the school....
Yeah.... Nobody ever went to school in a car.... Not even the
teachers.... Really?... They didn’t have cars did they. Oh I think
maybe the headmaster did.... Maybe I think b- by the time we went to
grammar school they probably did-... Yeah. Headmaster had one.... but
I don’t remember any of the- any of the teachers at junior school
having-... No... cars at all. But at grammar school they used to park
just behind- well- well I went to school. There’s- I did three years
at school erm before I moved to where Barney was.... Oh ok.... Erm
travelling from the shop in was about four miles to school from there
and there were probably three or four teachers had cars in those
days.... Mm.... And one of the- one of the erm- the thing that
everybody envied was my cousin. He was in the sixth form when I
started.... And he had a motorbike and he used to park this motorbike
in the- in the little- there was a little extension to the playground
where the teachers-... parked their cars. And he used to erm leave his
bike there and I was the envy of the other kids when I got a lift home
with him.... Yeah.... Yeah. We had a g-... Cause there were no crash
helmets in those- you just got on the back and went didn’t you....
Yeah there were always a couple of guys at school had motorbikes and
they were always the ones that had girlfriends and erm-... Yeah....
They’d imaged themselves on James Dean and erm-... Mm.... Tony
Curtis-... Mm.... who you might’ve heard of.... Yeah.... And they were
always the rebels who left school with no O-levels and erm-...
**inc**... Yeah.... but lots of girlfriends.... yeah.... Lots of
reputation behind them-... Mm.... which they c- couldn’t put on theirs
CVs .... But at junior school lots of kids to play with. Erm-...
Mm.... Out- out playing everyday. Erm I don’t think our parents had
any fears about us going out and s- being out.... No no.... Erm-...
When we lived at the shop in there was just down the lane was a park
with swings and- and roundabouts and-... Yeah.... sliding and erm we
used to spend all day there sometimes you know you- you didn’t w- h-
worry about your kids being out.... No.... Never heard of paedophiles
and erm-... Well it was a word that hadn’t been invented I don’t
think.... Erm I don’t think it had no and-... Erm we had one in Eccles
who I now realise was a paedophile.... Yeah.... Everyone knew him so
you just avoided him.... He was called .... Yeah.... and he wore a big
fedora-... Yeah.... hat.... Keep it anonymous.... Yeah.... Yeah I’ll
not tell you his surname.... His surname.... And he wore a big long
mac and great big boots. He was straight off a Lowry. Erm and he had a
most horrible face and sometimes you could walk down towards -...
Mm.... and you’d see him on the aquaduct. You could- his image was
there. So y- you now had to decide did you wait for your mate before
you went over the bridge to go to church-... or did you just wait ‘til
he was looking the other way and run like hell.... Well that’s how we
coped with paedophilia in those days. Just avoiding... I know.... I
never got that close to him. I don’t re-... Oh .... I don’t remember
what he looked like .... Oh I- I go-... I think he was just a legend
when I went to-... when I got to .... I got too close to his brother
one day erm- there was a guy who was in our year at grammar school .
Do you remember ?... Yeah yeah.... Oh he lived near and he had a mad
brother. And if people used to hang about outside their house he’d
open the window and he used to have a jerry under the bed.... A wee
pot or whatever . And he used to empty it.... oh no.... So- over
whoever was standing outside his house.... .... Aye that was ....
Mm.... But we were lucky where we lived because there were lots of
fields nearby.... Yeah.... Erm didn’t exist and you were soon going
toward... mm... and round there there were lots and lots of fields
where you could just enjoy yourself and-... Yeah.... go home with jam
jars full of newts and tadpoles and erm-... Tha- that’s right and
there was-... and there was no traffic on the roads. There was-...
No.... there were very few cars so you- you- there was danger of
crossing main roads and- mm-... No you could go on your bike
anywhere.... Yeah.... I mean regular bike trips were-... Mm.... places
like Lymm, Pickmere.... Mm.... And if you were really fit Chester or
Southport.... Southport even.... Really?... Mm.... Mind you I did
Chester once and I was so tired when I got there.... not surprised....
Had my- had my sandwiches bottle of pop., and I said ‘we’d better get
off’ .... ‘If I stay much longer I’ll fall asleep and I’ll never get
home’. Ah- it seems to take forever in a car now.... It does-...
Mm.... It takes- it seems to take longer in a car than it used to on
the bike.... It’s- so does Southport.... I’m sure. Used to- we always
used to reckon Southport was thirty miles but-... I’m sure it’s- it-
it’s the road system. Must be the road system these days it’s- it’s
nearer forty-... Mm.... you know.... Yeah.... I noticed one of the
questions here says did you ever get hurlt- hurt whilst playing when
you were a kid? I remember breaking my arm once.... Oh.... We used to
have- in our garden we used to have a- a six foot wall at the back.
Drop down. And we used to swing on a s- on a washing line-... out and
drop into the garden.... Yeah.... And my f- ankle got tangled up in
the rope.... Oh no.... So I swung out and my ankle stayed where it
was-... Oh.... Ah.... and I went down and I broke my arm. That’s erm-
I’ve only had three breaks in my life and that was the first one.
**inc**... I’ve- I’ve never had a break.... Haven’t you?... No....
Yeah.... Yeah.... Mind you I’ve never played rugby and you have.... My
only- I’ve only had one break playing rugby and that was this erm
metatarsal but erm I broke my ankle playing soccer-... Oh.... when I
was about eighteen, seventeen perhaps. Mm.... Yeah the only visit I
had to erm casualty as we used to call it not accident and emergency
was when I fell off a swing. Must’ve been about nine, ten and there
was a little bit of competition going on to see who could do the most
daring things on the swing.... Like jump off while it was still in the
air and not using your hands and just s- sticking with it and I got to
the back swing and just fell off chin first.... oh no.... Mm.... Yes
it was that scar.... Still got a scar?... Oh yeah.... Yeah....
Yeah.... So I went home. Mum took me to casualty and the nurse s- said
‘Oh well that’s one way to lose a bit of fat isn’t it’... Mm mm....
then she just got her scissors out and cut the excess fat off and
stitched it up.... **inc**... Done and dusted. No local. Erm so that
was swinging. Erm- Yeah, the only other time in casualty, was erm
three years ago when I fell. Tripped over -... Oh aye you did yeah....
the dog.... Oh.... I nearly lost me thumb and I had to have-...
Wow.... they couldn’t count the stitches. Well I couldn’t. I just got
fed up of trying to keep count. It was all round here as far as
there.... Oh yeah.... I was lucky that was around and erm she wrapped
a towel around it. Put it in the air.... Mm.... And she drove me to
hospital. And it was the first time she’d driven that car.... ‘I’ve
never driven it before’. But you’ll soon learn.... How are we doing
for time ?... Erm twenty one minutes.... Twenty- oh-... Gone.... ne-
ne-... **inc**... Shall we mo- shall we move on?... nearly- nearly
half term. Yes lets move on.... It’s all about school and we’ve t-...
Oh we done-... we’ve touched on school.... touch- touched on school
and erm- what have we got there scholarsh-?... Right.... Holdays?...
No where did you go to school it says.... Where did you go to school.
Oh here right.... That one.... That one... Mm hmm.... Mm hmm.... Well
I started at school.... for short. Erm was a victorian philanthropist
who did things like building hospitals and schools.... Oh ok.... And
he built one in for the erm Church of England children who lived in .
There was already a Church of England school there attached to the
church-... Mm.... called - but it was the other side of .... Oh ok....
And very few lived on that side .... Most of the kids lived on the
side. And that’s probably one reason why he sited it where he did in
erm- in .... And I should think the bridge was probably closed a lot
more in those days as well than it is- it is today-... Oh it’s very
busy traffic yeah.... cause there was a lot of traffic up and down-...
Yeah.... the ship canal-... I bet it was opened and closed every
hour.... to the docks.... Mm.... So-... Yeah.... There was a- always
queues.... Yeah so-... I remember queues when I first started driving
every time I tried to cross bridge.... Really?... Yeah.... Went there
from five ‘til- five years ‘til I was ten and then ‘til I was
seventeen. Seven years there.... Mm. I started at school in erm or on
the border I think which was just a- a standard state school. Quite
big classes in those days about- I think I remember there were forty
eight kids in the class.... Wow.... Erm and there were- it was quite a
big school because there were four streams A, B, C, and D in the
secondary school and we erm-... tended t- to have just one teacher for
all the lessons.... Yeah.... Erm and I remember that starting in the
second year at junior school and the- the teacher came in- our form
teacher and started writing on the board in real writing. And none of
us had learnt real writing before that time-... Really?... so he
realised he had to stop and teach us how to do real writing-... before
he could teach us anything else.... Gosh.... So that’s- that’s the-
the time we learnt it. And then in the fourth year we all took our
eleven plus t- to g- see if we could go to grammar schools.... Mm....
And out of the school- out of the year there were twelve people passed
their eleven plus.... Wow.... And I was one of them and I went to
grammar school.... And erm touching on one of these questions here.
First day at- at school at school. There was an initiation ceremony
and between two sets of steps and the school there was a like erm a-
a- the- the bank went down and then there was like a- a gully which
was about three foot wide and three foot deep. Erm and probably ten
yards wide at the very most and all the first year kids were thrown
into that-... Oh no... on the first day.... So there were probably
fifty or sixty kids crammed into this thing.... And if you ever-... if
you tried to get out you got thrown back in-... bodily.... Was it
that-... And that was called a monkey run.... Was that an all boys
school-... No no no no-... or was it mixed?... that was- it was mixed
but it was segregated playgrounds of course.... Yeah yeah we had
that.... Yeah it was mixed yeah.... Yeah.... Yeah. That erm- so that
was-... Yeah w- w- we had it like that.... the monkey run. Everybody
in brand new school uniforms-... Yeah.... got thrown in the dirt you
know. The first day.... Well I suppose ours was a cleansing our i-
initiation ceremony. You had your head put in the toilet and the
toilet flushed.... flushed... Mm.... I think a lot of headmasters in
those days tried to run their schools along public school lines....
Mm.... And erm they must have knew- known these intiation ceremonies
were going on-... Yeah.... Oh yeah yeah.... and it were just ‘part of
school life old chap’.... Mm.... You know .... Yeah.... Erm cos I
presume you had to wear a school cap did you?... We had to wear a
school cap at all times on the way to school-... Yeah.... on the way
home from school, lunchtimes if you went out. Although you weren’t
generally allowed out of school unless you were going home for
lunch.... Yeah then you had to have written permission for that didn’t
you.... Yeah yeah. Well I- I once got erm into trouble for going out
of school at lunchtime. We used- we used- we used-... Well I did. It
was when I went out with you to the local café .... Yeah....
**inc**... But this was when I was at -... Had a quick pepsi and a
woodbine .... We got- we got caned. Two of us went out to buy a bottle
of sauce to have with our school dinner.... And we were on second
sitting and we got caught. Called before the headmaster and we got
caned for erm going out of school at lunchtime.... Oh no.... what kind
of sauce was it?... OK .... OK .... .... Or Daddies I’m not sure. One
or the other.... Yeah yeah .... Did you have to wear short
trousers?... No we- we- we weren’t obliged to wear short trousers. I
wore long trousers in the first year.... Oh. We were erm-... But no we
could wear long trousers.... third year before we could wear long
trousers.... Mm.... In fact-... When I joined school in the forth year
there were still some of the lads-... Yeah.... wearing short
trousers-... really?... in the forth year and that would’ve been what
age fifteen, sixteen?... Fifteen, sixteen.... Yeah.... Yeah well if
the parents still thought ‘those shorts still fit’-... Yeah .... I’m
not buying you long trousers just bec-... Waste of money.... Yeah
waste of money.... Mm.... Yes it was erm- the girls wore gym slips in
the winter and dresses in the summer.... Mm.... Which they don’t seem
to do now do they.... No.... No.... That’s right they- that was erm-
that was the same at . The girls had a uniform dress for the
summer-... Yeah yeah.... for the summer term. And the other two terms
they had to wear gym slips up to a certain age and then it was skirts
and blouses wasn’t it after a certain age and ties-... Oh yes after y-
about forth year. Yeah.... Yeah. White blouses.... Yeah I’ve- I’ve got
one of those old school photographs that’s about a yard long-... or
two yards long. And you can see all the different uniform styles-...
Yeah.... according to their ages on that.... Show that to actually-...
Yeah.... It’s quite interesting-... Mm.... cause I- I think we
both-... Did you have them taken in your school?... Yeah.... Yeah
**inc** the long ones.... Yeah. I think we’re both on that one aren’t
we?... I think we are yeah.... Is that the fifty nine one- fifty eight
one?... Fifty eight, fifty nine something like that yeah.... Fifty
eight yeah. Yeah.... Yeah. You’re on the back row.... I was showing
the other night.... Were you? .... Yeah came across it. Yeah....
Mm.... Yes so we both remember our first days at school then....
Yeah.... I- I- my initiation was easy because I knew some of the lads
in the second year and erm they did me a favour and erm made sure I
didn’t get too much of a ducking in the toilets .... Yeah.... They
wanted me to play football in their team as well.... I spent my
life-... I’ve-... school life being favoured and because I had a
certain amount of what most people thought was a little bit of talent
at football.... Mm.... And erm it was misguided. This lad, cricket I
was selected for the school cricket team. And I was still in shorts
and it was ridiculous going out to play cricket in shorts.... So my
mum had to take me to the co-op in Eccles to buy me some white long
trousers to play cricket.... And I never got a bat or a bowl. I
must’ve been a pretty good fielder .... Mm. We used to erm- well we
both played for the same under fifteens-... Oh yeah yeah.... football
team. was captain who we still see occassionally.... Mm.... Mm.... And
erm Barney was vice captain and I’d just joined the school in the
fourth year. And played in one or two games classes and they picked me
to play on the under fifteens team.... Right.... So we’ve got a
photograph of that somewhere.... We have. Yeah.... Was the team
good?... We played in- and then we played e- for the school team
didn’t we the following year.... Yeah yeah.... And the erm- the full
team. But we were both quite keen on erm athletics and- and sports as
well.... Yeah.... I never played cricket very much but erm-... I used
to join in all the erm different sports day activities.... Yeah I was
erm junior athletics champion. Me and , -... That were before erm-...
Before you joined wasn’t it.... oh yeah cos you were a year- no it’s
probably the year I joined. But you were in- you were a year younger
than me.... Yeah.... So you were still in junior school weren’t
you.... Well I w- I was-... When-... in the second year.... Oh is- it
was when you were in second year was it.... Yeah yeah.... Oh.... Yeah
I think to get-... Cause I-... junior you had to be under thirteen....
Did you yeah.... Yeah.... Cause I came second to in the erm middle
school.... Mm.... Erm Rex Ludorum they used to call it.... Yeah....
King of the games.... Mm .... I came- I came second and came third.
Much to his annoyance.... .... He’d been bragging the year before-...
that he was gonna win it.... Oh .... what was the leading girl called?
If the leading man was Rex or Victor- Victor Ludorum wasn’t it- the
erm the men or the-... Was it Victor a-... Victor vic-... at . It was
Rex at .... Was it? Erm it was Victor at .... Victor at . Victor
Ludorum.... So-... I don’t know what the girl got called.... No I only
did Latin for one year.... Don’t know. Didn’t- I didn’t know any girls
called Victor.... Victoria.... Victorlia- Victoria Ludarum- Ludorum...
Oh blimey. No no-... I don’t know what’s the female-... that would-
that would stay-... what’s the female adjec-... that would stay no
Ludorum.... W- Ludorum would be the same.... Th- that would- that
wouldn’t- that wouldn’t be sexed.... You don’t change it like in
French from petit to petite.... No it’s- that- that Ludorum means ‘of
the games’ doesn’t it?... Yeah.... Mm.... So it could’ve been erm-...
Yeah Victoria Ludorum .... Vict- could’ve been Victris or some-
Victrix.... Victrix or something like that I suppose.... Yeah....
Anyway.... .... Hello.... from Mercedes Benz.... Erm could I give him
a ring back if you get his number? Please... How long?... Oh ab-
another half an hour at least.... Mm.... They always say ‘are you
happy with your car?’ and I think yeah .... Yes, music music. We did a
lot music together didn’t we. School choir-... Well yeah we were
in-... at gammar school.... the school choir and then-... School
orchestra.... No I wasn’t in the school orchestra.... Weren’t you?...
No. No I never went in the sc- well what did you play in the
school-... I played guitar but it- it was the cello part.... Oh yeah
it’s right.... Erm.... That was after I’d left I think.... Ah.... It
was when I was in the sixth form.... The teacher just put a few-...
Yeah.... notes down that normally a cellist would play.... Yeah....
And I had to just plonk them out .... No.... But we erm- we played at
the school concert didn’t we.... Played at school- school con-... Our
school dance.... school dance yeah. As a group.... Mm.... At the
hop.... Yeah. Yeah we-... Did we call them dances or did we- we didn’t
call them hops or anything?... No no no no. It was the school dance.
Yeah-... Erm.... at erm- we were the first group ever-... Yeah.... to
play at a school dance.... Oh.... **inc**... That was in nineteen
fifty eight. Christmas dance.... Aye. And what did you-... I can even
remember what songs we played .... What you sang . Go- w- w- what
songs did you play?... It was erm- I sang erm Tom Dooley and erm what
was the other one. Flip side of it. What was it called?... Oh.... Run
a- rock my soul.... Rock my soul in the bosom of-... And you sang-...
I sang-... Cliff Richard’s-... Travelling Light... Travelling Light.
Mm.... Yeah. Erm-... And we’re still practising.... still can’t play.
But I think we did- did we just do that one year?... Yeah yeah.... Did
they ask us back?... Aw... Well I w- well I left.... You left of
course yeah.... I left that Christmas.... That’s why... Yeah w- yeah I
started work. Yeah.... Yeah w- we went on to bigger- bigger and better
venues after school.... Mm.... I- Eccles town hall was our last
appearance. was the first appearance.... Yeah. And then he went off to
university so we split up then.... Oh right.... Yeah erm-... Mm....
and him and the lead guitarist and the drummer they prefered to buy
cars and motorbikes and things instead of amplification.... Mm....
Erm-... But we didn’t- no- not- no-... but we’d have- we wouldn’t have
been able- w- we had amplification of such.... As such- yeah. Of a
sort.... We had microphones sellotaped-... Yeah.... to the back of our
guitars.... leading into reel to reel tape recorders.... Wow.... So it
was really not loud at all... No... Mm. Oh it w- it was a treat to
have played at a venue where they had a microphone wasn’t it-... Oh
aye they had their own PA system.... because quite a few of them
didn’t.... Really?... So there were no mic- no amplification in some
of them.... No.... The school had a- a microphone didn’t they....
Yeah.... And the erm- certainly Eccles town hall did.... Yeah and
Urmston baths.... Mm. Mm.... Urmston baths is- do you remember when it
was the erm circular one?... Is that when it was the Curzon?...
Opposite the Curzon.... Mm. I- my dad’s told me about it.... Yeah,
well they used to have dances there.... Oh ok.... They used to put
boards over the- the pool... and we played there once at Urmston and
Flixton junior football league’s presentation evening.... Oh ok.... We
sounded good with the echoes and-... Oh yeah yeah the echoes.... the
water and-... Mm.... the roof top. And it was a complete dome at the
top made out of glass and one year I think it was s- let me see was
about six or seven. It’d have been about nineteen eighty. We had in-
tremendous hale stones. Bigger than golf balls.... Wow.... And they
went right through the roof of Urmston baths.... Oh.... And of course
all the glass followed and all the tiles were damaged and-... the
council said it’s erm not economical to repair. So they knocked it
down.... Oh is that why?... Yeah-... Oh I didn’t know that.... and it
was a magnificent building. Th-... I’ve seen a picture of- mm.... they
had diving boards and erm nice café sauna. Did you ever go? Erm-... I
think I probably just went the odd time.... Yeah.... But I used to
when I was younger and we used to go from school. We were taught to
swim from school went to .... Yeah we went to -... And erm-... from
junior school.... Yeah-... But at grammar school there was no swimming
at all was there.... that was- that was quite- and . I- I went to a
few times. I lot of my youth I spent in the scouts and the sea scouts
based at from being about thirteen year old-... Mm.... up to it was
probably about twenty six when I packed it in altogether .... What we
used to do spend a load of time goin away camping and-... Oh yeah....
Yeah. But erm-... Well my grandad wouldn’t allow me to go in the
scouts. He didn’t believe in it.... Really?... Oh.... And grandad’s
word was gospel.... Mm.... He said it’s like Hitler youth.... Mm....
He thought it was an army for kids.... Mm.... But being he wanted to
be very, very English and tow the line. So Sundays we weren’t allowed
to play out. We were not forced but highly encouraged to go to
church.... Yeah.... So eventually I joined the church choir at about
the age of seven or eight. So that meant you soon got promotion cos
there weren’t many boys in the choir. I think there were four of us.
You soon got promotion to alter boy.... Yeah.... And then after
confirmation you had to go to the early morning mass. You took it in
turns at going to eight o’clock or nine o’clock. Then you were singing
at eleven o’clock mattins. You had to go to Sunday school at two
o’clock .... And then six thirty evensong.... Busy day .... So busy
day. So you didn’t have- really have time to play out on a Sunday....
Mm.... Yeah erm.... Well everybody went to Sunday school in those
days-... Yeah.... but it was- it was only once for me. There was no
choir cos it was a little mission church down in .... Ah. Well the-
the- the choir was the undoing of the church in many ways. Because we
got a little bit beyond our station. We started singing very high brow
stuff like-... Mm mm.... Handel’s Messiah and-... Mm.... we had to
have erm choral communion every first Sunday in the month.... And the
congregation got a bit fed up with it.... Oh ok.... Cause it wasn’t
the sort of stuff where you could join in the chorus even .... No no
no.... Yeah .... Yeah.... And the c- congregation dwindled until there
were more people in the choir than in the congregation.... Oh.... And
the erm th- the vicar wasn’t very dynamic and his wife was always a
little bit tipsy.... She used to come in and stagger down the aisle
half way-... half way through the service.... Mm.... Her hair all over
the place .... So they knocked it down. And erm the school still
remains school.... Mm.... You know where I mean? On one side on
the-... No.... .... Oh yeah.... Yeah the little school house there....
Yeah.... Erm that’s up for sale.... Mm.... Well the church was the
other side wasn’t it?... The church has gone.... Yeah... Yeah the
church was the other side of the school.... Yeah.... That’s been
flattened.... Mm.... My sister got married there. Erm I think she was
the last one ever to get married there. Erm-... Who ?... .... ....
Yeah.... Mm.... Yeah so I was an usher at that wedding and I was a
very poor student as well.... Oh .... And I couldn’t possibly have
worn me best suit cos it didn’t look very best at all.... So I went to
C and A and all I could afford was one that was five pounds fifteen
shillings.... It looked really smart and it lasted for the wedding.
And then about a week later I was out in the rain with it and it’s
like just falling apart.... It was. It was glued. It wasn’t
stitched.... Oh no.... So it was an expensive suit really considering
I only wore it twice-... before I had to throw it away.... Yeah....
erm-sed by omission due to recording problem... What sorry?... Can you
just count to three? Is that OK?... One two three.... Yep.... Well
Vivienne ,... yeah... we know where we went to school. No left
channel... We went to the same school.... We went to school.... it
was. Now did you ever get into trouble at school? Can you remember?...
I did get into trouble once, it was something to do with a bird....
Really?... And someb- I think the boy that got me into trouble,
somebody called who lived on .... mmhmm... But I can’t remember
exactly how it all came about.... But I know wasn’t very happy....
oh... Ah. Well I remember getting into trouble at that school and I
got the cane.... Oh I got the cane for it.... Did you?... Yes, yes....
I was late, I’ve never been late in my life, and I still hate being
late for anything.... Well I’m-.... And I dawdled on the way to school
and suddenly I realised that the doors were locked and I couldn’t get
in. And I had to stand waiting while they did the prayers.... How old
were you then?... Erm I was in the junior school, so possibly about
eleven. Ten or eleven. And I got the- this cane on my l- on my hand...
who gave you that? ?... and it was-... He was a bit handy with his
cane, wasn’t he?... And do you know it really hurt, it- and I was so
mortified that I had to stand there in the hall and be caned. Section
omitted due to recording problem... Difficult years to be a child
in.... Yes.... Erm wondering from one day to the next whether the
Germans would arrive on the doorstep.... Cos we had shelters didn’t
we?... We did at school, which we had to go into.... Yes.... And
practice for air-raids.... yes, air raids, mm... I got thumped in one
of those, I remember, very, very hard in the dark.... Really?...
Somebody thumped me, we never knew who it was. But er-.... Well you
wouldn’t in the dark, no... No .... But I quite enjoyed .... I did
actually. It was a church school.... Yes.... It was always a very good
school. But as far as favourite teacher goes erm-. Left channel
resumes... Was there one called ?... Yes.... I think she was a
favourite.... Yes possibly, she came from Irlam.... That’s right....
Mm, she did.... with the strap in the corner.... oh... She used to
frighten me to death. But she was a very, very good teacher. Was her
name ?... Right.... She used to play the piano.... I don’t remember
that name.... And if we didn’t sing- she taught us ‘Jerusalem’ and if
we didn’t sing it correctly, oh my word! She was very strict. No right
channel... right, right, I remember . Now she was extremely strict....
.... Very strict lady. She was a large lady and she was very, very
strict, everyone was frightened of her.... Well I think-.... As far as
your first day at school, that school- I actually, had been up in the
lake district cos I’d been evacuated erm to my aunt’s. And I do not
remember really my first day at school but I do remember at the
infants. And I do remember you and with your lovely dark black hair...
that was cut you know, with your fringes. I remember looking and
thinking, ‘ooh what lovely hair!’... I remember my first day. Cos I
was five when I went. Right channel resumes)... Right.... And I think
the teacher was called... oh... And I can picture the classroom....
And our younger than me, she cried because she wanted to come as well.
So she started as well, shortly afterwards. No right channel... Oh, oh
right.... Erm- but then our had appendicitis M did she... and she was
rushed to hospital.... Right.... And she missed quite a bit of
schooling because of it.... ooh, cos it was a big operation.... It was
in those days, yes. Cos they were frightened it might be
peritonitis.... Yes.... Because , my dad’s sister, she had died at
fourteen... oh right... with peritonitis. Erm and we always felt that
she never quite caught up, because she missed-.... So much.... The
grounding, you know, the basics. She’s alright now but that’s the way
we felt. Right channel resumes... mm, mm, summer holidays for me were
again, back in the Lake District.... yes, yeah... Erm I used to go on
**inc**.... We used to go on coach trips, Stratford upon Avon.... Yes,
yes... Erm I didn’t go to Scarborough. Erm, round Wales.... Right....
Me dad used to take us to New Brighton on the bus.... Oh right.... But
that’s as far as it went in those days, cos people didn’t go on
holiday, did they really?... mm, no they didn’t no. Well you couldn’t
because there was no seaside to go to, because it was mined, all the
beaches. I do remember going to Blackpool once.... Yes I remember
Blackpool.... And it was all barbed wire and you weren’t allowed on
the beach to play. Erm I presume it was all mined and you know,
waiting for an invasion.... mm, mm... So beaches were just you
know-.... A no go area.... No go areas yes. Yes.... But having said
that, I mean- our school days- we never went short. We were never
short of food or anything like that.... No, it wasn’t very good at
times.... We made the most of what we had, erm... Yes and I still hate
celery.... I’ve never really taken to celery.... raw celery, I hate,
but I love it in stews. I do actually like it.... Do you?... Yes, in
stews.... I eat it because puts it in... yes... but I can’t say that
it’s one of me favourite things.... Yes, no. But I think- I think it
was very difficult for our parents to feed- I mean, there were th-
three of us, ‘til was born.... mm... had my sister, in nineteen forty
four, so- it was hard to- everything was so rationed.... It was.... It
was dreadful, you queued for everything.... Everything.... you ate...
And sweets, when you think nowadays the shops are absolutely full of
them.... Yes, yes.... I suppose we were lucky that erm my aunties were
still at home and they gave us their sweet coupons.... Sweet coupons,
yes.... And we used to go to .... Oh yes, yes.... And er the main
thing we had were Barley sugars.... Oh gosh, really?... And
occasionally a treat, with a crunchie.... mm... But it was- that was
all you could get in those days.... mm... And then there was the
powdered egg,... powdered milk... Oh gosh that American powdered
egg.... Canned coffee, ooh.... We w- we were very lucky, we had erm-
my grandfather wrote to a lady in America who had been the fiancée of
an uncle.... Who died in the first world war.... mm, mm... And she
went out and married someone else. And went out to America and she
sent us food parcels, all the way through the war.... Oh that was
nice, yeah.... She was very religious and the church that she went to,
they collected for the English people.... Really?... And they used to
send us some wonderful things over.... yeah... Erm and it must’ve been
quite expensive to get it over in those days,... over in tho- yes...
they wouldn’t be flown over.... No, no.... It would’ve come by
boat.... It’d take weeks!... The only thing I hated was the
wintergreen sweets that they sent.... Oh I don’t remember those. I
never had those.... Oh they were dreadful, they were American,
wintergreen, and the chocolate was bad as well.... Urgh.... And I- I
never liked those.... Well even now I don’t think their chocolate is
as nice as ours.... I don’t, no.... Because and love Thorntons,... mm,
mm... in particular you know, the erm special toffee. And when me mum
used to visit erm in Chicago.... mm, mm... Take some decent cadburies
chocolates.... yes, yes, yes.... yes not as nice as hours.... But they
used to send- also, they collected clothes.... mm... Clothes that were
practically new. And I absolutely hated them. Because my mother cut
them down,... to fit me and they were American style sleeves.... yes
and you felt different.... And I was different at school in them. And
I absolutely hated them.... I don’t remember that Maureen . I don’t
remember.... And they were beautiful things, I’m sure.... Yes, yes,
mm... But they weren’t what I wanted. But there were no clothes.... I
know, well-.... Very difficult to get.... Cos I know when people got
married- I th- got married at the end of the war, and it wasn’t a
white outfit, it was sort of a two piece,... mm, mm... with a great
big hat.... Hats, mm.... She always wore a hat didn’t she?... mm, Well
I- I remember my mother making my eldest sister- half sister, erm,
wedding cake. That would be probably nineteen- was born in forty four,
so this would be forty five, I think.... mm... And my mum- my mother
had got all the cake mixture, black market cake mixture of course....
Yes, yes... Erm and she made this wedding cake and she took it out of
the oven and it fell into three pieces.... oh no... oh your poor
mum!... And she was absolutely horrified because she’d been a cook,
that was her- what she did as a young woman,... mm... and I think she
got the almond paste and stuck it together.... ‘gether .... Where the
cracks were. And iced over it and nobody knew any different....
knew... So that- but that stuck in my mind and yes, that’s amazing....
Yes, yes.... Erm but I used to- I did a lot of the queuing fo- for
food.... But we had to do, didn’t we?... Yes because my mother had
obviously had my sister in nineteen forty four... mm... and I used to
go and do all the-.... I did the er- most of the errands.... Did you
do it as well Vivienne ?... Yes... mm... .... Yes.... Cake shop...
yes... and we used to go to on the other side of the trinity. Erm-....
Mm, yes.... And everything you know was sort of weighed and very
precise.... Oh absolutely. When you watch these- I love the history
programmes... mm... and I do watch them and you know, what went on in
the war years. And they’re absolutely perfect because you know, they
are true footage.... I know.... Of what it was like and it makes you
think, ‘how did we ever survive?’... Well we did, didn’t we?... mm...
We never went short. Never went short.... No, we had probably just
about enough but er-.... Yes **inc** and yet it’s not done us any
harm, has it? When you think about it.... Well we’re still here at
seventy four and touch our toes, Vivienne .... I don’t know that I can
touch my toes.... mm, I can.... Can you?... Yes. Oh gosh yes.... Mind
you I’ve never tried but I’m sure I can’t.... No... I’m sure I can’t.
Oh dear.... yeah, yeah, well we’ve got our own teeth.... Oh I
haven’t.... Oh sorry... Well I have half, the bottom. But I had mine
out at twenty six.... Oh did you?... Because I had terrible teeth....
Oh right, right.... Look at her laughing!... I know... Terrible
teeth.... We’ve got our own hair colour!... Oh yeah and- well-....
Well yes!... With a bit of help... The hairdresser’s very helpful...
Absolutely. Erm, yes.... Erm you know and what else? Well I’ve got
contact lenses. I fool everyone cos I’ve got contact lenses.... Ooh no
I just- I couldn’t put those in, I couldn’t mess with my eyes.... Oh
gosh yes, yeah... I couldn’t.... I’ve had them about- oh I don’t know,
twenty five years, probably now.... Really?... mm, since I- I’m
more-.... I need my glasses for reading but I just couldn’t-... yes,
mm... if I had to wear them all the time, I’d have to wear them. Just
couldn’t put contact lenses in. does. But I couldn’t.... Erm, well my
grandson who’s eleven, well twelve tomorrow. He use- he has contact
lenses, .... Does he?... And what a difference it’s made to his life,
and I taught him how to do it.... Oh I’m sure. Really, yes.... Yes,
and erm I did explain it and I keep saying, you know, ‘you must wash
your hands, all the time!’... Ooh hands going near your eyes.... You
don’t want to get infected eyes. And I spent a long time- .... mm,
Explaining it to him.... Explaining how to do it, and do you know, he-
he was brilliant.... mm... And he’s so thrilled because he doesn’t
have to wear glasses any more.... yes.... mm... Yes, made a big
difference to him at school.... Because children generally don’t like
wearing glasses.... They’re quite cruel aren’t they? Some of them....
Oh they are yes. Yes that’s right.... But yes.... I mean on the whole
I think my school days were happy days.... Yes I’m sure mine were
really, yes.... But then after we parted company didn’t we?... We did
Vivienne you went to the grammar school.... I went to school.... And I
went to a technical col- commercial college.... mm, yes. And I suppose
I did sports at the grammar school.... And w- and- yes.... Erm hockey,
rounders, athletics.... Yes.... School choir. But I m- that’s a bit
like that now. All gone by the board.... No... I think they just had
netball at when I went there.... Did they? Well they had netball but
I-... mm... I think being on the short side, I wasn’t very good at
netball.... No, no.... I was better at hockey.... You are better when
you’re tall, yes.... And yet funny, my best friend, who was taller
than me, you know, .... Yes oh yes.... She was good at the high jump.
I did the long jump. She did netball, I did hockey. We just did
opposite things.... mm, mm, yes.... And I think that’s partly to do
with her being so much taller than me.... Taller, yes, yes.... mm...
mm... mm.... Now then. Funniest memories from when we were young....
And as far as brothers and sisters of course, I had- my father sadly
lost his first wife with consumption as they called it in those days.
Er in nineteen twenty nine or stroke thirty. Erm my sister was three.
And my brother was a baby, about six months old.... mm, mm... And my
father was working, because of all the problems with like today, jobs
that are difficult.... Yes.... And of course the twenties and thir-
well the twenties was very difficult. And he went to live in
Yorkshire. And-.... yeah- whereabouts in Yorkshire?... Well I can’t
just remember now, though I’m trying very hard to. There was a very
large erm- water supply, a big erm-.... Reservoir.... Yes and it f- I
think it fed Leeds I think, up there, but it’s beautiful up there. And
they had-.... Is it the reservoir that you see when you’re on the
M-sixty two? Going towards-.... No, no it isn’t.... no... Erm and I
have photographs of my father up a telegraph pole, cos he was
electrician.... Oh was he?... Wiring it all up. And they had houses as
well, and that- my sister took me about four or five years ago and the
foundations of the houses which were stone were still there. Just the
foundations,... mm... you could see where they were. Erm and the water
authority, it hadn’t been open actually to the public and they’d o-...
mm... they’d o- they’d only just opened this particular spot.... mm...
Erm and so it was quite you know, interesting to go.... Yes, yes....
And obviously my father’s been dead twenty years now. Erm but-.... Do
you know I thought it would’ve been more than that, Maureen .... My
father?... Mm.... Erm, well my mother- father twen-... mother twenty
and my father twenty two I think.... Really? Mm.... And then what
happened, she got this consumption living there. Sadly and had to go
to er a sanatorium. And he took his two children back to Windermere
where he came from.... mm... And his mother looked after them....
Looked after them, brought them up.... And that’s how he met my
mother... mm... there. Erm, so it was quite- really quite sad.... Sad
yes yeah.... Yeah for him erm-.... Well I can still picture your
mother and father, you know- big weren’t they?... Mm, yeah they were.
Yes.... Tall, and I know when I used to go shopping in Peel Green to
the butchers and your mum would be walking along, and I’d say, ‘how’s
Maureen ? Another little girl!’... another little girl, Yes....
Another little girl, one two three four.... Yes, mhmm.... Oh yes. But
then you see, what happened with- with grandchildren. Six
grandsons.... yeah... yes... And three granddaughters.... mm, mm...
And five boys, one after the other. We didn’t have any girls at
all.... Yes that’s right. Funny that.... Mm. But erm-.... Just I do
remember when we used to go to church and you were in the choir, like
was in the choir.... mm, mm... And used to go to , Christmas Eve,
carol singing.... mm, really mm.... And your Mum, I remember one year
in particular your mum gave us all erm hot chocolate before we
went.... ahh... Did she really Vivienne ?... yes one Christmas eve....
Ooh you can remember things better than me.... Yeah, she gave us erm
hot chocolate before we all set off for church.... Oh really....
yeah.... Gosh, mm... Happy days those, really.... Oh, yes, that’s- it
is, probably were, yes.... But you and -.... But you never got much
for Christmas, I certainly didn’t. There were just no toys at all....
Well you couldn’t- I think.... in the forties... The one thing I
remember getting at Christmas was a very nice- and it was off a friend
of my mum and dad’s.... A pencil box with a- that’s erm roller top....
Oh I know. Yeah.... But, you know, you come down Christmas day, and
your presents would be on the table. There’d be mine, and .... Mm....
Because that was it, wasn’t it,... mm... mm... and a bit of fruit?...
mm... Whatever- you know.... That’s right and a few nuts. You alw- I
had a pillowcase, always had a pillowcase and there was nuts in the
bottom, a tangerine and an apple.... mm, oh a tangerine. Yes.... And
erm they were- I don’t know that it was quite exciting to have those
at the very bottom.... Mm.... But I used to be so upset when there was
nothing left in it at all.... And wishing there were more things, but
there were no books Vivienne... no... and I never had a doll for- I
never played with dolls.... I- I wasn’t a doll person, I did have one
and I didn’t like it.... mm, well my mother-.... I did have a nice
doll’s pram.... Yes.... And bicycle that me granddad bought.... vv...
But it wasn’t at Christmas, it was sort of later on.... Yes.... When
you could afford it.... exactly. Yes, yes.... You know cos they
worked- worked hard.... Well I do remember a book that I was bought.
Two books- one was ‘The prisoner of Zenda’ and ‘Rupert of Hensor.’...
Oh I don’t remember that but I remember the first one.... And they
were hideous books, they were far too old for me.... I was just
thinking that.... And I c- I don’t really think I ever read them
really.... No.... but there were no children’s books. But from the
post office, her parents could always find Rupert books.... Could
they?... Mm, she always had the annuals for Rupert. And I was lucky,
because she used to lend them to me.... Yes, yes... You know, and so I
could read them. But I never had any books. And my mother, desperate
to get me a doll she went to the doll’s hospital in Manchester.... Oh
I remember the doll’s hospital.... And you remember that Vivienne ....
Mm.... Bought two heads and sewed them on this- these bodies she’d
made.... mm... And I had- I always had a black doll.... mm... I
absolutely loved black dolls,... mm... mm... more than white dolls.
Cos I just had this attraction f- for black dolls. And she got me a
black and a white one. And I went to see my friend at the time....
She’s a mutual friend, .... oh, okay... Yeah.... We went to school
with her, didn’t we?... Yes, yeah. And dropped one of my dolls... and
the head smashed into pieces.... no... And I was so horrified I lifted
my arms up and dropped mine. So I had no dolls.... none at all... So
both the heads had gone.... Oh what a shame and your mum had gone to
all that trouble.... mm, yes, yes. Yeah, she w- she wasn’t- wasn’t
particularly good at sewing. But erm, she went to quite a bit of
trouble to try and make up for what wasn’t there.... Something- What
we couldn’t have.... What we didn’t have, exactly.... Yes.... But my
sister arriving in forty four. Everything went to her.... Er the- I- I
could not remember what a banana looked like. I hadn’t ever had one,
you see,... mm... that I could remember.... I can’t remember when I
was little, no. Because I was three in thirty nine. So when the
bananas came, erm-.... Now I don’t know how many there were, whether
there was only one, but my father- it had to be that had the
banana.... mm... I remember looking at this and thinking, ‘I wonder
what it really does taste like?’... really does taste like.... And I
didn’t find out, and I wonder why they did that in those days.... They
could’ve given you half each.... Could’ve given us half each,... mm...
yes... yes they could actually. Erm so everything went to . Erm but it
never affected me in any way.... Never bothered you, no I mean-.... I
was never jealous.... I was the first grandchild, spoilt. And then
there was and then was the first grandson. And he was spoilt.... mm,
mm, mm... But because I suppose my nanna and granddad- granddad in
particular with I was- me nanna was for me.... Me mum and dad tried to
make it up to . They gave her more.... mm, yes, yeah.... Like I went
to the grammar school, went to the grammar school, so erm- made sure
that went to .... Oh right, yes... And got a city and guilds in
erm-.... yes, catering, wasn’t it?... catering, yes.... yes, yeah...
And then of course, and... yes... came along later on.... Yes, a lot
later.... yes... But my grandparents lived in , as you know, and my
grandmother would give my half brother half a crow, which was quite a
bit of money.... Ooh a lot of money in those days.... And I was given
sixpence.... I never had what he had. Because he was the son,... son,
mm... you know, the grandson. And apparently my father used to get so
upset about it and so annoyed, he’d take me home and give me half a
crown.... mm, crown as well.... ahh, **inc**... Yes. Just to make it
up.... mm, cos we used to joke, you know me mum made a lot of our
clothes for and I.... Yes, yeah... And of course we’d say- course our
’s came from Kendal Mills... Yes, yeah. They were like that with
sons.... But erm- yes, yes.... For some reason and we’ve got far more
equality today.... mm... And you don’t treat your children any
different at whatever age.... No, me mum and dad didn’t really,
erm.... No.... Erm, because er- we’ve got a photograph of the three of
us and a friend of had knitted these fair-isle cardigans in two
ply.... mm, gosh.... and I had cardigans, had erm- I think it was a
v-neck sweater.... mm, mm... And me mum made sure that the three of us
had the same.... Yes. Yes, quality, mm, yeah.... Yes, yeah. Tried to
treat us all the same.... mm... But erm- now then, what did I help out
in the house a lot? Well I had to do.... yes I’m sure I did, I’m sure
we had to really.... Yes.... Didn’t we?... mm... Erm washing up was
always a pain, cos nobody wanted to dry.... no... It’s strange nobody
likes drying isn’t it?... No, no, nobody wanted to dry. So we used to
argue, the three of us, cos was too young.... mm... Erm and they used
to- did they have no washing up liquid Vivienne ?... Oh I don’t
remember washing up-.... It was Persil.... Persil, no washing up
liq-... We used to put washing powder in... really... and wash the
pots in washing powder.... I don’t remember washing up liquid....
No.... At all.... Oh they didn’t have it, no, no, and my mother-....
But when you think no washing up liquid, no washing machine, or things
like that.... No- no they boiled everything, didn’t they, in a
boiler,... mm... but I do remember my mother grating fairy soap, white
blocks- sorry green blocks of fairy soap.... Green blocks of fairy
soap.... And she would grate it into the dolly tub.... Yes.... Er with
boiling water so it melted,... yeah... an- and became-... so it would
clean the clothes properly.... mm, and then they-... And they always
washed on a Monday.... And ironed on a tuesday.... Yes, yes. If they
got it dry.... Yes, routine, routine... mm, was routine. And we had a
cellar, where my mother had clothes lines.... We had cellars.... And
she used to hang her clothes... mm... in the cellar to dry. And we did
have a very old coke burner down there for when the sirens went and
there was bombing.... Oh the sirens yes.... yeah and- and erm, my
grandfather had gone to the railways and he was a joiner, when he was
younger and lived in the Lake District. But he came down to live with
us and erm he went and got all these- erm, this- these pieces of wood
from the railway that- sleepers.... mm... And he propped the whole of
the ceiling of the cellar up in case we had an air-raid or a bomb-...
yes we had our own sort of shelter at four-two-seven.... yes... At
six-six-three you used to go down in the cellar.... yes... But erm I
remember my nan, my nanna and heard the sirens. Went down into the
cellar. came home from work to find them in the cellar. ‘What you
doing in the cellar?’ ‘Well you know, the sirens went.’ They’d gone
down for the all-clear, hadn’t they?... oh... and they’d been there
all morning.... marvellous, oh.... Oh dear.... oh... Little things
like that stick in your mind, don’t they?... Oh where were your- where
are you parents from, well mine are from the Lake District. Both
living in Windemere. Er back-to-back and never knew each other....
real-... Because my father was four years older than my mother. But
they didn’t find out until of course they met up, after his first wife
died.... mm... And my- my mother was engaged to erm a- a man who went
out to Canada and lost all his money on the crash-... Wall Street
crash.... crash.... And said, ‘well I’ve got to start again, I’ll send
for you,’... mm... and she said, ‘don’t bother I’m not waiting.’...
And meanwhile her best friend who was my father’s cousin, girl. Erm
just asked her if she’d like to co- go out, as a foursome because...
mm... my father had lost his wife... yeah... and she wanted to cheer
him up and that’s how I become-... mm... th- that’s how I ended up
sitting here talking today.... .... yes... If they’d never got
together I wouldn’t be here.... Well it’s true isn’t it?... yes....
You know.... Yes oh life is strange isn’t it? Mm... It is, because
always wanted- he did his national service and always wanted to stay
in the army.... Oh did he?... Yes he loved it. Absolutely loved it....
Oh so why didn’t he?... Because his mother and father said, ‘if you
stay in the army, that’s it you’ve no mother and father.’... You’re
joking!... No erm-.... What was the reason?... Because- well they
thought it was erm a reflection on them that he wanted to be away from
home.... Oh.... But they never really got on, he got on better with
his father than his mother,... mm... but then his father would say,
‘well if you’d stayed in the forces, you would never have met Vivienne
.’... mm... mm... And he said, ‘well I’m sure we would have done,’...
mm... ‘because we were meant to be together.’... mm... So it’s funny
how things work out, isn’t it?... Yes. Yes, was he an only one?... Oh
yes.... Oh... oh yes.... With a terrible mother.... really?...
Really?... Oh she was- .... Possessive? Controlling?... Yes and yet
she was in a way possessive, and yet she hadn’t got a lot of time for
him. So I could never weigh it all up. Nothing ever made sense....
mm... Erm and his father was away a lot on business. You know and if
he did anything wrong, ‘wait ‘til your father comes home!’... mm...
And one incident, he’d been smoking when he was about ten or eleven,
with a friend. Friend had a- parents had a pub and they went on the
flat roof and he was so ill. And of course his mother, ‘wait ‘til your
father comes home!’ and then when his father came home told him,
‘aren’t you going to give him a good hiding?’ So he said, ‘he’s learnt
his lesson.’... Mm.... mm... yeah... And he never really smoked
cigarettes again. Occasionally,... mmhmm... if lit up he’d say, ‘ooh I
just fancy one,’ and he’d have one.... mm... But he never went out and
bought a packet of cigarettes.... Mm, my parents didn’t smoke. But my
brother did, me half-brother did. And my half sister.... mm, no me dad
smoked but me mum couldn’t stand it.... No, no.... Couldn’t stand it.
I’ve never smoked.... No, no I haven’t.... has smoked but gave it up
some years ago.... mmhmm... Erm has the odd one, more a social-...
mm... doesn’t sit at home smoking.... mm... doesn’t smoke, doesn’t
smoke.... No.... Erm-.... mm, and actually my parents were tee-
total.... Were they?... Until my father got to eighty and then he used
to have his brandy in a morning, to keep his heart going he used to
say.... Well they used to say a drop of whiskey at night is good for
you.... Well yes, they did. Yes, yes, but erm... That’s my excuse if I
have one.... It’s good for me!... Oh but erm,... cos you read all
these things in the paper,... yes, yes... you know and glass of red
wine.... Well it’s beer today, apparently.... I know that was in the
paper the other day.... Giving- yeah keeping your heart going....
Don’t like beer.... I think I’ll do without, mm, mm... Don’t like beer
at all. No.... What are local people like? The people where I live-
well they’re all very nice really, it’s quite quiet, but it’s a- it’s
such a good area, I mean the house is up for sale, I can’t imagine why
nobody buys it.... mm... Because it’s such a super spot to be,...
mm... you’ve got the railway, you’ve got-.... mm, everything’s to hand
isn’t it, yes... Everything’s at hand, you’ve got sports centres,
you’ve got swimming pools, golf courses.... mm... You can get into
Manchester so quickly, and you can get onto the M- sixty- sixty two,
sixty-one, fifty six, in ten minutes.... mm, I think you’re better
placed than I am, in Irlam,... yes... because the buses are about-
they’re supposed to be every ten minutes but they’re not... mm... and
there’s only really one into Manchester.... mm... And there’s another
one that goes through Manchester into the Trafford centre, or the
Trafford centre into Manchester. And they’re about the only two....
Yes and the- the thing about the Trafford centre is- it- I didn’t like
it when it was first built,... mm... I thought it would kill off all
the sho- local shops, which it did.... mm... But I do enjoy going and
I go at least twice a week.... mm... And I don’t particularly buy erm,
but I c-... if I want to, everything’s there.... You can, yeah,
yeah... I’ll just go because it’s very nice inside and you can have a
nice coffee and a cake on a morning.... In John Lewis, yes, mm... Yes.
And er- and I do quite enjoy going and it’s just so quick to get there
and to park and-.... It is, it’s no problem.... It’s just no problem,
so that’s a great advantage to this area to me.... mm... yes... I’ve
never been into Manchester for years and I don’t think I ever will
really. I’ve got- There’s nothing there for me.... Well I go into
Manchester erm, normally every Thursday to meet two friends I used to
work with many years ago at ICI.... Oh right. Yes, yes... And then I
meet another friend every other week on a Wednesday,... mm, right...
that I used to work with at ICI.... mmhmm... So but normally I park in
Marks and Spencers and then on a Thursday have lunch in Marks, just a
sandwich. One friend moans the whole of the time... mm, mm... about
the quality and the standard and the noise, cos it is noisy in Marks
and Spencers.... mm... Oh right.... Now if that particular friend
doesn’t come, er and I will go to ,... mm... which is erm an Austrian
patisserie.... ooh... Ooh you should see the cakes!... Mm, very
nice.... Oh lovely. Erm then when I go with we go to the . Where you
can have a three course lunch for six pounds fifty.... ahh... That’s
good.... Yeah.... mm... And I might walk through the Arndale centre...
mm... erm, couple of times recently I have had a bit of a walk round
the Arndale but I’ve been looking for specific shops.... mm... And
there everything seems that little bit bigger... mm... than in the
Trafford centre.... Trafford centre, yes.... And on Sunday, and I and
we’d taken back to w- erm the station, erm we went into... the Arndale
and I think- I can’t remember what we were looking for. But I was
surprised, it was a Sunday and I was able to park in Marks and
Spencers car park.... Oh right.... It’s not cheap, parking in-...
mm... and it does add-... mm... it adds to me lunch when I go. I used
to go on the bus.... mm, yes.... But you get on the bus and then
there’s these girls that get on with their buggies,... mm, mm... mm...
dripping in cheap jewellery,... not a ring in sight, and oh. If
smoking was allowed they’d be smoking.... mm.... mm... I’m not a
snob... no... but you know, you do have certain standards don’t
you?... I think it’s the way we were brought up Maureen , respect....
Probably.... In those days.... Yeah. Yes probably.... You respected
your teachers and-... mm... and we went to church and Sunday school,
didn’t we?... Yes we did. We certainly did.... And then the pictures
after church on a Sunday night sometimes, the Palladium.... Terribly
naughty.... When you think about it.... mm, yes we used to go on to
the pictures after we’d been to church.... mm. And we’d done our duty,
hadn’t we?... we’d been to church.... Well, definitely! Yes those were
the days.... Happy days.... But I think, I remember it being more
difficult for food, clothes and everything else after nineteen forty
five. Because that’s when it was really difficult, when they put bread
on rationing. That was awful.... Yes because rationing went on for
quite some time, didn’t it?... It went to about fifty two I think....
Yes it went on for some time.... But it went worse- I don’t think we
probably got the help from America that we’d had during the war.... Or
thought we were going to get.... Yes.... That’s right.... yeah I think
so, mm.... Because there was the air base in Warrington wasn’t there?
Burtonwood... Yes. The Americans, mm.... erm and I know a friend of my
auntie’s went out with one of the airmen... mm... and er- he used to
take to erm , girlfriend, loads of sweets and things.... Yeah....
mm... So you know we had sweets.... Yes.... in that way.... Yes....
But it was a long time before things were really back to normal....
Anything like- well, above- above the counter.... That’s right... And
on show, everything was under the counter.... yeah.... Nothing was on
show. No food was on show.... And I know we had a chicken nearly ever
week and it was a friend of my granddad’s and me dad’s, used to get
these live chickens... mm... and they were in Pendleton, and I had to
go on the bus and bring back this chicken.... Dead chicken, was it
plucked?... Alive Maureen !... Oh you didn’t!... I did.... And I’d no
choice, I had to do it.... How did you carry it?... It used to be in a
bag, and... I’d be sitting on the bus, terrified in case it made a
noise.... Our would say that he did it, but if he did it, I don’t
remember. It was me, because I was the eldest.... He might have come
on the odd occasion to keep me company.... mm... But in the main, it
was me. So we always had-.... Can I ask you,... chicken... did you eat
any of it when you got home?... Oh once me mum had killed it and
cleaned it and everything.... And prepared it, oh... And it- mainly
boiling **inc**.... yes, yes... And she used to make beautiful chicken
soup.... yes... And erm our always had the best of the chicken. And me
mum would hide it under his rice, so that and I couldn’t see it....
Really? Oh that’s not right at all is it?... But that’s how it was, he
got the best.... It was, yes, he did.... And er- I mean we laugh about
it,... mm... and the thing is, although we know that he was in a way
favoured, it never, has never-... Any animosity between you.... No....
mm... mm... There’s never been any jealousy among us.... no....
Between the five of us, at all really.... mm, mm, my mother lived on a
farm, erm, and my grandfather was a bailiff.... Oh yes.... Which was-
it- you know he- he rented and he worked for the farmer and it was in
Warrington, cos he came down all the way from the Lake District, how
they got down I’ve no idea.... No, no motorways.... But they always-
no and they were on this farm called , which is still there in- in
Warrington, Daresbury actually.... Yeah mm.... And my mother went to
school at Daresbury village. And erm she said that my father- my
grandfather always had- if they had an egg, they only got the top off
the egg,... and gra- and her father got the whole egg.... Cos he was
the working- he was working.... Yes, yes.... and he was providing....
mm, mm... And she said there was ce-... there were- there were lots of
vegetables, and she said, ‘he never took anything that wasn’t his’....
no... And she said, ‘we could’ve lived really well if he’d just- taken
a few of these veggies and brought them home.’... Yeah, vegetables,
mm... But he never did. Never took anything that wasn’t theirs they
were so honest.... Wasn’t theirs.... Mm, then they went back of
course, went back to erm-.... The Lake District.... Yes went back to
Ulverston, mm... mm, I was looking at the Lake District on the telly
the other night, erm- did you watch it?... Yes, yes I did actually,
I’d seen it before.... Yes, I’ve seen it before but I watched it
again.... Yes, yes... Erm and I thought, ‘oh we did have some nice
little **inc** breaks up in the lake district.’... Yes. My cousin that
still lives there, erm her grandson is erm- well his girlfriend, who
lives on , which is the island that nobody’s- it’s private.... mmhmm,
yes, in the middle bit... Erm-.... I’ve often wondered if anybody
lived there.... yes, it’s a beautiful house... Is it, mm, mm... It’s
the that have got that. The people who had the insurance company,
insurance company.... mm, oh... And they bought the island and they
live there. And this is their daughter. And she swam the English
channel about two weeks ago.... Did she?... For charity, yes.... She’s
a st- I think she’s a student now, I- I th- - I’m not sure whether-
she’s got two grandsons, and I’m not sure whether this particular
grandson is the one that’s living locally in Manchester,... oh... come
down from the Lake District erm cos there are two of them and I do get
them confused and they’re both at university, or one has finished....
mm, mm, yes, yeah.... But this girlfriend, yeah she swam the English
channel. Yes.... swam the channel.... Cos she- she let me know the
other week about it, yeah.... mm, what about hat older lady swimming
it? And kept going off course?... I know... Oh did she, I’ve no- I
didn’t see that.... Yeah and I’ve forgot- I’ve forgotten how long it
took her,... ooh... but she did it. But it took her hours and
hours.... The English Channel?... Hours and hours and hours.... You’ve
got the jellyfish problem with the English Channel.... I know....
haven’t you, really? Mm,... yeah... Oh gosh.... No it was nice,
watching the Lake District, yes... Yes very beautiful if it’s not
raining.... Ooh, the very first time we went on the Friday afternoon,
it was raining so hard.... mm... ‘Oh what have we done, why have we
come?’ But then Saturday and Sunday it was glorious.... mm, mm,
beautiful, mm... Absolutely.... Mm, they’ve had very bad weather this
last winter.... Mm with the snow and everything.... Yes a lot of- yes,
yeah and rain.... I mean that’s why I can’t understand the reservoirs
being so low.... No but... When we’ve had so much snow.... My cousin,
when she was telling me about these- this er grandson’s girlfriend.
Erm she said, ‘oh you wouldn’t believe how low they are.’ She said,
‘we’ve been out and we’ve been looking and they’re extremely low.’
mm... I know when we used to drive over to Harrogate erm on the
M-sixty- two, we always looked at one reservoir, Time... mm... ‘oh
it’s a bit low this y- this week.’... mm... Do you know the one I
mean?... Yeah, yeah I go that way.... Yes and er we’d be sort of, ‘oh
there’s going to be a water shortage.’... mm... mm... mm... our had to
defy the hosepipe ban before.... He what, sorry?... Had to defy the
hosepipe ban. Because our got all dog’s poo on his shoes.... oh, oh...
And so he had to swill them down.... Did he? I hope this is not being
used in evidence against him... for a thousand pounds.... I never
thought about that... Oh dear.... Confessions.... Confessions, yes....
mm, well I mean, I use my hosepipe to fill my watering can and my gra-
my son-in-law said, ‘you can’t do that it’s illegal.’ I said,
‘rubbish. It can’t be illegal.’ But I’ll tell you one thing. This
hosepipe ban is so ridiculous cos you waste more money- sorry more
water.... More water.... In a watering can.... yeah... Well I think
so, Maureen too.... Because you’re being- it’s pouring out and...
yes... and if it was coming out as a spray... a spray... and a shower,
it would go into the flowers and everything quicker.... Yes, yeah...
But it’s just going over the tops and- and going on the- one the road.
On the pavements.... I think it’s worse.... mm... I think it’s
silly.... Mm, I do. Yes, but still.... I can understand them saying
the hosepipe ban for washing cars at home.... Well at home but what
about these-... but you can still-... can you still take them to
the-?... Oh yes you can still take them to these places.... yeah...
Places to have them cleaned. Oh right, right. I didn’t realise
that.... I mean the gardeners that I have, said that he’d looked it up
on the erm internet... mmhmm... and it was so complicated, what you
could, what you couldn’t do,... oh yes, yes,... that in the end, he
gave up.... mm.... United utilities saying one thing, somebody else
saying something else, and he thought, ‘just don’t get it.’... mmhmm,
mm, no. Well my- I’ve got one hanging basket, beautiful... mm...
because it’s rained on it and the other one is slightly under the
porch... mm... at the front door and it’s dead.... ahh... And never
bothered watering it. So I’ve had to get it down and just let the tap
run on it,... mm... so that’s wasted a lot of water.... Yeah, yeah,
yeah.... Today, whether it will revive, I don’t think it will.... mm,
c- It will, it will cos they said to me on Tuesday, I said, ‘I know
what you’re going to say,’ I said, ‘well you see it has rained so I
thought to myself ‘I don’t need to water them,’... mm... ooh... But
you still need to water them, so-.... Oh gosh you do because it
doesn’t get through.... no... It only stays on the top.... yes... Hmm,
how are we doing?porarily. This is marked within the transcription. difficult to hear
during this time... one, two, three, four, five... Nadine... one, two,
three... four, five... okay... why is your sister well mad?... cos you
know the way she went... yeah... to- from the petrol station...
yeah... do you know who lives there?... no... oh, okay... oh never
mind now... you’re so awkward, and-... thanks it’s innit... yeah...
that’s why I didn’t wanna... oh... go down... so d- that’s weird, why
did she drive past his house then?... I think she wanted to be nosey,
to be honest... have a quick look... quick look, see what he’s going
on... I can’t believe she w- that’s what she wears to the gym...
they’re my shorts... do you know the ones that I wore under my fancy
dress stuff... they’re my shorts... which fancy dress stuff?... like,
the ones that I just wear under any fancy dress stuff, like, whatever
I need yeah, so she wears that- that’s why she loves the free tops,...
that’s why she wanted a free top from wherever... from ?... yeah
that’d’ve been cool, she’s obsessed, weirdo, I can’t believe you
didn’t go the gym... sorry, I thought she would’ve woken me up if we
were gonna go to the gym... I thought you did actually wake you up...
she woke me up and asked me for her- your Mum’s number... why would
y-... I don’t even know, and I was like, ‘no, I don’t have it’, and
then she’s like-... yeah, you do... I know, but then I realised I did,
I was like, ‘there you go’, and then I went back to sleep... why did
she want my Mum’s number?... plus, I couldn’t’ve even gone to the gym,
I had my boots with me and I had nothing... I told you, sister’s got
shoes, she would’ve found something to fit you... well, if she wanted
to go that badly, I would’ve gone with her, but... and now she’s going
on an empty stomach... with a bit of lamb in her... eurgh, that lamb
wasn’t as good this morning smelling, I microwaved it... it’s well
fatty in the morning though... yeah... she’ll be having lunch again...
today?... tonight, yeah... lunch,... lamb... yeah, yeah, lunch, it’s
called Sunday lunch isn’t it... it’s that lamb that we had last time
**inc** so we have to cook it... the lamb chops? The one that mush-
the onio-... lamb steak thing... yeah... yeah, the one... the one...
one where the onions were too chunky... yeah... and, what- I dunno
what else you complained about, but, yeah, all that stuff... I only
complained about the onions... no, you complained about something else
as well... no, it wasn’t the mushrooms- I don’t even know what we had
I can’t remember now... we had ratatouille... oh aye, you just-... and
erm,... stood there... potatoes and lamb sweet potato thingy,
thingy... yeah, yeah, yeah, that we spent all- most of the afternoon
making and then you just-... and the rice pudding... mmm, rice
pudding, mmm... bit of that,... bit of that we should... d- do you
think really made at me?... why?... it sounded like she was, you
know... when-... when I- when I said about her being married and she
was like, ‘yeah’, cos seeing someone... three times a week is like
being married, but I was like, ‘oh, shh’... well how often does she
wanna see her?... **inc** I dunno... I think we should go round and
see this week... what, and keep him company? cos he’ll be dying
without her... mm well what else is- I swear to God he most probably
the boringest person this week anyway you got an eyelash... thanks...
no probs... **inc**... sh- she won’t be, sh- she’ll just be winding
you up, I think if she’s that mad she would’ve text you... yeah,
probably... I swear they see each other, they see each other twice at
the weekends so... she’s always down there... standing isn’t it...
innit... is yeah man... don’t know what to say... okay what’s your
least fav-... so why’s coming round anyway?... wait, no... why is
coming round, coming round because he’s cutting his cousin’s hair, the
one that’s like got something wrong with her... and like, she can’t
do-... something wrong with her?... yeah, she’s got this like, I don’t
know if it’s a disease, as such... but it’s one of those things where
you cons- like, she’s constantly tired, like, she’ll get up for like
an hour, and then she’ll need to go back to bed and she can’t do her
last year of Uni or something... how does she cope?... because of
it... doing anything... well, she doesn’t, she was meant to come and
get her hair cut yesterday, and then she had to rearrange for three
o’clock today,... I think she’s been sleeping since yesterday, ‘til
today so she can **inc**... there was a programme on TV about that,
about sleeping beauty, and she sleeps like three weeks and she missed
all her GCSE re- exams and then she woke up for her prom, and like
there’s nothing you can do, there’s nothing you can take, yeah it was
on BBC iPlayer... yeah, eventually it’s just meant to like, wear off
or something, but, she’s dead weird anyway she’s like a d-... you
think everyone’s weird... no, she’s like a dead bohemian weirdo... a
what?... bohemian... like a... like a hippy... **inc**... she used to
have big hair, like, that she just didn’t wash and just back-combed...
oh my... and it was like blonde, and it was like, out like this... bit
like Amy Winehouse... it’s- it’s-... yeah, so anyway, carry on,...
well that’s what- and then, oh yeah, so erm, he’s left all his kit bag
here from when he did my Mum’s hair on Saturday... oh right... cause
he decided to go out, so... why doesn’t your Mum like her hair, I like
it... no, she likes it now, she came back from the hairdressers, and
she was like, ‘there’s too much blonde in it’... I can’t believe you
told her... I can, erm... I can’t... she was like, ‘there’s too much
blonde in it’, but I said to her, ‘ooh, I don’t know if I like it
there’s quite a lot of blonde in it’ then she hated it, then she was
like, ‘there’s too much blonde in it’ she was like, ‘will you get to
put some’-... she’s only got in her fringe and... yeah, no, but she
had like twice the amount of that blonde, all like here, just there,
none at the back... so has done it again?... just put a semi permanent
dye on some of the blonde bits, to dye them the brown colour... oh
my... but... yeah, it looks nice now, so... what’s her natural
colour?... grey... it’s not... she’s not that old... if she grew her
hair out it would be grey... it’s not that old... her hair all grows
through grey... nah... yeah it does... no, she’s not as old as my
Mum... her natural colour’s like as dark as mine though, there’s a
picture, erm, of her and all her sisters-... yeah, but that’s not your
natural hair colour... no, but my natural hair colour- but erm,
there’s a picture of her and all her sisters, like, together, and my
Aun- my Grandma had this thing, that if you were a child and you had
short hair, you’d have lovely hair when you, erm, old, she’s- when
you’re older, like, and she’s Irish and she’s a weirdo, so that’s what
she thought she was like, ‘ooh, you’ll have beautiful hair’... when it
grows, so erm, they all had a mushroom haircut, apart from my , cos
she had curly hair-... **inc**... what’s a mushroom haircut?... like,
when it’s like that... oh, I know, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah... so
did I when I was like five though... so there’s these pictures of-...
oh yeah, the pictures-... there’s these pictures when erm, my Mum and
like all her sisters are kids, in black and white pictures, all in
dresses, one with curly hair, the rest all with mushroom hair cuts, my
cousin walks past going, ‘why’s in a black and white picture in a
dress?’... so... joke... yeah, it’s the same colour as mine though,
actually,... yeah, I can’t believe y-your Mum’s hair grows grey,
you’re winding me up about that... it does... no, it doesn’t... it
does, that’s why she has to have blonde in her hair... no, she
doesn’t, she’s not as old as my Mum... how old’s your Mum?... f- forty
eight... my Mum’s forty seven... I think that’s how old my Mum- I
dunno- dunno I don’t do Maths... why have you drawn a tee-shirt with
‘wet’ written on in it... cause you’re the song from ‘Wet’ Nico-...
Nicola... yeah, that’s the one... it’s from that... oh, it’s a bit
windy... do you want me to shut the door? okay... thanks... anyway...
anyway... so what- yeah, so... describe your least favourite
teacher... which from?... your least favourite one... from college?...
yeah, if you want from college from college... it’s gotta be... ?...
no the one that we-... oh,... yeah, the one we had from kitchen last
year... he came into my work the other day... no... walked in, I was
setting-... gutting, gutting... I was setting all the tables up, and I
went into the harness room and looked, and one of the chefs is like,
sat down like, writing stuff, and then I’m looking and it’s bloody ,
I’m like, ‘oh my God, what is he doing here’... no... but then I
realised, doing an-... who’s ?... he’s one of the chefs, but he’s
doing an apprenticeship with and he had - erm, no, he had... oooh...
and he had, erm, whats-his-name grey hair he had and... ahh, ace...
erm, for like his lessons, but then comes every month and asks him
like, what’s he’s done and he has to do all this different cooking
stuff and he’s like, ‘have you done that?’, and like, ‘no’, and he’s
like, ‘oh, I’ll just sign it off anyway’... he- he has got to be the
worst teacher... so then he- he comes up to me and he’s like, ‘so how-
is this where you’ve been hanging out?’... **inc**, ‘have you handed
all your work in?’, and I was like, ‘yes’, erm, and I was like what
was he going on about? he was talking about some rubbish-... ah, do
you know that came into our thingy when we had ?... yeah... he came
back to thingy and we swear he’s like got the sack cos he’s always in
work now... what, he’s working with you again?... no he’s still like
**inc**, but yeah... so why do you hate ?... cause he’s just knob...
giving all them sheets in the last week of college, swear to God
didn’t need it... **inc**... mm... didn’t need it did we... no...
but-... no, because technically he should’ve gave that sheet to us,
evaluation sheet each week we had him... well, he didn’t though did
he... he’s just a knobhead... well, I told you he was **inc**-... I’ll
always remember- whenever I think about I’ll always think of that time
when he was writing on the board... excuse me, sorry... was writing on
the board and th- the higher and higher he goes... ahh, the arse...
the top-... tops coming out and you can just see more and more of his
arse, everyone’s like, ‘urgh’... oh my God... and it’s like, ‘, why
are you looking?’... , I wonder what she got, bet she got treble
distinction... do you think? Yeah, probably... mm should find her on-
in facebook... oh God... but actu-... but yeah, why who’s yours?...
erm... I didn’t really- well yeah, probably from college... mmm,
alright, was sound... was weird sometimes though, don’t you think?
like, she’d go in a mood over like stupid things... yeah, but she had
problems at home Alan , don’t be tight... yeah, but she **inc**... her
best mate was like dying of cancer... yeah, but she did often go in
moods and stuff... mm... if you said stuff or-... she never went in a
mood with me, she did go in a mood in a restaurant though when we...
yeah she always seemed to take things too personal, as well sometimes
but my wor-... mm... my actual worst teacher I think about when it-
it’s gotta be from school when- she’s from and she’s got like the
strongest accent ever, erm, she had a baby, and she was like- we were
like, ‘what’ve you called your baby?’ and she’s like, ‘’ , ‘oh,
great’, and then erm, she got married and then we weren’t sure if her
name,... because she couldn’t say ‘haitches', we weren’t sure if her
name was or for like a year... why couldn’t she say ‘haitches’?...
cause she was that common... sounding she used to call all time-... on
away- he’s away... she used to speak to , and erm, she’d call him and
sh- he’d be like, ‘’ all the time and she’d- I think she used to do it
on purpose, say words with ‘haitches’... mmhmm... and she used to go,
‘do you want a chuffty badge?’ when- if you thought, like, if you got
something right or you were proud of yourself or something... why
would you want a chuffty badge?... and she used to actually make them
like, if you were doing something like, creative, like ‘do a title
page for your book’ she’d get like stickers out and make a chuffty
badge, like... oh I see... ‘here’s your chuffty badge’... standard...
mm do you reckon who I’ll always remember from college... go on... ?
ah, that beasty... she’s- sh- she had baby didn’t she?... yeah... she
got it took off her... are you surprised?... well, no... she-... ah,
she hated me... sh-... she did... she loved me... she hated me for a
passion... ‘I’m going to the Trafford Centre to meet my someone
special’, like, great... I think it was the jogging pants that did it
for me... oh, God... big arse... that arse and then, who was it- that
they always used to wind- wind him up about like, ‘is your someone
special?’, like, ‘no, my someone special’s called ’ like, oh God...
who’s ?... the one that you were partners with in and didn’t know his
name... oh aye... for ages, and then bumped into him in and like,
‘who’s that- who’s that’ I was like, ‘’ you’re like, ‘ooh aye’... and
the one that- the one that works at... yeah, yeah... yeah... does he
actually work at the ? He does... well, he did, anyway, but so did
that , you know the pregnant one?... oh aye, she hated me... I think
in the first year she did, second years... I’ll always remember her
though when she was at when she was made partners with , cos had a bad
back, and she was pregnant, so the two of them couldn’t do anything
really... gutted... yeah, put them two together... ?... yeah she was
sick wasn’t she, and she hurt her back or something... ahh, was well
pissed off with her there... well, you would be... didn’t she stay in
the first one like, in the bus all day... yeah she worked for like an
hour and then stayed in the **inc**... I remember you dragging me to
get some food like, ‘Nadine , you need to eat, you’re gonna eat
now’... oh yeah, cos you didn’t eat all day... no, I didn’t eat the
whole first day... no, it was disgusting that place... I don’t think I
could cope being a runner, seeing the kitchen... eurgh, the lunches
were horrible there, whenever I think about-... why would you pay
like, nearly hundred and something quid f-... the buffet was alright
but, it was just the bloody-... we never had the buffet in ours
then... oh yeah, you didn’t get it did you... that was on the spinny
things innit... it was the erm,... thingy though, the erm four cheese
and mayonnaise sandwiches, I was like, eurgh, not eating that... I
wouldn’t mind but you didn’t even have hot water most of the time,
that coffee- coffee was minging... I know... I remember serving coffee
and it’s just so rank... the cakes were good there but then there was
that bitchy chef that always used to come over and be like, ‘you can’t
save all the cakes’, like, ‘well, we don’t wanna save all of them, but
we’re not gonna chuck them all away, people are hungry’... ‘people
aren’t gonna’ chefs are well mean... I know... our chefs are mean at
work, but yeah, they get away with murder as well... chefs can just be
mean at times, can’t they?... yeah, can’t they... I’m not a chef...
no, you just stand there and look pretty... you do though... oh, I’ll
have to be a chef on Wednesday though... gutted not coming to your
**inc** kitchen I might come and complain... and you’ll be like, ‘ahh,
is this Nadine ?’... yeah... it’s so annoying, they’ll- and they’ll
probably ask me like, ‘is there this and this’, I’ll be like, ‘I don’t
know’, some woman came up to me yesterday and w- well, not yesterday
the other day when I was really, really busy, the only one behind the
hot plate, and she was like this, ‘can I just ask you a few questions
about the ingredients?’, I was like, ‘in a minute’... Alan , Alan ,
Alan , you already told me this last night mate... oh... even though
you can’t remember the conversation we had I can... what when she g-
the one that couldn’t have tomatoes, yeast or gluten?... yeah and then
there was one about peppers, and she was allergic to peppers... oh
yeah... and then she’d... just peppers, which is weird... yeah, but
she asked you about the red and-... red and green... green, but she’s
actually allergic to all of them... yeah, ‘any red or green peppers in
it?’ ‘no’, ‘what about the other colours?’ I was like, ‘why don’t you
ask me if there’s any peppers in it?’... standard yeah, just cos you
can’t remember... oh, it’s getting warm in here again... do you want
me to open the door?... it’s the brightness I think... windy though
isn’t it pretty windy... yeah... erm, what do you remember from your
first day of school?... erm, from the very first day?... your very
first day... remember having take- picture taken at the front door...
did you?... mm... I didn’t... have you not seen my pictures?... I
remember my blazer was like three times- sizes too big for me... you
had a blazer?... I had a black blazer... eurgh, minging I wore my
summer dress the first day... did you?... yeah... in year seven?...
oh, in year seven? I thought you meant like primary school... I don’t-
oh, I remember hiding behind my Mum’s coat in primary school...
why?... she had a big long coat, and I didn’t wanna say hi to anyone,
so I lifted the coat up and stood under it... you pussy I remember
when high school, there was like the bikes and erm, my sister’s like,
‘right, wait there’... ten past three, ‘don’t move until I’m here,
wait there Nadine wait there’ I went, ‘okay’ and then I met and then
we walked round and saw like all our chum mates and that was it...
erm... and we used to all get lost as a four, just to be late to
lesson, standard... I remember on the second day, erm, of school we
had PE... I remember in the first day of year two I was- told my Mum
she didn’t need to come and pick me up again, I’m walking home and my
Mum never p- walked to school **inc** pick me up ever again so yeah,
and erm... that’s good... oh yeah... hmm... it wasn’t that far really
from me house, it was quite far actually for year twos... pah... mm,
mm, mm, mm... so why is coming round apart from pick the bag up?...
just to pick the stuff up... oh, so you’re not staying?... no... moody
bitch... we’ve gotta- he’s cutting her hair at three o’clock and he’ll
have to be quick or she’ll fall asleep... can’t she just like fall
asleep and then you just do it... that’d be a bit dangerous someone
trying to cut their hair... hmm, suppose... imagine if she started
sleep walking like that guy... ahhh, that guy was mank, I swear we’re
gonna watch that on CTV... I wanna see it... ahh, no, did I tell you
about getting told off from the CTV camera?... no... hot plate, -
sprawled out across the thingy, right was like showing it to , comes
in cos we’re like laying up the chalet, and goes, ‘who’s this, who’s
this?’ and I was ‘oh, that was before on the hot plate’, went ape shit
at him, honest to God, it was so funny... why’s getting involved
though?... cause came into see us cos she’s been away, and she’s like
missed them, so she came into see us all, and then she was like,
‘right, what’s the goss’ and then she went to and was like, ‘ah, come
and have a look at this, come what did’ I wouldn’t mind, but he only
came in at eight, and then he ha- he was like sprawled across, and was
like, ‘I wouldn’t mind but you didn’t even go out last night’...
‘don’t agree to breakfast if you couldn’t’ he was the one who got us
into trouble with the customers, apparently we’re moody people and we
don’t wanna be here so... the other week, well, no, this week, erm,
some woman came into work and erm, she was speaking to and was like,
‘right, so, what we want is, we want the erm, late lunch’ and she was
like, ‘I don’t know if the late lunch is on today actually’ and then
she was like, ‘well, it’s outside’ and so then she was like-... what’s
a late lunch?... the late- it’s just a menu that we do when the
regular lunches come off, we do a late lunch, so, they do t- like, cos
they normally don’t do stuff to order, they do shepherds pie...
scampi, and erm, sticky mango chicken-... so it’s a bit like a
buffet... no, cos they cook it f- like, to order... mm... and you get
it brought over to you and everything, so, but the main lunch was
still out, so she goes and asks if they’re doing it, and then erm, she
was like he said something like, erm, ‘we won’t be doing it until
like, half three’ or something, then she was like, ‘right, can we
order it now, and come back’ or something and then she was like,
‘right, we want two child’s portions of the shepherds pie’... why
child?... she goes, ‘well, we can’t do child’s portions of the
shepherds pie’ she’s like, ‘why?’, ‘they’re already portioned up in an
adults portion, and they’re that price, and it doesn’t say anywhere
that we can do a child’s portion’ and she’s like, ‘well, we want
child’s portions, this is absolutely ridiculous’ so she’s basically on
one, she’s having a go at erm, then like, wouldn’t stop, I don’t know
what even she was saying to her, I kind of looked over at her, and
then in the end she was like, ‘it’s not very good, you’re loosing five
customers here that nanana’... and going on with herself, in the end
she walks out, I turned to and said, ‘are you alright?’ like this, and
then she smiles and kind of goes, ‘yeah’ and kind of like laughed it
off, but kind of just to say, ‘yeah, it’s fine’, the woman comes back
like, thirty seconds later, ‘I don’t think it’s right that you’re
laughing at us as soon as we leave’, I was like,... ‘excuse me, we
weren’t laughing at her, I asked her if she was alright’, and she was
like, ‘no, I don’t think it’s very funny, you’re laughing at us and
we’re walking away, you’re- this... what was that? mm... **inc**...
yeah, think so... ahh... I’m just gonna carry on anyway... yeah, carry
on... **inc** erm... so what else did she say... she just said that
really... didn’t she walked away and you laughed again?... yeah, then
she walked away, and no-one even realised... well you- to be fair, you
were laughing... no, we weren’t laughing, I asked her if she was
alright, because... cheeky bitch... it was quite personal the way that
she was saying to her, like, ‘w- why- what are you’ she kept saying to
her, ‘what are you gonna do about it?’... and she was like, ‘there’s
nothing I can do about it’ and in the end she- I thought that she’d
just leave it, the woman, and erm, erm, thought that or would step in
and say something to her, but they didn’t even know what was going on,
we had to say it to later on, oh, it was ridiculous it’s so
horrible... **inc** **inc** you’re so mean, I’m a good girl when I’m
in work... what are local people like in ?... shit, I don’t speak to
them... I hate , with a passion... what’s wrong with it?... it’s just
not right, you know it’s not right can’t bel- believe my Mum kicked
off about it erm, you know when said, at the meal... said what?...
ahh, cos Mum- Mum said something about the house being up, and goes
‘oh, you moving?’... and sh- sh- Mum goes, ‘yeah’, and then I went,
‘yeah’ and like, ‘oh, where do you wanna move round- round here
again?’ and she goes, ‘aye, don’t you?’ and then you said something,
and you were like, ‘I couldn’t turn back time’ and it’s like, ‘if we
could turn back time’... oh yeah... and then your Mum was like, ‘yeah’
and I was like, ‘bloody hell, it’s starting now’, can’t believe she
said it she knows I wouldn’t move... wouldn’t have moved from here?...
yeah... hmm well... you know me... at least they’re not like in bred
in... hey?... at least they’re not in bred in... in bred?... yeah...
why?... cos they’re all in bred in apparently... oh yeah, it’s
‘nine’... what?... it’s what was doing when he took the piss out of...
oh, oh... yeah, I’ll just shut up now... it’d be slightly funny if you
could do it... what? pr- pr- pr- problem is right, was trying to do it
again and it wasn’t funny... oh... it had- it was like one of them
moment ones where it had to be there, it’s like, carry on from the
conversation, isn’t it, innit... yeah... swerve it... mm... but yeah
just cos you’re dead posh round here... dead posh... you are posh,
told you you’re posh... everyone’s posh to you that isn’t like, you
basically... yeah anyone’s posh that- that can read... you can read,
you just can’t read well... I can’t... and you get confused... you
can’t, you- you say it... I said that you can’t read well... oh right,
okay... mm... erm,... what do you and your family do in your free time
when you were growing up?... we used to stay in each others room and
not talk... standard, isn’t it... that’s not- just sit in each others
rooms and just not talk?... just not talk... no, cos you used to do
stuff with... yeah, that was different... well, what did you used to
do with ?... I used to play on the playstation, but, you know, got bit
of obsessed... used to take him to the park... yeah, and then break me
arm... well, you know I was never in when I was a kid I was always out
tea on the go micro-chips... what did you- I thought, no, I didn’t
think you played on the playstation, I thought it was that woman that
used to come and visit him... yeah, night port thing, night care yeah
but what are y- who- are you meant to kept him entertained through the
day?... your Mum did a lot **inc**... my Mum like looked after him, I
just kept him entertained... oh, guess so... I didn’t do anything, the
only thing I did was give him a drink now and then... **inc**-... and
then like spill it over himself I remember trying putting his coat on
once, it was so funny, I so just like laughed all- for most of the
day, Mum goes, ‘you not ready yet?’, and I went, ‘no, can’t put his
coat on’. We had a moveable bed, and you know how they can rise, well,
my brothers could actually go right up to the ceiling... did he ever
put it all the way up?... ye-... ah... what did your Mum say?... my
Mum wasn’t very happy with me... what, with you? Why, did you do it to
her?... no, we’re both on it... and we go, ‘let’s see how high it
could go’, we didn’t realise it went,... but it got stuck, like, we
couldn’t move... ah, no... so we were all, ‘oh, I’ll have to jump
off’, and Mum goes, ‘you dare jump off’, ‘can’t get it down Mum, can’t
get it down’, she goes, ‘yeah, you can’, okay so, yeah, we got it down
in eventually... eventually... but you know, like, when you go right
to the top, and then it was just like yeah... **inc**... can we pause
it at all?... I don’t- erm, yeah, okay, wait 28.30 – Recording paused
– continues on in soundfile... two, three, four, five... yeah... one,
two, three, four, five... okay... come on, **inc** mine... yeah,
man... yeah, man I don’t like- I don’t want about school... I dunno...
yeah, great, that’s fantastic... I’m bored, thanks... **inc**... what
games did you like playing as a kid?... the lying down game No left
channel... the lying down game, can’t believe it’s used to call... no,
I never played it as th- the lying down game, plankey... plankey...
**inc** I don’t know what... I can’t believe-... I know my cousins
used to always play, erm, we had two but they were basically the same
game but they had different names, one of them we called, erm, was
‘pizza planet’, and one of them was ‘cool kids’, and they were
basically our own, erm, takeaway, fast food place... Is that why you
got into hospitality Alan ?... I don’t actually know, but it’s a bit
weird, cos we used to like pretend that we had, the- erm, like, frying
the chips, and you used to, erm, have buttons to do the drinks and
stuff... that is sad bastards... and, erm, used to have wh- I don’t
know what those things are called, but you know those boards where you
like write on them, and then you can just wipe it off-... white
boards?... no, it’s not like a white board, erm-... chalk board?...
no, it’s like the grey stuff-... an electrasketch?... yeah, one of
them, I think... is that not-... so... me hairs all knotty now... erm,
yes I think it was an electrasketch... is it?... erm, so and we used
to like write ‘cool kids’ on it and do like smiley faces and stuff,
and stick it on the door, and we’re like, ‘this is our restaurant’...
did you not have any of your mates, so you had to hang round with your
cousins?... I used to go to my cousins every Saturday... where’s the
pencil?... don’t know why, but we used to do it all the time Left
channel resumes... oh well all the ti-... and then we’d go to Drama on
Sunday as well... erm what games did you used to play as a kid?... I
used to be a chef with my Nan, used to make her sit there, you know
the old newspapers, used to roll the cutlery in that cos my Nan never
used to have napkins, and I used to like take her order, used to have
like a little apron out- made out of a tea towel, and I used to like
make- tell her to sit there and she used to have to proper like
pretend she was eating, I’m like, ‘right Nan, you’ve finished that
now’ ‘on to-’... ‘on to that’ yeah, used to have all like her frying
pans out and stuff and like, yeah, ‘I’m cooking Nan’ she’s like, ‘what
am I eating?’... I was like, ‘dunno, just make it up as you go
along’... ‘you can decide what you’re eating’... yeah... ‘it’s up to
you’ hmm... erm, I dunno, it was always school or home I remember
being-... yeah, it’s really hard to think about what you used to play
as a kid... we used to play shoe competition on the swings... shoe
competitions?... yeah, where you- where you sh- kick your shoes off on
the swing... could never do that, I always used to tie my laces... oh
my God, get a grip... shoe competition **inc**... ah no, cos you know
like at the park they’ve got like- you’ve got that spider web haven’t
you?... yeah... and then they’ve got the like fence haven’t they? My
sister could get it over that fence, that’s a bowling green of course,
so it’s old biddies that own it... so they used to kick off every time
my sister you like, played, ‘can I have me shoe back please’... was
that at ?... yeah man, back in the day back in the day... mm... I
dunno, always used to play with my brother we just used to-... on the
playstation?... no used to just have a ride around, holding his
wheelchair with rollerblades on... rollerblades, used to be mint
weren’t it... what, so you’d wear your rollerblades and hold onto
his-... hold onto the back... ahh... and then you’d just like standard
innit... you’re such a geek... I never played with me sister hardly...
don’t blame you... she always used to be round at house... you didn’t
wanna play with her in the gym... ah, so boring... I get bored... that
is my favourite thing, like, that’s happened in like, years...
what?... when you were like ‘I’ve been to the gym, I need to eat’...
I’m like, ‘why’,... ‘I need to put back on the weight that I’ve burnt
off’... that’s not the purpose of the gym, for... I only went to keep
her company, I didn’t say I needed to loose some weight problem is,
she got knackered before me... well, obviously you’re meant to be at
the gym then aren’t you?... mm, well that’s what she said but I-...
how can you just like do exercise for an hour and a half gets so
boring... I dunno... go like swimming or something keeps you more
entertained... swimming’s not that entertaining... it is... how is it?
Just looking at water... dunno, don’t feel like you’re doing much...
it’s entertaining when swimming... why?... have you not- have I not
told you about how swims?... no, I thought we were going swimming
today, see, we could’ve gone swimming... because you didn’t go to the
gym... right, anyway when - when -... no, no, don’t change the
subject... I was- I- we were talking about this subject first, you
changed the subject... yeah, because you’re the one who said we could
go swimming and... well-... you’re like, ‘ah no, I’m going to the-’
yeah I might tell my Mum to come early and drag her swimming with
us... right so - when... that sounds like a plan done it... when
swimming... ahh, and the chips from that s- yeah, sorry... but- yeah,
the chips in make me always feel sick... ahh, they used to be fit...
cause of the smell from the- all the chlorine... they’re fit, fit as,
that used to be like, weekend, me and my sister, that’s what I did
with my sister, go swimming with the floats, and you know if you had
arm bands you weren’t allowed to go past like a certain, like-... did
you ever put armbands on someone’s feet?... no... I did... nearly
died, the lifeguard goes, he was like, ‘take them off, now’... why?...
because... you put armbands on your feet, and you go like that, and as
soon as you let go they go, pff, like that and you go upside down...
standard... and they’re like stuck on your ankles... so you can’t get
them off either... which ones did you have? Them blow-up ones that you
couldn’t put on your arm like , and you can ne-... pink ones...
pink... yeah... you’re a boy... yeah, no, they weren’t like... my
bum’s sore now... bought them cos they were pink, they were like the
pink ones that they sold there cos they had like yellow ones-... do
you remember the rubber ring ones that you can get now... no...
yeah... but anyway, as I was saying, when swimming... bum’s sore...
like when we were on holiday, he’ll like go in and he looks like- like
he’s like, his neck’s like this, like the water’s there... and- and-
so he’s like this, and then every now and again he’ll go under and
he’ll be like spitting water out, like,... oh my God, and he
constantly looks like he’s just going to die... like he’s stand there,
and he’s like- and he always grabs onto people like, ‘’ and then... so
as you as you get, like, when we’re on holiday, he’ll like be drowning
me and I’ll do like, that to him and-... can he not swim?... he can
swim, just about, like, with that **inc**... like, dying, I’m like,
‘oh my God, you’re the worst swimmer ever’... I bet you’re not that
good... I’m better than him anyway... I bet you’re not that good did
you used to go swimming in high school?... yeah... ‘til what age?
They’re meant to stop after the first two- two years apparently...
yeah, we only did it in year seven- year five and year six, oh not in
high school, no, we never did it in high school... you didn’t do it in
high school? Jammy **inc**... no, we only did it in Primary... we had
to do it all the way to year, erm, eleven, it’s only cos people
couldn’t swim in our class... no, they seriously couldn’t, no-one
could swim in our class apart from me... it’s like, really bad, she’d
right- ‘we’ll do front crawl’, and we all had to like, be in the lanes
cos, to like, our class was that small we had one lane each... and no
joke, she says, ‘do front crawl’, no one could do it, they’ll do doggy
paddle, she’s like, ‘ah, do backstroke’, everyone could do backstroke
apart from the ones who used to just kick their legs... yeah, I know,
your arm-... and then-... your arms don’t really help with backstroke
though, I don’t think... no, I never see the point, and then erm,...
you just always wet your face and stuff... the breaststroke cou- no-
one could- everyone could do the arms, but then they didn’t do the
legs... right, they just like kicked their legs,... no, you don’t do,
yeah... but if you don’t do your legs right you co- it doesn’t work
the same, cos you’re meant to glide in the s- yeah... you see, yeah,
I’m a geek really, and then erm yeah, no-one could do butterfly apart
from me, everyone used to stand there and-... what’s butterfly?... the
one where you go, pfff... never even done that in my life... and you
know that one that you’ve gotta lie on your back but you’ve got to
like go forward oh, okay... no... it’s like the, yeah, it is, it’s
like an unusual one, and then we used to have to spin all the way down
and then you used to have to jump in the pool to extend your legs
apparently, d-... could you dive?... no, we weren’t allowed to...
oh... I remember you did a belly flop once, it was so funny... do you
know what was the- were you ever jealous when you all used to come in-
in the pyjamas to do like the one with the... no, I wasn’t allowed, my
sister did for BTEC sport... oh... she had to be in fully clothed
shoes and everything and they did like this diving and what have you
with... the clothes on and stuff... that was hilarious, I was well
jealous in year five, when all the year sixes were like-... we used to
do water polo, that used to be good... **inc**... and no-one ever
wanted to go in the deep end... I’ve never pl I was gonna, ah- I was
gonna ask the most stupid question then... go on... it wasn’t about
the horses in water polo anyway... I’m really confused... g- I
couldn’t remember what it was for a second I was like, ‘oh yeah,
polo’s the one with the horses isn’t it, how do horses play water
polo’ yeah, that was a bit of a stupid one... okay, wait