One, two, three. Best or funniest memory from when I was young. w- h-
how young are we talking about here? Yeah, I think the best- probably
the best memory I have of- of being young is- is Christmas time when
all the family used to get together in those days we- we always had
all our aunts and uncles and cousins round on Christmas day and- and
erm- we- w- there wasn’t an awful lot of money but erm we used to have
quite a big s- slap up meal at lunchtimes and lots of games and lots
of fun. No television of course in those days so yeah that’s probably
the best memory I’ve got from being young. I would think that was from
being- from as early as I can remember being through- going through to
being about twelve. Something like EOS Yeah, yeah, yeah. But erm a-
as- as people grew older they didn’t want to- families got bigger as
well. They did- th- they didn’t get together the same. How many of
you? That’s right yeah. No I never went to the laundry no. We- we had
erm- when I was nine year old we- we moved into a shop. We used to
have a shop in **anon**. My mother’s ran the shop. It was erm- ladies
and children’s wear shop. We had a few different sidelines as well.
And my mother used to work six days a week in that. Me dad was an
engineer so he went out to work where he used to help on a Saturday.
And erm when we were there for six years altogether and erm one of the
things I think I’ve mentioned this to Barney **anon** before that
always sticks in my mind that was on- on a Saturday because my mother
was still working in the shop- I used to go to the local chip shop for
lunch and I used to get three lots of fish and chips for half a crown
in total. Now half a crown was twelve and a half pence. So that just
shows how prices have changed. But erm one of the best things about
living there was the fact that we had a double cellar and in the
cellar we used to have a- a shooting EOS With an air rifle. Erm and my
dad would set up so you could- you could- you could put targets- three
targets in at one end- and th- and then shoot down this little- walled
area and erm- we also used to do photography as well in the cellar. We
used to d- do our own developing and printing and erm cos we had
running water in this cellar. We had a sink in the corner so- so erm
yeah good times yeah. But it- We did that in erm- in- in the attic
didn’t we. Yeah. It was a big s- a big attic. That was a big attic
bedroom. And it wasn’t a small snooker table it was a three quarter
size snooker table. Are they yours? shall we move on to another- There
was when I- when I lived in **anon** before we moved to the shop. Erm
there were quite a few kids in the street and they- erm all similar
aged. Erm and because it was a cul-de-sac it had a sort of a- a- it
opened out and there was a- a- a good play area for kids but we had
all the fields at the back as well. And erm yeah there were quite of-
quite a number of erm both bl- boys and girls to play with. Erm I was
saying the age difference probably was three or four years older than
me to three or four years younger than me. So lots of kids. You got
some- can I have one of those mats? Maybe I think b- by the time we
went to grammar school they probably EOS but I don’t remember any of
the- any of the teachers at junior school EOS cars at all. But at
grammar school they used to park just behind- well- well I went to
**anon** school. There’s- I did three years at **anon** school erm
before I moved to **anon** where Barney **anon** was. Erm travelling
from the shop in **anon** was about four miles to **anon** school from
there and there were probably three or four teachers had cars in those
days. And one of the- one of the erm- the thing that everybody envied
was my cousin. He was in the sixth form when I started. And he had a
motorbike and he used to park this motorbike in the- in the little-
there was a little extension to the playground where the EOS parked
their cars. And he used to erm leave his bike there and I was the envy
of the other kids when I got a lift home with him. Cause there were no
crash helmets in those- you just got on the back and went didn’t you.
When we lived at the shop in **anon** there was just down the lane was
a park with swings and- and roundabouts and- sliding and erm we used
to spend all day there sometimes you know you- you didn’t w- h- worry
about your kids being out. Never heard of paedophiles and erm- Erm I
don’t think it had no and- Keep it anonymous. I never got that close
to him. I don’t re- I don’t remember what he looked like . I think he
was just a legend when I went to- when I got to **anon**. Tha- that’s
right and there was- and there was no traffic on the roads. There was-
there were very few cars so you- you- there was danger of crossing
main roads and- mm- It takes- it seems to take longer in a car than it
used to on the EOS I’m sure. Used to- we always used to reckon
Southport was thirty EOS I’m sure it’s- it- it’s the road system. Must
be the road system these days it’s- it’s nearer forty- I noticed one
of the questions here says did you ever get hurlt- hurt whilst playing
when you were a kid? I remember breaking my arm once. We used to have-
in our garden we used to have a- a six foot wall at the back. Drop
down. And we used to swing on a s- on a washing line- out and drop
into the garden. And my f- ankle got tangled up in the rope. So I
swung out and my ankle stayed where it was- and I went down and I
broke my arm. That’s erm- I’ve only had three breaks in my life and
that was the first one. My only- I’ve only had one break playing rugby
and that was this erm metatarsal but erm I broke my ankle playing
soccer- when I was about eighteen, seventeen perhaps. Mm. Still got a
scar? Oh aye you did yeah. How are we doing for time **anon**? Shall
we mo- shall we move on? It’s all about school and we’ve t- we’ve
touched on school. No where did you go to school it says. And I should
think the bridge was probably closed a lot more in those days as well
than it is- it is today- cause there was a lot of traffic up and down-
the ship canal- to the docks. There was a- always queues. I remember
queues when I first started driving every time I tried to cross
**anon** bridge. Mm. I started at **anon** school in erm **anon** or
**anon** on the border I think which was just a- a standard state
school. Quite big classes in those days about- I think I remember
there were forty eight kids in EOS Erm and there were- it was quite a
big school because there were four streams A, B, C, and D in the
secondary school and we erm- tended t- to have just one teacher for
all the lessons. Erm and I remember that starting in the second year
at junior school and the- the teacher came in- our form teacher and
started writing on the board in real writing. And none of us had
learnt real writing before that time- so he realised he had to stop
and teach us how to do real writing- before he could teach us anything
else. So that’s- that’s the- the time we learnt it. And then in the
fourth year we all took our eleven plus t- to g- see if we could go to
EOS And out of the school- out of the year there were twelve people
passed their eleven plus. And I was one of them and I went to **anon**
grammar school. And erm touching on one of these questions here. First
day at- at school at **anon** school. There was an initiation ceremony
and between two sets of steps and the school there was a like erm a-
a- the- the bank went down and then there was like a- a gully which
was about three foot wide and three foot deep. Erm and probably ten
yards wide at the very most and all the first year kids were thrown
into that- on the first day. So there were probably fifty or sixty
kids crammed into this thing. And if you ever- if you tried to get out
you got thrown back in- And that was called a monkey run. No no no no-
that was- it was mixed but it was segregated playgrounds of course.
Yeah it was mixed yeah. Yeah. That erm- so that was- the monkey run.
Everybody in brand new school uniforms- got thrown in the dirt you
know. The first day. Oh yeah yeah. We had to wear a school cap at all
times on the way to school- on the way home from school, lunchtimes if
you went out. Although you weren’t generally allowed out of school
unless you were going home for EOS Yeah yeah. Well I- I once got erm
into trouble for going out of school at lunchtime. We used- we used-
we used- But this was when I was at **anon**- We got- we got caned.
Two of us went out to buy a bottle of sauce to have with our school
dinner. And we were on second sitting and we got caught. Called before
the headmaster and we got caned for erm going out of school at
lunchtime. Or Daddies I’m not sure. One or the other. Yeah yeah . No
we- we- we weren’t obliged to wear short trousers. I wore long
trousers in the first year. But no we could wear long trousers. When I
joined **anon** school in the forth year there were still some of the
lads- wearing short trousers- in the forth year and that would’ve been
what age fifteen, sixteen? That’s right they- that was erm- that was
the same at **anon**. The girls had a uniform dress for the summer-
for the summer term. And the other two terms they had to wear gym
slips up to a certain age and then it was skirts and blouses wasn’t it
after a certain age and ties- Yeah. White blouses. Show that to
**anon** actually- It’s quite interesting- cause I- I think we both-
Yeah. I think we’re both on that one aren’t we? Is that the fifty nine
one- fifty eight one? Fifty eight yeah. Yeah. I was showing **anon**
the other night. Yeah came across it. Yeah. Mm. We used to erm- well
we both played for the same under fifteens- football team. **anon**
was captain who we still see occassionally. And erm Barney **anon**
was vice captain and I’d just joined the school in the fourth year.
And played in one or two games classes and they picked me to play on
the under fifteens team. So we’ve got a photograph of that somewhere.
We played in- and then we played e- for the school team didn’t we the
EOS And the erm- the full team. But we were both quite keen on erm
athletics and- and sports as well. I never played cricket very much
but erm- I used to join in all the erm different sports day
activities. That were before erm- oh yeah cos you were a year- no it’s
probably the year I joined. But you were in- you were a year younger
than me. So you were still in junior school weren’t you. Oh is- it was
when you were in second year was it. Did you yeah. Cause I came second
to **anon** in the erm middle school. Erm Rex Ludorum they used to
call it. King of the games. I came- I came second and **anon** came
third. Much to his annoyance. He’d been bragging the year before- that
he was gonna win it. Was it Victor a- at **anon**. It was Rex at
**anon**. Victor at **anon**. Victor Ludorum. I don’t know what the
girl got called. Don’t know. Didn’t- I didn’t know any girls called
Victor. Oh blimey. No no- that would- that would stay- that would stay
no Ludorum. Th- that would- that wouldn’t- that wouldn’t be sexed. No
it’s- that- that Ludorum means ‘of the games’ doesn’t it? So it
could’ve been erm- Vict- could’ve been Victris or some- Victrix.
Victrix or something like that I suppose. Well yeah we were in- the
school choir and then- No I wasn’t in the school orchestra. No. No I
never went in the sc- well what did you play in the school- Oh yeah
it’s right. That was after I’d left I think. It was when I was in the
sixth form. Played at school- school con- school dance yeah. As a
group. Yeah. Yeah we- No no no no. It was the school dance. Yeah- at
erm- we were the first group ever- to play at a school dance. That was
in nineteen fifty eight. Christmas dance. I can even remember what
songs we played . It was erm- I sang erm Tom Dooley and erm what was
the other one. Flip side of it. What was it called? Run a- rock my
soul. And you sang- Travelling Light. Mm. And we’re still practising.
Well I w- well I left. I left that Christmas. Yeah w- yeah I started
work. Yeah. Yeah. And then he went off to university so we split up
then. But we didn’t- no- not- no- As such- yeah. Of a sort. Mm. Oh it
w- it was a treat to have played at a venue where they had a
microphone wasn’t it- because quite a few of them didn’t. So there
were no mic- no amplification in some of them. The school had a- a
microphone didn’t they. And the erm- certainly Eccles town hall did.
Oh yeah yeah the echoes. I think I probably just went the odd time.
But I used to **anon** when I was younger and we used to go from
school. We were taught to swim from school went to **anon**. that was-
that was quite- and **anon**. I- I went to **anon** a few times. I lot
of my youth I spent in the scouts and the sea scouts based at **anon**
from being about thirteen year old- up to it was probably about twenty
six when I packed it in altogether EOS What we used to do spend a load
of time goin away camping and- Yeah. But erm- Well everybody went to
Sunday school in those days- but it was- it was only once for me.
There was no choir cos it was a little mission church down in
**anon**. No no no. Well the church was the other side wasn’t it?Ok Arnold **anon**. I’ll kick off- we’ll kick off with you shall we?
Your best or funniest memory. When you were young. Can you remember
that far back? Again it depends really on how far back you can
remember . How young were you then? When you did- when you did change?
So your life changed soon after you’ve met me? Up to that age I erm- I
think my Christmases were very similar in that people came to us for a
Christmas lunch. But because the erm, accomodation that we had at the
time was a bit cramped all the children went into the back room and
the adults were in the main dining room cos that’s when we lived at
the laundry. We had a chinese laundry in those days. And the- the
front room was shop. It was where we did the ironing, stored the
laundry that had been EOS And the middle room was the living room
where we did everything EOS And the back room was the stove room.
There was a coal fired stove with flat irons against it. But there was
a big table in there as well. So that’s where the kids sat to have
their Christmas dinner. But it was still good fun and happy times. In
total people- oh- well there was- three six erm I- I can’t think of
it. Two sisters at the time **anon** and **anon**, myself. **anon**
wasn’t with us then. **anon** was an after thought. I think my mum
thought she was going to get a new washing machine for Christmas you
know. She got **anon** instead. Erm then there’d be my three cousins
**anon**, **anon**. You’ve met **anon** haven’t you? and there’d be my
grandad. Auntie **anon**, mum, dad, uncle **anon** and auntie **anon**
they were **anon** parents. Uncle **anon** and auntie **anon** they
were Pamela’s **anon** parents. Auntie **anon** used to come on her
own because grandad didn’t like uncle **anon**- and uncle **anon**
didn’t like Grandad . So he- had the- he had Christmas dinner with his
mother. So there was a lot of us. And erm the odd friend. People like
that used to pop in throughout the day. Erm- but one of the most
memorable things as a kid happened when I was at the laundry. Erm when
me grandmother was alive she used to make beetroot wine. And you had
to wait for it to mature- before you drank it. But I was being a
little bit eager and I opened one before it was ready and it was like
champagne and this red fizz went a- all over- freshly laudered sheets,
shirts, pillow cases. A whole days washing was absolutely ruined. And
I think I went to me bedroom, locked it, and I was there for two day .
I was scared stiff of me grandad. He really did rule the roost. Yeah.
Fearsome character but erm extremely kind as well - and hard working.
His day used to start at about six o clock in the morning and go on
till three o’clock the following morning. That was Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday. Thursday, Friday, Saturday his day started at nine and
finished about five. But the laundry was all done by then and it was
just a question of taking in new stuff and delivering your- or doleing
out the laundered stuff to the erm- the regular customers cos they
nearly all were regulars in those days. They all had their own laundry
mark which was written on the back of their laundry in small chinese
writing EOS We didn’t know the names we just knew the mark EOS Yeah
but that was all before I knew you wasn’t it Arnold **anon** the EOS
You hardly ever went did you to the laundry? Yeah we used to do some
of that didn’t we at- in my bedroom. Yeah in the attic but there was
no running water there. I don’t know how we coped really. We did
everything in my bedroom. There was a snooker table. Yeah and we did
the photography on top of the snooker table. And when we weren’t doing
the photography we were playing snooker. And somehow we managed to fit
my bed at the other end. It was too big for a normal house and I gave
it to erm a youth club- in **anon** and erm unfortunately it closed
down soon afterwards didn’t EOS And I don’t know what happened to that
table. Erm todays prices it was probably worth about five, six hundred
EOS But nobody wanted it cos nobody had room for it. Sign of the
times. **anon** taken my glasses away. I know it’s big print. Mm? It’s
alright. I can read just fine. Would you like some water? I’ll just
get some. We’ll carry on talking. Ah. Ask **anon** she’ll know. Were
there a lot of kids to play with when you were growing up? Yeah I was
the same. We had lots of kids when I was at junior school because in
those days most kids went to school near where they lived. Nobody went
to school by car. I don’t know how we managed. Thank you. You get a
waitress service as well. Can I just say when we went to junior school
all the kids lived near EOS Nobody ever went to school in a car. Not
even the teachers. They didn’t have cars did they. Oh I think maybe
the headmaster did. Yeah. Headmaster had one. Yeah. We had a g- Yeah
there were always a couple of guys at **anon** school had motorbikes
and they were always the ones that had girlfriends and erm- They’d
imaged themselves on James Dean and erm- who you might’ve heard of.
And they were always the rebels who left school with no O-levels and
EOS but lots of girlfriends. Lots of reputation behind them- which
they c- couldn’t put on theirs CVs . But at junior school lots of kids
to play with. Erm- Out- out playing everyday. Erm I don’t think our
parents had any fears about us going out and s- being out. Well it was
a word that hadn’t been invented I don’t think. Erm we had one in
Eccles who I now realise was a paedophile. Everyone knew him so you
just avoided him. He was called **anon**. and he wore a big fedora-
Yeah I’ll not tell you his surname. And he wore a big long mac and
great big boots. He was straight off a Lowry. Erm and he had a most
horrible face and sometimes you could walk down towards **anon**- and
you’d see him on the aquaduct. You could- his image was there. So y-
you now had to decide did you wait for your mate before you went over
the bridge to go to church- or did you just wait ‘til he was looking
the other way and run like EOS Well that’s how we coped with
paedophilia in those days. Just EOS Oh I- I go- I got too close to his
brother one day erm- there was a guy who was in our year at grammar
school **anon**. Do you remember **anon**? Oh he lived near **anon**
and he had a mad brother. And if people used to hang about outside
their house he’d open the window and he used to have a jerry under the
bed. A wee pot or whatever . And he used to empty it. So- over whoever
was standing outside his house. Aye that was **anon**. But we were
lucky where we lived **anon** because there were lots of EOS Erm
**anon** didn’t exist and you were soon going toward **anon** EOS and
round there there were lots and lots of fields where you could just
enjoy yourself and- go home with jam jars full of newts and tadpoles
and erm- No you could go on your bike anywhere. I mean regular bike
trips were- places like Lymm, Pickmere. And if you were really fit
Chester or Southport. Mind you I did Chester once and I was so tired
when I got there. Had my- had my sandwiches bottle of pop., and I said
‘we’d better get EOS ‘If I stay much longer I’ll fall asleep and I’ll
never get home’. Ah- it seems to take forever in a car now. It’s- so
does Southport. I’ve- I’ve never had a break. Mind you I’ve never
played rugby and you have. Yeah the only visit I had to erm casualty
as we used to call it not accident and emergency was when I fell off a
swing. Must’ve been about nine, ten and there was a little bit of
competition going on to see who could do the most daring things on the
swing. Like jump off while it was still in the air and not using your
hands and just s- sticking with it and I got to the back swing and
just fell off chin first. Yes it was that scar. So I went home. Mum
took me to **anon** casualty and the nurse s- said ‘Oh well that’s one
way to lose a bit of fat isn’t it’ EOS then she just got her scissors
out and cut the excess fat off and stitched it up. Done and dusted. No
local. Erm so that was swinging. Erm- Yeah, the only other time in
casualty, was erm three years ago when I fell. Tripped over **anon**-
**anon** the dog. I nearly lost me thumb and I had to have- they
couldn’t count the stitches. Well I couldn’t. I just got fed up of
trying to keep count. It was all round here as far as there. I was
lucky that **anon** was around and erm she wrapped a towel around it.
Put it in the air. And she drove me to hospital. And it was the first
time she’d driven EOS ‘I’ve never driven it before’. But you’ll soon
learn. nearly- nearly half term. Yes lets move on. Oh we done- touch-
touched on school and erm- what have we got there scholarsh-? Where
did you go to school. Oh here right. Well I started at **anon**
school. **anon** for short. Erm **anon** was a victorian
philanthropist who did things like building hospitals and schools. And
he built one in **anon** for the erm Church of England children who
lived in **anon**. There was already a Church of England school there
attached to the church- called **anon**- **anon** but it was the other
side of **anon**. And very few lived on that side . Most of the kids
lived on the **anon** side. And that’s probably one reason why he
sited it where he did in erm- in **anon**. Oh it’s very busy traffic
yeah. I bet it was opened and closed every hour. Went there from five
‘til- five years ‘til I was ten and then **anon** ‘til I was
seventeen. Seven years there. Was it that- Was that an all boys
school- or was it mixed? Yeah yeah we had that. Yeah w- w- we had it
like that. Well I suppose ours was a cleansing our i- initiation
ceremony. You had your head put in the toilet and the toilet flushed.
I think a lot of headmasters in those days tried to run their schools
along public school lines. And erm they must have knew- known these
intiation ceremonies were EOS and it were just ‘part of school life
old chap’. You know . Erm cos I presume you had to wear a school cap
did you? Yeah then you had to have written permission for that didn’t
you. Well I did. It was when I went out with you to the local café EOS
Had a quick pepsi and a woodbine . what kind of sauce was it? Did you
have to wear short trousers? Oh. We were erm- third year before we
could wear long trousers. Yeah well if the parents still thought
‘those shorts still fit’- I’m not buying you long trousers just bec-
Yeah waste of money. Yes it was erm- the girls wore gym slips in the
winter and dresses in EOS Which they don’t seem to do now do they. Oh
yes after y- about forth year. Yeah. Yeah I’ve- I’ve got one of those
old school photographs that’s about a yard long- or two yards long.
And you can see all the different uniform styles- according to their
ages on that. Did you have them taken in your school? Yeah the long
ones. I think we are yeah. Fifty eight, fifty nine something like that
yeah. Yeah. You’re on the back row. Were you? . Yes so we both
remember our first days at school then. I- I- my initiation was easy
because I knew some of the lads in the second year and erm they did me
a favour and erm made sure I didn’t get too much of a ducking in the
toilets . They wanted me to play football in their team as well. I
spent my life- school life being favoured and because I had a certain
amount of what most people thought was a little bit of talent at EOS
And erm it was misguided. This lad, cricket I was selected for the
school cricket team. And I was still in shorts and it was ridiculous
going out to play cricket in shorts. So my mum had to take me to the
co-op in Eccles to buy me some white long trousers to play cricket.
And I never got a bat or a bowl. I must’ve been a pretty good fielder
EOS Oh yeah yeah. We have. Yeah. Yeah I was erm junior athletics
champion. Me and **anon**, **anon**- Before you joined wasn’t it. Well
I w- I was- in the second year. Yeah I think to get- junior you had to
be under thirteen. what was the leading girl called? If the leading
man was Rex or Victor- Victor Ludorum wasn’t it- the erm the men or
the- Was it? Erm it was Victor at **anon**. No I only did Latin for
one year. Victorlia- Victoria Ludarum- Ludorum EOS I don’t know what’s
the female- what’s the female adjec- W- Ludorum would be the same. You
don’t change it like in French from petit to petite. Yeah Victoria
Ludorum . Erm could I give him a ring back if you get his number?
Please EOS Oh ab- another half an hour at least. They always say ‘are
you happy with your car?’ and I think yeah EOS Yes, music music. We
did a lot music together didn’t we. School choir- at gammar school. I
played guitar but it- it was the cello part. The teacher just put a
few- notes down that normally a cellist would play. And I had to just
plonk them out . But we erm- we played at the school concert didn’t
we. Our school dance. At the hop. Did we call them dances or did we-
we didn’t call them hops or EOS Aye. And what did you- What you sang .
Go- w- w- what songs did you play? Rock my soul in the bosom of- still
can’t play. But I think we did- did we just do that one EOS Did they
ask us back? You left of course yeah. Yeah w- we went on to bigger-
bigger and better venues after school. I- Eccles town hall was our
last appearance. **anon** was the first EOS and him and the lead
guitarist and the drummer they prefered to buy cars and motorbikes and
things instead of amplification. but we’d have- we wouldn’t have been
able- w- we had amplification of EOS We had microphones sellotaped- to
the back of our guitars. leading into reel to reel tape recorders. So
it was really not loud at all EOS Oh aye they had their own PA system.
Yeah and Urmston baths. Urmston baths is- do you remember when it was
the erm circular one? Opposite the Curzon. Yeah, well they used to
have dances there. They used to put boards over the- the pool EOS and
we played there once at Urmston and Flixton junior football league’s
presentation evening. We sounded good with the echoes and- the water
and- the roof top. And it was a complete dome at the top made out of
glass and one year I think it was s- let me see **anon** was about six
or seven. It’d have been about nineteen eighty. We had in- tremendous
hale stones. Bigger than golf balls. And they went right through the
roof of Urmston baths. And of course all the glass followed and all
the tiles were damaged EOS the council said it’s erm not economical to
repair. So they knocked EOS and it was a magnificent building. Th-
they had diving boards and erm nice café sauna. Did you ever go? Erm-
Yeah we went to **anon**- from junior school. But at grammar school
there was no swimming at all was there. Well my grandad wouldn’t allow
me to go in the scouts. He didn’t believe in it. And grandad’s word
was gospel. He said it’s like Hitler youth. He thought it was an army
for kids. But being **anon** he wanted to be very, very English and
tow the line. So Sundays we weren’t allowed to play out. We were not
forced but highly encouraged to go to church. So eventually I joined
the church choir at about the age of seven or eight. So that meant you
soon got promotion cos there weren’t many boys in the choir. I think
there were four of us. You soon got promotion to alter boy. And then
after confirmation you had to go to the early morning mass. You took
it in turns at going to eight o’clock or nine o’clock. Then you were
singing at eleven o’clock mattins. You had to go to Sunday school at
two o’clock . And then six thirty evensong. So busy day. So you didn’t
have- really have time to play out on a EOS Ah. Well the- the- the
choir was the undoing of the church in many ways. Because we got a
little bit beyond our station. We started singing very high brow stuff
like- Handel’s Messiah and- we had to have erm choral communion every
first Sunday in the month. And the congregation got a bit fed up with
it. Cause it wasn’t the sort of stuff where you could join in the
chorus EOS And the c- congregation dwindled until there were more
people in the choir than in the congregation. And the erm th- the
vicar wasn’t very dynamic and his wife was always a little bit tipsy.
She used to come in and stagger down the aisle half way- half way
through the service. Her hair all over the place . So they knocked it
down. And erm the school still remains **anon** EOS You know where I
mean? On one side on the- Yeah the little school house there. Erm
that’s up for sale. The church has gone. Yeah the church was the other
side of the school. That’s been flattened. My sister got married
there. Erm I think she was the last one ever to get married there.
Erm- Yeah so I was an usher at that wedding and I was a very poor
student EOS And I couldn’t possibly have worn me best suit cos it
didn’t look very best at all. So I went to C and A and all I could
afford was one that was five pounds fifteen shillings. It looked
really smart and it lasted for the wedding. And then about a week
later I was out in the rain with it and it’s like just falling EOS It
was. It was glued. It wasn’t stitched. So it was an expensive suit
really considering I only wore it twice- before I had to throw it
away.Yeah. Can you just count to three please. Yeah. Ok that’s great. When
you’re ready. Ah- oh no. Oh no . Do you want me to- I can get you some
if you like. Where are the glasses? Erm twenty one minutes. Waste of
money. Was the team good? Is that when it was the Curzon? Mm. I- my
dad’s told me about it. Oh is that why? Oh I didn’t know that. I’ve
seen a picture of- mm. Busy day .**anon** from Mercedes Benz.One two three. Well do you r- . Can you switch off if you don’t think
it’s right? We were both born up in **anon** in Salford. Is that the-
Erm you lived across- we- And I- I lived with my grandma and mum and
dad. Erm and she had what called then a corner shop- which s- it sold
everything. Bread and milk and erm we lived with her she’d just lost
her husband and bought this shop and erm my dad was a and decorator
and had a lot of out of work. And he used to get three- he- He didn’t
then. And he used to get three pounds a week- to keep us all and he
used to give it my grandma. And in return he used to get a couple of
packets of cigarettes. So erm you lived across. Erm and during the
war, just after the war she used to put cigarettes counter for you
didn’t she? But erm I didn’t have any brothers and sisters. But there
were lots and lots of children. And erm we used to play outside on the
erm pavement. There were no It was just erm streets in **anon**. And
erm we used to chalk the flags play hop-scotch and erm play ball
against the wall. And erm hide and peoples’ doors and I have been
known to knock on doors and run away. And I got a good smack off my
mother for doing that because she And erm we used to erm- we never
went far away from where we lived everywhere was very safe. There was
no- no erm hint of any people- doing wrong things to children. There
was nothing like that. Where I lived anyway. Erm as I say my grandma
had a shop. Erm I can remember bread being four pence and milk being
four pence same time. And erm she used to have this machine where she
cut all up by hand with a machine that you turned a handle. And she
had loads sweets in one window and I was not allowed to touch them-
unless I asked her could I have some. Now I was allowed but if I was
taking any I got another smack off me mother across my legs. all the
way round. And stone the back steps- with a- a brown stone or a cream
stone. And while I was doing it I was told to do **anon** next door so
I had to do those as well. And erm what about you? What did you do?
When you were young. What did you play? Which was horrible surface. It
was like cinders. But what- also what did you used to do? You used to
go on the hills at **anon** which was near **anon** prison. And what
did you used to do there? You used to go swimming in the- horrible
dirty filthy water. Terrible when you think of it. I mean I wasn’t
allowed. I didn’t know this went on until we started to go out as erm
w- when I was about fifteen or sixteen. Keith **anon** used to mend my
bike and I used to go for chips for all the erm- boys and girls that
were all round on the corner there. But m- us best or funniest memory
was during the war and erm we used w- we had a back yard and it had a
little garden ine itwith a beautiful tree in it. The EOS So we did
have a bit of a- a little bit of garden but this brick- they came and
built these brick shelters. I can’t remember w- w- how- the shelter
being EOS But my dad made it very nice inside with beds and we had erm
some kind of a light in there and erm my grandma would never ever come
down when the air raids went. And it was very frightening- and it
must’ve been very frightening for them but I was only nine, And it- to
me it was a big adventure. And one night my dad was a- an ARP warden
like you see on erm Dad’s EOS And erm one night they dropped all these
incendiary bombs on this pitch at the back of our house. My dad
dragged the dustbin out which in those days they were metal EOS He
dragged it outside and he said ‘come on Brenda **anon** and help me
with water because w- we’re going to have to put all these fires out’.
And I was running backwards and forwards and passing him all this
water. And erm we put the light on. And I said to him ‘daddy this
water’s not going- there’s no water in unfortunately in the- so it- to
me it’s very funny this. We were dashing backwards and forwards with
this buckets of water and was a big hole in the dustbin. So as fast as
we were p- putting the water in EOS So that to me is a- a long- it’s-
I mean it’s a long time ago and I and it was very funny. And erm when
these bombs these incendiary bombs dropped they dropped outside a lamp
post. You used to have big lamp posts in those days. I what- what were
those lamp posts erm- And erm m- I’ve never seen my grandma come down
the stairs as quick. She’d never ever got up. She used to stay in bed.
But she was down EOS And one night me mother came out and she’d got
the budgie on her EOS So she had to t- and I said m- I used to call
her mammy ‘mammy’. The- forget what the bird was called. ‘So and so’s
on your head’. Sh- She turned quickly back and went you went back in
the house so that was another funny memory. And erm- about parents-
But as I say we were children. It was an adventure to us. But can you
imagine if it happened now. I’d be absolutely- frightened to death.
You would. It- it would be a very frightening experience cos my mother
was a very nervous lady. And she must’ve been absolutely frightened to
death. Well I never went in. My mother wouldn’t go in there so- Yeah
they built these brick- They were very strong brick. I meant there
were different types of EOS My auntie who lived in Urmston she had one
and it was called a Morrison and it was like a big cage. Just like a
big cage. A Morrison. And erm she used to have a lovely- a lovely
embroidered cloth on it- and flowers. And if the sirens went she used
to go under there with They had no children. Erm and then there were
the Anderson ones with in the garden. You used to go down into those.
But erm m- there was w- called a blitz. Erm it was a christmas blitz
EOS Nineteen forty- forty one. And my grandparents lived in **anon**
which in- still in Salford. And when I think of it now they wouldn’t
have child but I was ten and my mother put me on the bus where we
lived- to go and see- ‘go and see if your grandma’s alright.’ And I
went on my own you EOS it would be unheard of now wouldn’t it? And erm
when I got there the street had been bombed- and all the houses the
curtains the windows were all blown out. And I stood at the top of
this street and I cried. And this man came to me and he said ‘what’s
the matter?’ and I said to see my grandma and look at the house’. He
said ‘don’t worry I’ll They’ve taken them to th- what they called a
rest centre and it was in a church. And he took me there. Now in this
day and age I didn’t know the man. Well you know y- when you think.
Erm there was no- there was none of that fear. I do really think so.
Yes you did. Oh yes. I went to **anon** school. Was- yeah- I went to-
I went to **anon** School. Before that I went to **anon** School and
my mother used to take me and bring me home four times a EOS She used
to take me in the morning. Come home. Come for me at lunchtime. We
used to go through a- and a park called **anon** Park which is still
there. Take me back. Then come for me back again in the EOS And then I
went to **anon** School EOS and I used to walk there e- but if me
mother could afford it I used to go on the bus. And it was a g- a long
way from where I lived. So erm that school isn’t there anymore
**anon** School. It was called Bella Vista because it was the **anon**
consul at one time. And it was a beautiful house. It was really
lovely. So erm and what do you remember from your first day at school?
I cried and cried- and the Headmistress was called **anon** and she
said to my mother ‘leave her, she’ll be alright’ and I sat at **anon**
side on a chair for EOS And she said to me mother ‘she’ll get fed up
before I will’. So that was- I hated it and I was very upset and
eventually **anon**- I got very friendly with her and she eventually
erm persuaded me to go into the classroom . No I never got into
trouble at school. I was quite a good child I EOS That alright? Is
that ok? No thank you EOS They’ve got ten eight hundred and thirty
four pound vouchers to give out. So I don’t- oh, they’re always
sending me- You had a lot of brothers and sisters. I was an only
child. Well if you had a friend that was a car- that had a car it was
absolutely marvellous. K: Well he had a car and erm and erm he- he
said ‘save your- save your spends up and I’ll take you erm away for a
week’. And he did and we w- went to Wales and when I was sat at- I can
see myself now sat in that car. And I- I was hoping all my friends
could see me EOS Well I went to Blackpool once a year for a week. And
what you did it was a- I forget what they called it. It wasn’t self-
catering but you bought the food and the person that you were staying
with erm she cooked it for you. I don’t know what they called it but
th- they did a lot of that in those days and that street it’s **anon**
or **anon**. It’s still there in Blackpool and we went once a week-
erm once a year for a week. can I go- move onto that one? Yeah. Oh I
did get hurt while- when I was playing as a child. Like Keith **anon**
said erm I fell on this what we called a rec. We called it the rec
didn’t we? I- I- It was short for recreation ground EOS but we called
it the rec and I fell on there. Ooh and I had terrible knees. They
were awful- and we’d gone to- my mother had bound them up and we’d
gone to visit me grandma who was a- she was a lovely lady and they
lived in **anon**. And she said ‘what’s she done?’ and my mother told
her and she looked at it and she said ‘get those bandages off’ because
they’d all pussed EOS She said erm ‘let it- let- get the air to them’.
I can always remember it and within a- a day they’d- they’d all dried
up. So EOS I’ve always remembered that ever since . Your home town.
Shall we go onto home town? Do you want me to talk or- are you going
to say where were your parents from? from **anon**, from **anon**.
They made the big steam trains you know. My interests when I was a
child, I’ve just seen that there, erm was music. I learned to play the
piano. And erm I- I loved music in any- any form really. And I still
do. I still sing and erm we have a music group at church but of course
that’s- i- that’s lo- current at the moment but me parents, my father
was born in **anon** and my mother was born in erm- down erm in
Salford in **anon**. So erm I don’t know why me- me father came to
live in Salford but erm my mother’s never been anywhere- no she was
born here. And erm I’ve got a picture of her when she was a little
girl. So she’d- she was born in nineteen hundred and two so it’s quite
and old EOS And if you ever want any old pictures I’ve got them. Erm-
erm we didn’t move house at all. Erm we went to live in that shop as I
say with my grandma and the next move we made was when she died and
they sold the house, my mother and father, and we went to live in
**anon**. We were still in Salford and erm Keith **anon** was in the
army weren’t y- nati- doing his national sh- service. And erm we
married from the house in **anon** didn’t we. Yes he was in the army.
and I was twenty one. And y- Keith **anon** was twenty two when we got
married. Mm. And that’s when I came up to **anon** from **anon** with
a friend who was looking at some houses erm on the front there, near
**anon**. They were building those semis r- just round the corner when
you go towards the Trafford Centre. There’s some semis there- and erm
**anon** and she went to look at those and then we came to look at
these on **anon** and I liked these. No, no that was after. That was
after. No I brought erm I can’t remember her name now. No you weren’t
very friendly with her but then- I saw these and went back home and
told Keith **anon** and that’s- that’s when we came to live in
**anon**. In this house in **anon**. Yeah. No one thousand six hundred
and fifty pounds. Sixteen hundred and fifty. Eh. It’s amazing isn’t
it? But we brought a friend with us who was my son- my eldest son’s
godfather and they lived in **anon**. And he was a very astute man and
a very good man and a- we really were very fond of him. And he came
with us to look at them and my dad was very much against us buying it.
He said ‘you’ve got a milstone round your neck’. That’s what he said.
we were very, very happy. And erm my mother- and he- my mother thought
the world of Keith **anon** and he thought the world of her. Erm but
erm **anon** this friend of ours came to talk me dad round to say that
he had bought his house and it was three hundred and forty EOS And
that was a milstone round their neck but it wasn’t anymore. And he
said eventually it will be beneficial to them. So that’s- he talked my
dad round and- But we just liked these houses. We thought they were
absolutely lovely and erm m- m- what it- what was it we hadn’t got
money for? Erm- and my dad lent us the twenty five pounds. And by the
Keith **anon** wasn’t a mechanic. He was working for me father who was
a painter and decorator and you had to have e- eleven pounds a week
wages. They wouldn’t take the wife then. It was just the husband it-
you know if you were working that didn’t matter. And he was earning
ten and me- my dad said to Keith **anon** ‘well tell them you’re
earning eleven but I can’t afford to give you that’. But when you
think of those figures. But you see it just- it goes on and on. I
meant when- when you get older you’ll think well fancy those prices
that we paid then. So erm yeah. Erm in your opinion how has the
community changed in recent years? Well I think it changed tr-
tremendously. Tremendously. There’s a lot of terrible things happen
now that I don’t think did happen then. Children are- are not safe
anymore like they used to be. and everything is so expensive to take
them anywhere. I mean my son has just been away with four and he said
when you go in a- just for a coffee. It’s six coff- well five coffees
or five drinks. And it’s so expensive isn’t it. But erm everything
has- has really gone up in price. In the country. It was beautiful.
And we liked Urmston as it was. But I mean now I think they’ve just
made a mess of it. because it’s part finished and- and they’re not
saying- they’re saying until they- I think they- somebody said that
they’ve run out of money the developers. And erm- so it’s just a mess
I think. Yeah and they haven’t done. No. No. No they haven’t. And I
think they’re the ugliest looking things. We only said the other day
look at all that horrible wood. Where’s the design in that? And then
of course a build-up of erm- I’m not objecting to the Trafford Centre
but the Chill Factor and erm all these big things that keep going up.
It’s just lost it’s erm I don’t know, prettiness really. It used to be
a pretty village more or less Davyhulme. And I know things have got to
progress but I don’t- I hate all these great big things that are going
up. And erm I don’t know. Local people- We remember the- And it was
nice. It was a nice precinct that. But I do think there’s a lot of
community things happening now like erm the man that owns **anon**
that **anon**. Now f- I think it’s the third year now that he’s put
this community EOS sort of a carnival type thing hasn’t he. In the
grammar school gardens and I think- we went because my granddaughters
were dancing. They go to **anon**. And they were doing this dancing
group and we went to watch them and I just thought it was lovely. All
the people- local people all mingling with one another. And I really-
I r- it really uplifted me to see them all having a good time and
there was no trouble. Erm and I think the community spirit here is
better and hope it will EOS Erm the carnival on Saturday- there’s the
carnival on Saturday and for the first time there’s erm an ecumenical
church tent being EOS And they’re giving free teas and cakes. In fact
we’re involved with EOS And it’s the first time they’ve done that and
erm hope- hopefully well they will be telling people all about the
things that go on in all the churches. Hopefully we might get a few
more people to come. But it’s still a community thing and I think-
it’s a good thing for the community EOS Yeah and erm there’s not
really- when you look at the television and see all the horrible
things that happen in other towns. I don’t know I’ve never heard of
anything horrible - happening in Urmston at night. So I just hope that
erm- there’s- I think there’s quite a long of thing to ha- to do in
this community if you’re willing to erm- you know different erm- erm
what- what can I call them, different groups. So you needn’t be bored.
There’s lots to do really. If you go out and look for it. What’s your-
do you agree with me? You see- we’re very involved in church so I’ve
always got something to do. I mean I’m going out tonight. No I’m going
out tomorrow and erm going out next week all the meetings start so
I’ll be out about three nights a week which is erm- is very good. I
think it’s very sad that erm TJ Hughes has gone from Stretford. I
think it’ll be a- make a big difference to Stretford erm- erm town
centre. Erm cos I like- I like that erm shopping precinct. It’s
pleasant and it’s warm and- erm it’s somewhere for people to meet. I
don’t know what’s going to happen there. Did you get into trouble? I
didn’t- I was perfect EOS Yeah well I think there again- I think it’s
gone from the sublime to EOS Because I think it’s digusting now that
children have got no respect- for policemen and really a lot of them
have not got any respect for EOS And they try and blame everybody bar
the parents. Oh that was terrible. Well what’s uplifted me **anon**
was the m- the all those young people going in and cleaning up. I
thought that was wonderful EOS And some of them looked- I thought
golly you’d- You know so you can’t tell by how people look. But I do
think it’s erm you know that being allowed to throw stones at
policemen. I was frightened to death of policemen. I- that was silly
but I’d rather it be like that- than like it is now. I mean policemen
are there to erm to keep- to protect people- and the public. And they
get a terrible lot of bad pub- publicity. And I know maybe there are
some sadistic policemen but most of them are very good and decent men.
And erm I just think it’s awful that children should be taught to have
more respect. Erm and I still blame the parents for a lot of these
children. And I think a lot of these children as well are from broken
homes and they’re living in erm social erm- erm they’re- they’re under
the care of the erm- Trafford. And erm I’ve heard reports that they
just run wild and you’re not allowed to touch them. You’re not- if-
they know that if you touch them they can report you. And I mean I
used to get lots of smacks off my mother and it never did me any harm
at all. And erm I can always remember when I was- my mother had just
given me a good hiding and she’d gone into the kitchen and I walked
behind her and pulled my tongue out. And she turned round and I got
another one. And I said ‘what was that for?’ ‘because’ she said
‘you’ve just pulled your tongue out haven’t you?’. And years after I
said ‘how did you know?’. She said ‘I just knew you were going to do
that’. But we end- we were always the best of friends. Really good
pals.One two three. Erm yeah th- that’s fine. Oh no that’s fine. Erm you
can start now- Whenever you’re ready. Thank you. Yeah that’s fine. Oh
was it? Oh no . When you know what’s going on. Yeah that’s fine. Don’t
worry. Telephone conversation omitted EOS Sounds a bit odd. Yeah you
can do yeah. In- in th- Yeah. It is. Yeah it does. Yeah I think they
have. I think they expected more people to erm buy those apartments-
in the centre, but then- No I haven’t EOS No of course it doesn’t. I
know. The riots were terrible weren’t they. No you’re right. Erm I can
stop that- this now if-Do you want my name? Go on then. You start then dear. What’s her f- I
lived across the f- there was a football pitch. I lived at one end EOS
He- he worked for himself. He had his own business. Oh no he didn’t
EOS I lived across yes- across the pitch. I- I didn’t smoke then but I
erm- I worked as a erm motor mechanic and the lads there, there was
quite a lot of them smoked and you couldn’t get because they were
under the counter. ‘Would you go and ask your girlfriend’s grandma’ .
Erm would she let us have some cigarettes. Which she used to like- let
us have a few packets now and again. Not like there is today. She was
a very strict- yeah. B: And it never ever did me any harm. Erm and I
did have to help out in because we used to stone the steps. We used to
stone the step of the stone the window ledges of the house- The back
yard yeah. What did I do? Well I used to pla- play a lot of football.
I used to love football and of course facing the house was this big
EOS int- in- incidentally- it wasn’t- I was a cinder pitch really.
When you fell down it- it used to take part of your knee cap off. So
constant- constantly you had black marks on your knees cinders had
gone in. And erm but I used to love playing football and erm I used to
also EOS Swimming in these- When you think about it yes. There was
they were like erm they were like big clay pits filled with water and
we used to go swimming in there. I’d- Many a time I’d cut my foot, my
legs because there was broken bottle- There was old prams in there.
When I think about it now. All the- all the- Oh erm th- what’s- the
elderber- and they hit erm- **anon** prison that night. Putting the
water in it was running out. They used to be gas. Well they were, they
were ga- Erm what I used to do was erm when I think about it now I
never let my sons do that. But erm I used to erm when the air raids
were EOS I used to go out with a- a bucket and a pair of coal tongs
and I’d be picking shrapnel up. You’d- you’d- you’d be s- listening
ye- and you’d hear it going down the road. And you could see it was
white hot. When I think that really that my parents let me go out-
picking the sh- the shrapnel- the pieces of shrapnel up. I had buckets
and buckets of it. And we used to swap it with one another you know.
It- it- if it had German erm- erm- emblem on you used to erm swap it
for something else. Incendiary bombs had the German mark on. Erm I- I
th- I thought it was great- Terrified yeah. But on this football pitch
facing they dug it all up and put the biggest air raid shelter you’ve
ever seen on the ground. Yeah. And we used to go in there. It- it was
terrible. It was t- Oh the- the smell. But we- we had a- one built in
the back erm- the back yard. A- anderson ones. They- Oh that was the
Morrison yes. Yes that was the biggest . I think you were safer then
than you are today. Y- you never heard of people being murdered and
stabbed and- and like I say you used- you used- you used to t- travel
quite a way on your own EOS young. Going to school. Which is quite a
way from- It was a long way yes. We- talking about holidays we erm w-
never had any holidays. Th- th- the erm- oh switch it off. No I- I
never had- I never went on holiday. The only holiday I’ve ever had
was- I- I did. Yes I had erm four brothers and one sister. And erm-
but we never had holidays. Only days out to Blackpool. But my- one of
my brothers- I had four half b- brothers. Step brothers. And erm he-
he was a mechanic and erm he- he- he used to do quite well and he said
‘if you save your spends up’ which was about in today’s money about
five p a week- erm ‘you can come away with me’ and he had a m- a car
which in the- those days was fantastic you know. If somebody had a
motorcar- going away on holiday. And that was about the best holiday I
ever had then- as- as child cos I never went away again after that.
Like I say we used to go, now and again they’d take us to Blackpool on
the train. For a day. But erm that was it. Th- th- they- c- cooked it
for you yeah. Yeah th- it was a- yeah we called it a rec. I always
had- Yeah go on I’ll- Oh parents from. Well erm my parents erm my
father worked at EOS Oh my- my- m- m- my erm mother’s family originate
from **anon**. That’s where erm- that’s where they were erm born. But
my father Erm, **anon** which was at Gorton. **anon** were locomotive
engineers and he used to cy- Steam trains and that. And he used to erm
cycle from erm **anon** all the way to Gorton every- and back again
which is a heck of a way . Like I say in- in regards to toys I’ve had
very, very little toys. But my father had some cowboys and indians
made. He- he g- he got the erm the chaps at work th- that make the erm
moulds in- they made these erm moulds for soldiers and cowboys and he-
he made- he made them out of solid lead. When you think now, I used t-
they weren’t painted when- and I got them for Christmas and when I
think I used to play with lead soldiers . You know which is really
harmful for you. But that was the only erm toys I had and I had them
for years I was playing with those. Well I was in the army. Because
erm- erm then i- it was a s- sergeant said to me- he said- I told him
that I was en- engaged- to be married when I came out of the army. He
said ‘well really you’d be better marrying because you’ll get marriage
allowance’. So w- we arranged didn’t we- I’d been in the army about-
So we did erm get married- and erm and of course Brenda **anon** got
the erm- the erm marriage allowance and saved it up and we had a nice
little nest egg EOS when- when I came out. No we- we brought them up
didn’t we and y- your father’s- Fifty five years ago. And we- we paid
one thousand eight hundred and fifty pounds. Oh one thousand six
hundred and fifty pounds for it. But we were very happy living with
your parents. They had that big house in **anon** and- And that was-
Well the thing was you could rent a house then. You could rent houses.
There was- there was plenty to rent. I mean not like n- not like
today. Oh the erm- we didn’t have the money for the erm the rest of
the money for the EOS It was a hundred pound deposit. We’d paid forty
but there was sixty outstanding and w- we k- kept coming round and
having a look and it’s- once they got the roof on they wanted the
balance. And I thought- the came and they’d got the roof on. And I was
earning ten pounds. And he- he lent us the money for the erm- You
can’t afford to take your eyes off them can you. The most important
changes have taken place in your town. Well when we came round here
from erm- from **anon** we thought we were coming to live in the
country- It was so quiet- You could park anywhere in Urmston and erm-
but now I think it’s- It- well w- we did yeah. but we remember the
first erm- shopping centre being built in Urmston. The precinct there.
It was nice before. It- no it was nice before that they did that I
thought. It was quite quaint. I’ve s- I’ve got loads of pictures of
that. How it used to be . But erm- Gets people together yeah. Yeah I
li- I- Yes I d- Mm. Right . Did you ever get into trouble at school?
Going back a bit now aren’t EOS Does it matter? No it doesn’t matter?
Yep . Yeah- oh no you didn’t, no. Hey we- we used to c- I went to
**anon** School first and from there I went to **anon** school,
**anon**. And on the way home from when we were EOS erm **anon** the
erm- we used to pass this house that had a cherry tree hanging over
the wall. And ev- everyday you passed it seemed to get redder and
redder these cherries and me and my friends one day we thought I think
we’ll have some of those . And we climbed on the wall and just pulled
a little bunch down and we both had one each. And they were horrible.
But we didn’t- unknown to us there was policeman behind us who EOS and
took us back to school. And erm the next morning we had to come out in
front of the- all the assembly and the pair of us were brought out to
the front and- and the teacher erm- the teacher said- the Headteacher
said I’d have- we’d have to go to his room after and of course we
were- our heads down and we both got the cane on both hands. And when
we used to walk past that house with those cherry EOS we used to have
our hands in our pockets . Yes you’re not allowed to touch- Yeah. That
was brilliant. Oh yes. Y- To protect the- protect the public. Yeah th-
Yes it’s sad really. I-One, two, three, four, five. Well, it was a- Yeah, there’s lots of
restaurants in Urmston and there’s parks for the kids. And, well
you’ve got the Trafford centre anyway, that’s not so far away, haven’t
you? So I think everything you need really is there. You got the
laserquest and all that business, haven’t you? that you can go to. No
I’m going to me mum’s. Right, Ok, so, talking about childhood, we both
grew up only really five minutes walk away from each other. So the
sort of things that we used to do are probably quite similar. Except,
that, for the first- up until being the- six I lived erm in **anon**
which was different. Because- different to you. Because we were- there
were so many of us really cos I was- come from a family of five
children, that instead of playing out with friends we tended not
really to- to want to go outside, cos there was always gonna be one of
us to play with. So we’d always play in the back yard, it was always
ball games. Against the wall generally. Things like, we used to have a
game called ‘donkey’ which was throwing a ball against a wall and
jumping over it. Which- Which kept us amused for hours. You know,
rounders, there was always enough of us to have a team. So we didn’t
really need other people, whereas I know that you were always out with
lots of other friends. But you used to play making like go-karts and
things like that, And what was- can you think of anything that was
very funny that happened to you when you were young? yeah see we never
did anything like that but we used to get, erm- ma- mind you we were
in trouble for it. We got mattress going down the stairs. Because we
were always in- s- sort of in the house. Or outside, so we would
always be messing about inside really. Playing hide and seek, just
things like that EOS Yeah right whereas we just used to play
imaginative games as well, cos we were always dressed up, erm, in me
mum’s clothes EOS Because I always, always wanted long hair. And my
mum used to always keep our hair very short. And one day somebody said
to me- called me, ‘sonny.’ And from then on I always wanted to pretend
I had long hair. So I used to wear tights on my head, with bows on the
EOS Did you ever get hurt while playing when you were a kid? Once I- I
broke- broke my arm. And that was- well it wasn’t broke actually it
was erm, sort of badly bruised but it was like a crack or something, I
don’t know in the bone. But it wasn’t particularly- it wasn’t
definitely broken. But anyway it was because me and **anon** my sister
were waiting for my other sister **anon** to come out of school. And
there was a moat running round the side- it- well it was called the
moat, erm, out- outside of the school. Erm I think it was all to do
really with- that they were knocking down a lot of erm houses near
where we lived. Erm, erm and there was like bricks and things
everywhere. And it was just like a trench, I think that was what it
was. But we used to call it the moat. And of course I was like trying
to walk along the side of it and I fell in EOS And erm- and erm
**anon** had to come and get me out. Take me to erm, to hospital. So
that was the worst thing that happened to me. Yeah I mean, one of the
dangerous things that we used to do, I mean thinking about it now was
going into these houses, cos they were derelict houses. So they were
only like half standing. And there’s p- some houses actually had a
staircase that you would still be able to walk up, even though there
was no floor. Or half a floor at the top. And on the way home from
school sometimes we would always go in these houses, erm, and sort of
try and have a bit of an, you know, investigate what’s going on. But
really when I think about it, it’s just so dangerous. But I didn’t
know anybody who- even though- I mean we all used to play in these-
erm these houses all on- the- the Crofts, they used to be called. And
that would be like where a house was completely EOS And so all’s what
was left was like bricks on the floor, and glass and things. Erm but I
mean everybody used to cut across crofts. Adults used to, you know it
wasn’t just the kids. And there used to be like pass- path- pathways
that went through because it was a shortcut to wherever you lived. Erm
and I fell over there ones and I got a scar where I actually fell on
some glass. but erm that’s how it was and then everybody moved to sort
of like, certain areas in Manchester. And it just so happened that
**anon**, a lot of the community was moved to **anon**, and that was
when we moved- To **anon** which was round the corner from where you
are. But some were moved to- I think there’s Wythenshawe, wasn’t it?
And erm so there was a big new estate right up in Northern Manchester,
it was a Hattersley. And-. Which was absolutely- it was lovely when it
was very first done. But now it’s s- it’s just so rough up there,
isn’t it? The estate EOS And that was where- wasn’t that where Myra
Hindley was and Ian Brady? So that would have been earlier. Yeah,
because I’m talking about sixt- sixty eight, something like that. So
there was er- so that- can you remember a good story that your parents
or grandparents used to tell you? Eh, well my- well my mum still
telling stories now. That’s just to make things- she likes to
embroider things. but tells a good yarn EOS I remember my mum te-
still tells the story of when she went back to Belfast and she was
erm- during the war and they were moved from Manchester back over to
Belfast cos of the bombing in Manchester and she thought it was really
exciting when you were given a- a Mae West and a whistle, in case the
submarines sank your-your ship and she- Yeah I used to like stories
that me mum told me because me mum is- was really quite a naughty
girl, and erm- but she used to make me laugh. Because she was tell-
cos her dad was erm, a Welsh Baptist preacher. And she used to sit in
the back, in the pew that was for the family whittling her name in the
wood . Which isn’t a good thing, and if he only knew, he’d have gone
EOS So that’s funny. No, whereas we didn’t really- me- cos me dad died
when er I was only two, and so me mum didn’t have a lot of money, she
went to work, back to work. And so in school holidays, we used to get
sent to erm my Gran’s house, who lived in Wales, or erm, I used to go
to an Auntie’s who lived in erm well first of all Wales and then on to
Blackpool. Erm so we would always be together. And we used to just go
on the beach. All of us, or- go on the mountains and just run around
and just go wild really. **anon** gran used to give us a good
breakfast and say she didn’t want to see us back again till teatime.
And we didn;t want to go back till tea. So that was always good times.
Erm that’s- I don’t remember primary school them being weird and
wonderful. They were actually quite sweet. There was one who was a bit
strange called **anon**, who used to have a double row of teeth at the
bottom. Erm like EOS I don’t really know why but she did. erm, she was
very scary, real old-school erm- little glasses on the end of her
nose. She looked like something like a caricature of erm a little old
fashioned teacher, with a bun, erm, but apart form that I- I think the
primary school was- they were really quite sweet but at secondary
school they- well most of them were nuns. Erm cos I went to **anon**,
so, erm, and I think the- I still think it’s quite a strange thing to
just you know, lock yourself away as a woman, and just become a
teacher, because I don’t really think that erm they would know much
about life. And they- they- even though they would know their subject,
I think sometimes they were at a loss to deal with teenage girls, erm
EOS and any problems that anybody might have. You know so erm, I think
sometimes the- they weren’t very EOS Or they didn’t really have a lot
to say other than their subjects. Erm so I thought that was quite
strange. And the- the, erm, head teacher was a nun and the deputy head
teacher was a nun and the deputy head teacher, **anon** used to just
send fear into everybody’s hearts. And erm- just used to- but erm the
punishments weren’t ever shouting at, it was all to do with erm- it
was all to do with church. I used to have to go and pray for
forgiveness quite a few times. What sorts of things did you like at
school? To do, extra activities. I used to like erm, hockey, I was erm
quite sort of feisty I was very- I was quite little really erm for a
long time and- but I was quite EOS and I used to just love going
whooshing up and down the fields, cos it was the one thing that I
actually thought that I was pretty good at. I don’t know if I was good
but I used to feel I was good at it, and erm- I don’t think they
expected- perhaps they didn’t see me coming, I don’t know but I used
to manage to get a few goals in. So it was okay. And I loved drama, I
liked music. I still like music now, I still like music and I still
like drama. And I just like to- I like to- to escape from er- it w- it
was all a bit humdrum erm and I used to like all the colours and I
used to get involved in the lighting and things like that. And I
thought that was erm, that was interesting. No I remember our drama
teacher, **anon** who was my absolute favourite teacher. And the
reason why I liked her was because she just- she was all perfume and
scarves, and erm curly hair, and she was very, very pretty, and was
very, very loud, and used to laugh like mad at everything people said.
But erm she was lovely and she was the one who said that I should
really go to some sort of drama school. And that- but of course me mum
looked into it and she didn’t have the money to send me. So she
looked- she wrote a letter to the council to see if they would give y-
me some sort of grant EOS but nothing ever came of it. So that- you
know I- I think I always felt a bit let down by that, cos I felt that
that was the way that I would have liked to have gone. And I think
it’s quite nice in a way that erm my niece is- **anon** is erm going
in that direction. It’s almost like sort of next step, Yeah I do, er
don’t remember- there’s- it’s- it’s sort of snatches really that I
remember of **anon** really. Erm but I remember being very excited
when we came to **anon**. And we came to see the house for the first
time and it was dark, it must been in the winter, because it was EOS
yeah because it was just sort of after tea time, and it was dark. And
we’d only ever had a back yard. And then we had the entry that ran
down the side of the house and that was where we used to play. There
was nothing wrong with it, it was just you know. That was just where
we used to play outside. And erm it had this huge big garden. And the
garden was all a bit sort of overgrown and things and er I went out,
and even though it was dark I just wanted to- and as I was walking
along the grass I was doing steps to see how many steps it would take
me to get to the fence. And it just seemed like forever. Was just huge
EOS erm, and I was really excited because erm me mum said she’d get me
a- a swing, erm, which me uncle made cos everything was made, and er-
he made me this swing, that I used to spend hours on. So I just
thought it was just huge, huge great big house, when in actual fact it
wasn’t, it’s just that that’s how it felt. mm, yeah he did. And er the
other thing that erm my uncle made me was erm, a wendy house in the
back garden, erm which I really, really liked. And I used to have
little teacups and things like that. So basically then- but as I got
older erm that was when the first time really that I started actually
going- playing outside and going to see friends. Cos I must’ve been
then- well when I was allowed t- to play out, maybe about twelve. So I
never had it when I was younger cos that was just when we were playing
with EOS everybody who was in the house. Erm but then we used to sort
of g- go out then because it was like four years between me and my
next sister. So that would mean that if I was about eleven, **anon**
was about fifteen, and she was obviously EOS not then wanting to play
EOS hide and seek with me. So er- so that’s when we first started
going EOS Roller skates and things like that. But I think that’s
probably because a lot of people had moved in as EOS Because to move
in- to get a council house you generally had children, didn’t you?
Otherwise you might have been moved into a flat. So I think it’s when
they were moving whole communities that that’s where we were all- sort
of seemed to be sort of similar age groups EOS The families seemed to
have children sim- similar ages. And it seems funny that- I mean the
community- I mean **anon**, what you looking at, say about four miles
away? yeah, and the whole- because whole communities moved at once,
some of our neighbours that were actually on our street- cos it was a
bit of a- quite a large Irish community, wasn’t it in **anon**? It was
erm- and some of our neighbours, who lived there, actually still live-
you know, in **anon** now. Sort of round the corner cos we all sort of
moved en masse. So erm- it seems funny that although my mum has moved
away, you know she went from **anon** to **anon** and then on- on from
there. That when she comes back to this area, that she’s still bumping
into old EOS Original neighbours from **anon**. and also- it was
rubbish when you- when you think about it, you were actually living in
rubble. Well you weren’t your house was in the middle maybe of - And
then the next road had been flattened. So you know it wasn’t good
conditions t- to live in. So- and me mum used to say and I know this
wasn’t very nice and I don’t remember it as a- as a child, but my mum
used to say that there was lots of erm mice EOS erm and I suppose that
maybe there would be. So- what do you think- er have changed or what
important changes have taken place in our town? Well I suppose
thinking about it, one of the major changes is the Trafford centre.
Isn’t it? erm, I actually think EOS Yeah, I mean really it’s- I- and I
mean a lot of people don’t like it, I don’t really know why because I
just think it’s erm- it’s brought a lot of work into the area. Erm
people are coming in, so you’ve got money that’s coming in- into EOS
It’s er ideal for- for us, I mean I just love the fact that it’s round
the corner. Er you’ve got the pictures, you’ve got the restaurants, so
I can’t really see a problem with it at all. Lots of different- yeah.
Oh God, I did on Saturday. . yeah I do too. Yeah I mean I know it’s
not a finished thing yet but one of the- it- it’s- it’s good that
they’re keeping the- the small shops as well. Because like- well we’ve
got photographs of I don’t know, what a hundred years ago? And it
doesn’t- really there’s parts of it that you would still EOS As being
Urmston now and I think that’s important. Because it- it’s part of the
history of the time EOS Yeah, but I think there is a community in
Urmston. Erm it think that they’ve got some good schools, which makes
people stay in the same EOS Erm they’ve got good secondary schools so
again, you’re moving from infant, junior to secondary school EOS
without the need to move, that some people do have to move around for
EOS good education for their children, whereas we’re lucky enough to
have EOS Erm and so that sort of makes a communities EOS spirits carry
on. Erm local events, such as that fiesta, Urmston fiesta but even so,
it’s still good. Wasn’t there an Urmston carnival? So you see, it’s
things like that, so they are still trying EOS and of course, you’ve
got the round table, you’ve got the rotary. Is it the round table or
the rotary club, I think it’s probably the same thing actually. Erm,
again that’s based in Urmston. So you’ve got that going on as well.
That, you now people going round. You’ve got lots of social clubs as
well. I mean I know we’ve not really- we don’t really go to them. But
you’ve got like the labour club. Which is the one up the road?
**anon** I don’t know if that’s labour or what. Right. Okay but you’ve
got the conservative club up here, you’ve got the one next to Urmston
grammar. So there’s a few places to go. But it’s- it’s funny to think
that erm- in Altrincham people seem to know Urmston. People come in to
Urmston to use the- you know to go to the restaurants. So even though
it’s a teeny tiny place, it’s almost- it’s still a place to come to.
Which is er quite unique I would say EOS and you wonder really whether
any local cinemas are going to stay. Cos there’s that many big cinemas
now, with all the different. You know erm facilities really to be able
to have so many films on at once, that it’s not likely. The what,
**anon**? Yes well they’ve got something like that in Manchester
haven’t they? The corner house. In his sweaty vest. Well, no I’ve got
four haven’t I? I’ve got one brother and three sisters. And did we get
along when we were kids? Generally, yeah EOS Yeah I think we did. Erm
**anon** was- we used to do as we were told with **anon** cos he was
always the babysitter, although he wasn’t the eldest, erm he was the
second eldest. But even **anon** who is the eldest used to do as she
was told from him. So- but apart from that- but he was never horrible,
he just used to erm- if we didn’t get the number right on united’s
football team, on the- . He used to shout . Erm I used to really look
forward to Saturday nights because that was when me mum and me uncle
use to go out. They used to go to bingo. And er they used to- that was
when we used to get our spends. So we always used to get some sweets.
and watch whatever we liked on the tv. And then we always used- they
used to come in about ten o’clock and although I was probably too
young then, I used to sort of pretend I used to join in but I don’t
really remember it so I’m sure I was up in bed before then. Erm but
they used to always scuttle up to bed about ten minutes before they
were due home, Do you think you were spoilt because you were the only
boy? Did you have to help out around the house? Cos you were spoilt
EOS No we used to- we used to have jobs. But we didn’t think- it
wasn’t sort of unfair. Erm mine wasn’t much of a job, cos I was the
little one. So mine was to put the milk bottles out after they’d been
washed. I know, it wasn’t difficult. But once-. Well once I got into
trouble because I went to take the milk bottles out and this was about
seven o’clock after dinner. And erm I was only EOS And I don’t know
what- I think I’ve heard something, some music or something like that.
And decided to go walking to see what the music was. Only I just
actually got lost. I was only little and erm I don’t remember much
about it. I just remember walking and walking and walking. And then
finally being picked up by the police. And the police brought me home.
And I can remember sitting in the police station sitting on top of a
counter, a big counter erm eating smarties. And I thought it was
fantastic. And then I came home in a police car. But I don’t really
remember- I think I was- must’ve been very young I’m sure I must’ve
only been about four or five. So even little, really young, I still
had a job to do which was the milk bottles EOS But even after that, we
just used to share it really. Because me mum used to work so our only
other job were things like we always used to erm- I used to vac- we
didn’t used to have a vac, we used to have erm, what are they called?
And the Ewbank- I used to have a- my job was to do that every night,
which was just the rugs really. C And erm **anon** job was to- oh no
that was **anon** job was to peel the spuds. I can’t remember what-
I’m sure **anon** used to get off scot- free. No, I’m sure she didn’t,
but anyway. So that was er- we all had a job each. And it was
generally to make the tea EOS for when me mum came home. And then me
mum used to finish it off EOS I mean the thing is, it’s- it’s qu- you
know like everyone now is like sort of, if they’ve got a big family
it’s all a big deal of how they gonna feed them and they need to be on
all sorts of benefits. But really, my mum used to just do big, cheap,
nutritious meals EOS that would put some people to shame I think now.
You know I mean great big- er we always used to have like a proper
meat and veg or erm if we were gonna have fish it was that smoked
finny haddock, cos it’s cheap. Or she used to make great big stews
always- it always used to be something like a casserole, or something
like that. Or the one thing that I used to love that she did was er
mince beef and onion pie. And she used to do this huge great big thing
and then we used to have that with new potatoes that came from a tin,
which is funny. Don’t know why she used to do that. But I think they
must have been cheap. But they were like little bullets, they were
horrible. erm, yeah but we always used to have this big minced beef
and onion pie, which was just lovely. so, er I think she did these ti-
those tinned potatoes EOS as like a treat really. But I d- never used
to like them. No we didn’t cos there were too many of us so- we
would’ve had to have all these tins. I remember when erm Vesta curries
first came in. And er **anon** and **anon** used to have them cos it
was like really EOS And er I used to just- the smell of curry was
really quite different. And I used to think he was so modern,
**anon**, you know, really hippy having this curry. Chow mein, that’s
the one **anon** used to have. And it had like crisps on the top, like
quavers. And she used to sizzle them in the chip pan. I just used to
think that was- but I didn’t ever think that I was grown up enough EOS
to have these, I think I used to think it was something, ‘when I’m a
teenager, I’m going to have a curry.’ EOS Like a bread base or
something. Like cheese on toast EOS No well it did sometimes for us
but we’d have these- I wonder where the hell she got those tinned
potatoes from? Because they were just there all the time. I can
remember when erm- I know it’s- well you wouldn’t even think it now,
but when yoghurts first came in. When it first came in, I mean you
know when it started getting EOS And er it was ski yoghurts, they were
the ones to have. And er me mum used to do a weekly shop. And as a
treat, like you would bring home a cream cake, it would be, ‘right
would you like a yoghurt? Which one would you like?’ EOS And I would
always have strawberry. And **anon** would always have EOS And I used
to think- I used to feel a bit sorry for her because clearly
strawberry was going to be the best. Tinned- yeah tinned. Tinned
pears, yeah. Well going back to these tinned potatoes, me uncle used
to bring home, and I think it’s from bingo, I’m not quite sure where
he got them from. And it was trays and trays of tins. Only they didn’t
have labels on them. Well they did but they were all white. So you
didn’t actually know what you were having. So you might have opened
it, hoping for some peaches and it would be a tin of carrots. Or
something like that . So sometimes- so then if you’d opened a couple
of tins of carrots, looking for your peaches, obviously that was what
your meal would have been the next day. Something with- and that’s how
we used to work it. No. Never used to have anything like that. Me mum
was a bit funny about sausages. Which is probably why I’m a bit funny
about them now, and she still doesn’t eat them. yeah, yeah, no, she-
she- We never had anything like that, not that we did anything that
was horrible or anything, the food we had was lovely but-. We never
had things like beefburgers or anything because we didn’t have a
fridge, that was the reason as well. Although I know those are tinned
EOS Cos erm we just used to keep everything in the pantry, which was
cold and then in the summer the milk used to be in big saucepans of
cold water. We used to just have to change the water, make it cold. It
used to work I don’t remember anything being- going off. No, cos it
was not really big supermarkets, was it, it was just like your local
shops really.Okay that’s fine, after you Roger **anon**. yeah, that’s right EOS do
you want to do something else?That’s the quickest one to five I’ve ever heard. What fun things are
there to do in your community? What would you say about that? What do
you like to do to have fun? You like to go for EOS cinema, it’s a
shame about the erm, **anon** cinema closing. Or is it? It was a bit
of an old flea pit, wasn’t it? I got a text today. I was- I got a text
today, from Orange. Inviting me to go out on EOS Mm I did. I didn’t
reply to it. But you’re going this Wednesday, aren’t you? Is it this
Wednesday or next Wednesday? Thought you were going with **anon**?
Thought you were going to the cinema with **anon**. Must have been a-
another woman I heard. Yeah I- I tended to play more with sort of
like, male friends. They weren’t- you didn’t really hang around with
girls until you got a little bit older. But er yeah and ours were like
ball games. We were erm- nothing hi- tech as today, obviously but er
do pretty much sport based games. yeah and then we used to go
swimming, things like that at the weekend. And- but majority like
sport based games, with l- not really involving anything erm that you
needed to buy, you tended to try and make it, or if your ball- ball
burst, you repaired it rather than just nipping out and buying another
one, cos we didn’t have the money, really just to replace something.
Y- you tended to make do with what EOS erm funny to who? To me or to
anybody else? Well, I- we used to go fishing and er throw people in-
in the water when you got a bit fed up and you couldn’t catch any
fish. mmm, no just naughty games really, wasn’t it? Like knocking on
doors was quite- and running away was quite common, or p- Well we
tended to be outside more than anything obviously, and the summers
always seemed better. Mind you saying that, we’re having a good one
this year. But we tended to be outside quite a lot. Which really got
you out of the- got you out of the like, from under your mum and dad’s
feet. And we used to erm go- not- well we used to go on our bikes, the
roads were quieter then obviously in those days, we used to go on our
bikes, down to the local river. Which was probably about six or seven
miles away. And go swimming, most days in the summer. Erm, camping, we
used to camp on like, on the local fields. Things like that quite a
lot. when- erm, when the weather obviously allowed. With tights on
with tights on your head. And you wonder why I fell for you . Most-
most people wonder why I fell for you. Oh yes used to fall out of
trees quite often, cos we did a lot of climbing based games and
chasing each other around. So we’re forever falling, cuts and scrapes.
Erm- football injuries, cricket injuries EOS Yeah but tree- falling
out of trees was quite a common injury. Also we used to fall off a lot
of words. It always seemed more fun to walk along the walls than it
did the EOS No floor above, yeah. Oh yeah, yeah we- we used to make er
bonfires round bonfire night obviously but we used to make dens in
those and they were quite big and dangerous cos erm the fire brigade
generally used to come and pull half the- the timber that you’d
collected off, they wouldn’t let you build it as big as it was. And
erm as soon as they left, we used to put it all back on again. And
then make dens inside them and things like that. And so it w- it was
quite dangerous times really, compared to what the kids seem to get up
to today. Mm to where I was yeah. Yeah that’s them like on-. It was
very rural, it still is, rural area. The estate’s rough yeah it’s-.
But that was in the early sixties. mm, it was- yeah, I think Myra
Hindley was early- early- earlier than that. But er yeah. Ah me mum
still- she kind of couldn’t wait for it to erm, explode, so she could
have a go of her whistle and watch the light come on as she hit the
water. That’s not a very religious thing, mm EOS But holidays were
always s- we always seemed to er- take holidays to North Wales,
usually erm, in the early days to er a bungalow, which was- I can
still remember the smell now, there were always damp musty smells. Me
mum always tried to convince me dad that they had to go in a caravan,
would be better because they were more modern. But he- he wouldn’t
have it cos he always said that they were like being in a tin can, if
it rained. And eventually she got him to go in one and he never went
in a bungalow again, cos he realised how good they were. But it was
always Wales, we didn’t have foreign holidays at all. It was always
North Wales. I spent most of my teenage erm, holidays on- on- on the
beach, pretty much on me own. Me- me dad didn’t like the beach. Me mum
used to come for a walk but I used to sort of like- we used to play
games erm but it was pretty much- I used to wander up and down the
beach and erm, throwing stones at this that and the other and er EOS
whiling the hours away that way. But er- didn’t really go in the- in
the water much. It was- it was too cold. But erm I remember them, erm,
th- they were good holidays. I always- I always really enjoyed them
and it was nice to spend time together. With er- we always used to buy
a kite on the way down. That’s something, erm, me dad and I always did
EOS was kept flying kites. Usually from the petrol station on- on the
way down but they were good. And what was your least favourite
teacher? I had a least favourite teacher. **anon** woodwork teacher,
horrible man. He was erm, a bully really. Er when you look back at it
he was- it was quite scandalous the things he used to do. Erm but- not
a good teacher. Favourite teacher, **anon** from **anon**, who was
really good teacher, went on to become headmistress at a local school
years later. You had some weird and wonderful teachers EOS base
education on- Mm, ours was-. Well ours were always physical, they
weren’t- erm, and obviously the cane and the slipper were allowed in
school when I was there. So if you did something quite menial, or
didn’t get your homework in on time or something like that, you were
hit with the slipper. Which is like usually a plimsoll or er a gym-
shoe. But some teachers gave them names, like erm- **anon** called his
‘Oscar.’ EOS And he’d like removed everything apart from the floppy
sole, and he used to send people for er- he’d hit you say six times
with that just in case you know, er, you’d- you hadn’t done something
right. But if you were really, really in trouble, then you had to go
and see **anon**, he was the head teacher, we used to call him
**anon**, cos of his surname. But he used to have canes of various
shapes and sizes. Like he would actually ask you to hold your hand out
and- well he would erm- give you six of the best, as he called it and
it was pretty brutal really. When you think back, I certainly wouldn’t
allow my kids to be- to be hit by a- a teacher. But that was the way
life was. Well I used to liked sports, used to like playing football
in a team, used to play football for the football team, obviously, for
the school football team. Erm badminton. Used to pl- like playing
that. Erm but I wasn’t- I used to join the bo- like the book clubs and
history club and things like that just so that you could get first in
the line at lunch. So you could get your dinner before everybody else
EOS and then pretty much not go to the club but at least you’d- you’d
got something from it . Well I always got a good part in the school
play. I was the pied piper of Hamblyn, although I couldn’t play a
recorder EOS and I had to pretend I was playing a recorder whilst all
these er rats were running behind me. And I played a tree, I played a
tree in one pl- oh no sorry it wasn’t a tree, I was a dormouse in one
play, which had to sit underneath a tree. And this tree was actually
**anon**. Because he was like the tallest guy in the class. So he- he
basically had to stand there for twenty minutes with his arms out.
While I was curled up asleep below. And me mum said I EOS told
everybody, but no, I mean I remember the school plays, I- i generally
got quite a decent part in that or a part with- at least just a speech
part or rather than er just standing there dressed as a donkey or
something. Do you remember moving from **anon**? Is this **anon**
yeah? mm, it’s like we moved erm, when I was s- seven and yeah that
was the same sort of thing- it was- it was a bigger house that we
moved to, erm with three bedrooms whereas the previous house only had
two. Erm but again the garden was a big thing ocs it was quite a large
garden. Erm I remember me dad working on it for months when we first
moved in. Although it was like awesome when we moved in. I remember
like the winter, erm and after the winter he was really out there all
the time and we used to help him get er soil. From the fields at the
back, and put it in wheelbarrows and used to give us like- can’t
remember how much it was now but it wasn’t a lot. And er we used to
fill the wheelbarrow and then bring it and tip it in the back garden.
Cos it was- it was a lot lower than- than he thought it should have
been so er we must’ve put tons in there over the years. But er- he was
keen gardener my dad. He liked his garden didn’t he? mm, also there’s
quite a lot- There’s quite a lot of kids in that area though wasn’t
there? The- Everybody seemed to have- you know, every house pretty
much had kids. There was a few like old dears whose maybe kids had
grown up and gone. But there was a lot of kids in the area at the
time. Yeah from different-. Yeah that’s quite true yeah. mm,
everybody’s of a similar erm- like pay-scale as well, weren’t EOS
Everybody was like working- you know working class. erm, Dads all
worked in Trafford Park at the time, or the majority didn’t they?
There was no- erm you know, the odd person had a car. Which I
remember, I must have been about ten or so like, when we- when- when
me dad got a car. Used to have a motorbike and he had a canal barge
EOS which he- him and his friend worked on. I suppose to get a little
bit more money, when I think back. I know he- he always fancied having
a canal barge that he could you know maybe go on holiday and weekends,
but he’s- he tended to spend you know, one day of the weekend erm
working on this boat that I never actually saw, although I know it was
called **anon**. I think I saw it once actually, but I never saw it
float. It was always in dry dock and er- but I suppose y- you get to
meet the other people with boats and what have you, we actually went
on a few boats, for day trips up and down the Bridgewater canal. And
it was- it was nice community, it was really- everybody- and some had
like made sandwiches and there was always big picnics and this that
and the other and other kids to play with, so that was good fun, it
was good times. Again the sun always seemed to be shining. From- from
**anon**? I didn’t really know a lot about **anon**, to be honest. Mm,
I think a lot of people were happy when they moved because, they did-
like I was saying before, they did get a garden, which they didn’t
have before. And there did seem to be a bit more space, and-. I would
imagine yeah, mm EOS Yeah, course it is, yeah EOS it’s probably one of
the biggest shopping centres in Europe isn’t it? It’s open late - Mm,
that’s right. No I mean when they built like the shopping centre at
Stretford, the Stretford Precinct, that’s totally different. People-
when it was first built it was so- people thought it was fantastic,
cos you didn’t get wet when you were shopping, if it was raining you
could still wander from shop to shop. Once you were inside there, you
were- you know, you were dry and erm- but it seemed to like rip the
heart out of the centre of Stretford. Because when it closed, it was
like a huge area that you couldn’t get into, so there was no- whereas
if there was- in the old community, there was pubs and- and- not so
much restaurants cos I don’t think they had like restaurants in those-
in our early days, did they, your Mum and Dad didn’t tend to go out
for a meal most weekends. Cos they didn’t have the money but er it
just seemed to be like a big void in the centre of the town that was
only used from nine ‘til six and then er and then closed. But I think
the Trafford centre’s different because it does involve cinemas and-
yeah. Things that you can do and it’s not just a shopping centre it’s-
it is a place that-you know, y- you can virtually spend all day there.
Yeah and most- most other Saturdays But yeah that- that has been a big
change and erm the renovation of the centre of Urmston, I think that’s
for the- for the good as well. Er- and I think they’ve learnt by
mistakes they’ve done in previous place- like Sale. When they did the
centre of Sale and- and they rejuvenated that, the parking’s just a
nightmare, whereas what they’ve done in Urmston I think’s really good.
I’ve not personally struggled to get in and out where- you know, or
find a parking space whereas I know people in Sale, you can drive
round for like three quarters of an hour looking for somewhere to
park. And er with it being free parking as well. Whereas some- some of
these places, like Altrincham, pretty much charge to park, don’t they?
Yeah just turn of the century yeah. well, yeah you can still see which
shop- yeah. mm, but also like I was saying before, you can’t close it
off, because it’s on the street and you know, where there’s coff-
coffee you know, erm, lounges and restaurants then- although they’re
not undercover, pe- I don’t think people are that interested any more
so it still is a town. Whereas I think all these places that they put
precincts, they kind EOS Yeah it’s the start of something that you
would hope, in years to come will get bigger and bigger and EOS more
and more people take part, so it- yeah I think it’s a good idea.
That’s an ex-servicemen’s club. It’s very popular, yeah. You’ve got
the new conservative club, yeah, yeah. Yeah it’s- I think it’s a shame
like the cinema couldn’t have sort of like made it through recession
and what have you, but I just think people- it needed so much money
spending on it, didn’t it? But it- it seems to be thriving as like a
dance-. Yeah there’s not very many left at all. Yeah some of them in
the past, you remember like **anon** in erm-. **anon**, that was in
**anon**. That was where I was first gonna take you to see James Dean
EOS and then- and then they pulled it, because they used to do erm say
like a James Dean series or- and they’d- they’d- they’d show his
films, or then they’d show such and such a thing and it was a bit more
erm- not just like run-of-the-mill blockbuster films and just next one
and the next one and the next one. They tended to do like series. They
did- they did a erm, church in Chorlton’s started doing it recently,
you know the big church near erm- the catholic church where- Is it
**anon**? Yeah, on the f- the one on the fork? Yeah the one on the
right hand side, that does- go past that and it’ll have like- seems
crazy sometimes, but you have like gangster series, and it’ll be
showing all the ‘Godfathers.’ EOS And it’s- it’s like a- it- it-
because it’s in- in the church it- it’s not run by the church but they
obviously use like the church EOS But there’s always big adverts
saying like ‘gang’- all Al Capone films and this that and the other,
all . On the corner h- the what’s it called? The c- the corner house.
Yeah where they- rather than just showing mainstream, run-of-the-mill
blockbusters, they er yeah try something different. But it keeps them
op- keeps them going and- and not everybody wants to see Bruce Willis
in his vest. Which I believe he’s brought out a new aftershave. What
we were saying, why would you want to smell like Bruce Willis looks?
do you know what I mean? In his sweaty vest, yeah. Would you ? How
many brothers and sisters do you have? How long have EOS I think you
had to EOS He used to rap your knuckles. that was the usual way, well
I- I have two sisters. One three years- three years er older and one
seven years younger so I think- I don’t think there was much planning
in erm- in our **anon** being born. Probably a mistake EOS but er yeah
I- I tended to let them do the girly things and I did the er- did the
lad’s things. So I’ve never been really that close to EOS why would I-
Spoiled? No not at all, far from it! I’d still have to get up and
light the fire on a Sunday, me sisters didn’t. But they used to do the
erm- help my mum I suppose more with the cooking and-. Erm, no not
really I used to er-. I wasn’t spoilt at all! I- I used to make my own
bed . But I didn’t change the sheets, I think that me mum did that.
Probably every three or four months, whether they needed changing or
not. But er no I didn’t do a lot of housework really, don’t think but
I use to help me dad in the garden. Or I’d be sent off to the shops
for you know, running errands. So it’s not like- I didn’t get away
with anything, just different things. Good God, that’s not-. No did
you have to do that every day? Bet you do it every other week then. No
I’ve never been in a police EOS Yeah my mum used to work, and erm, and
me dad used to work shifts. So if he was home first he pretty much
just sat there and waited for me mum to come home. But then years
later he changed, I don’t know- became a modern man. And actually half
got- my mum would half get the tea ready before she went and he- he’d
put the tea on knowing- cos she was always home at the same time cos
she only worked across the road. Erm knowing that she’d be home at
six, me dad would start tea at like twenty to six, or so and- and it
was virtually ready when me mum came EOS and then she would er serve
it up. Yeah I re- I remember the things you mean. But I don’t think-
we didn’t have them much. yeah food you didn’t have so much choice.
You used to get those people who used to buy er- pies in a tin. You
think- they used to just steam them didn’t they? We never had them cos
they were from-. some people would have them, and they were made by
goblin. Goblin EOS Oh yeah, that was-. Can you imagine my dad? Mm, We
used to buy them but my dad used to go mad cos obviously he’d- he’d
never had anything like that. And just the smell of that, he- yeah,
erm, He weren’t very popular, but there was a Chinese one as well.
There was like a noodle one. Chow mein that’s it. that’s it, yeah,
yeah EOS but I can remember pizzas as well. When **anon** was at
school she must’ve been about fourteen or so, she made this pizza. And
it was like pretty much the first time I’d ever had pizza, but it
wasn’t- wasn’t like a pizza, it was like you know, flour, just- it was
like erm- more like a-. Yeah, yeah but it was really, really thick
bread with like cheese and tomato on it, or tomato puree. Yeah it was
yeah, but with tomato puree, you know like **anon** makes now. And it
was erm- that was it but it just had like a little bit of erm, green
or yellow pepper which was really like unheard of at the time. And erm
me mum used to love it when **anon** made that, she used to- you know
especially when she used to make it at school and then bring it home.
And then heat it up again for tea, it was like, you felt like you were
really continental. You know, ‘we don’t need the chip pan tonight.’
EOS Cos pretty much everything I think involved chips I think as well.
mm, I know we- we used to have like boil- boiled potatoes. And things
like that and obviously like we used to- we’d have like Sunday roast
but we did- I think we had quite a lot of chips. Although, we were
quite skinny kids, I don’t know why- why we weren’t big fatties.
Perhaps we ran it all off. no, we didn’t have yoghurts. Didn’t ever- I
can’t ever remember having a yoghurt when I was a kid. I was probably
about sixteen, seventeen before I saw a yoghurt. I don’t think- yeah
definitely. Used to have quite a lot of carnation milk. And tinned
fruit. Everybody had- I think everyone had like tinned pears and-.
Mixed fruit, like oranges and apples all chopped up. I tell you what
we used to buy- did you have- ever have the er EOS We used to get
those in tins, they were great those, they were EOS No these were
great. They were full of Es and everything. there was every E in the
world was in those. No but you used to pretty much shop- you didn’t
like weekly shop did you in those days, it was- it was EOS Mm, but I
know we used to have er cereals as well. I remember when it all- all
these new cereals came out, like ricicles and rice crispies. And this-
you always tried- when a new one came out on tv you always wanted to
try it. Pretty much like you with anything new that comes on the tv
these days. within a week, we’ve got one!one, two, three EOS erm, I already know the answer to this question,
but how many brothers and sisters have you got EOS four now, bloody
hell, that’s been a long time EOS since erm, when we was in Scouts
wasn’t it? God, I can’t even remember, was it longer than that? was
back in two thousand four? at the latest EOS yeah, yeah, well
hundredth Salford wasn’t it EOS was you? so what’ve you got, you’ve
got **anon** EOS how old’s- how old’s **anon** now? I remember him
when he was about, like EOS I remember him when he was God, how old
was he, about eleven or something like that EOS is he? Is he? what,
off power rangers EOS erm actually, I think I seen your Granddad
actually when I was doing erm, when I was on the cavity wall
insulation EOS yeah, I like I knocked on his hou- I knocked on- I
knocked his house and erm I sa- I saw him go in the house so I went,
‘oh, there’s Lewis’ **anon** Grandad’ EOS went to knock on the house
EOS no answer he just- yeah, just- just ignoring me EOS I’ve got one
brother, one sister EOS me sister’s erm, sister’s seventeen EOS
**anon** erm, **anon**- he’s nearly twenty one now EOS yeah, he’s
going aw- he’s going on holiday for his birthday and erm EOS he’s
going to erm, is it Cos EOS yeah, but he failed to invite me so EOS
that was a bit cheeky wasn’t it? yeah, just going with all his mates
cos he’s- he’s good mates with erm, you know everyone that we work
with at **anon** EOS erm, so he’s going with a lot of them, all of his
mates from- from erm from when he was a, you know, doing his
bricklaying EOS and stuff like that, so EOS no, he’s just doing- he’s
working at **anon** with us, isn’t he EOS erm, doing a bit of- he
works more in the kitchen and does a bit of driving work as well, you
know like a little bit of a EOS like assistant chef yeah EOS so he’s
not doing bad, but he said he wants to get back into the erm, to the
building but erm, the last- the last guy that he worked for was an
absolute arsehole EOS and erm, so he’s just put him off, you know,
like the guy lived in, up Bolton way EOS and he used to have to be at
this guys house for about erm, used to have to be there for half six
in the morning EOS and this was before- this was before he could drive
EOS so he had to like, get the bus at like half five in the morning,
and you know, if he was late, the guy wouldn’t wait for him so EOS I
think he just kind of thought ‘sack that, I’m not- I don’t wanna be
working in the bricklaying anymore’ sorta thing, but, but I’ve been
trying to tell him, you know, he needs to get back into it cos he
can’t EOS stay at **anon** ‘til forever and ever more, the longer
you’re out of EOS the harder it’ll be to get back into it EOS what
college was he at? what was he doing at- at **anon**? nah, yeah, it
was basically- all it was, was erm, online modules sorta- sorta thing
EOS so we just used to sit there in front of a computer for an hour
just reading through these, you know, all these modules EOS and then,
like, yeah, and then at the end of each module you have to have a test
and there was no sort of like teaching involved in it, there was like,
it was just, you know, you just sit there and read it, I think the
only thing we did erm, you know, practical stuff, cos it was all to do
with networking and computers and stuff like that, we learnt how to,
you know like y- when you get your Ethernet cables? we learnt how to
make them EOS and we learnt to strip a computer down, and then put it
back together, they were the only things we did for the whole two
years EOS so, there’s no wonder I did- I didn’t erm, I didn’t pass it,
cos when, you like, you’d complete all your modules and then at the
end of it you have to take a EOS you know, like a test covering all
the modules EOS so, and then if you fail that test you have to pay for
it to do it EOS so I failed it and I thought, ‘no’ EOS ‘I’m not- I’m
not even going back’ but you have- it’s like something like sixty
pound a go EOS and you know, back when I was working on four pound an
hour in- in EOS sixty pound was quite a bit of money EOS erm,
Electronics in the end, I come out with erm, a D EOS so, better than
nothing isn’t it EOS erm, Music Technology, I only- I scrapped that
after the first year EOS well no, basically I dropped it because it
was, just- I just didn’t like the tutors at all, like you know at-
when I was in school I was into all me drums and stuff EOS and I like
loved music, but then as soon as I got to college just, I don’t know
what- I don’t know what, but it’s just changed my, like erm, opinion
of erm, you know, trying to be a a musician sort of thing EOS I don’t
regret it really though I was just too lazy to EOS favourite high
school teacher? I don’t- I don’t- I don’t think I had- I don’t think
many people- probably **anon** to be honest you know with Music EOS I
don’t remember her EOS yeah, I know but cos- cos he was a drummer as
well, you know, he like really encouraged me and and erm, you know, he
used to help me out wherever he could EOS yeah I still see him about
cos he works for Salford Council now EOS you know for Ma- for Mapas,
Music and Performing Arts of Salford or something like that, erm, so
I- I see him about, you know when I’m dropping stuff off at different
places EOS so I still speak to him now and again he was erm, decent do
you- what was the worst thing you ever got into trouble for EOS it was
one of them subjects that you just don’t pay attention to EOS ahh, the
worst- I got in trouble for a couple of things, when we was in erm,
year seven erm, I thought I’d be a bit with erm, thought I’d be a
little bit of erm, mischievous erm and then me and **anon**, me and
**anon** and **anon** used to all mess about in erm, in Science class,
this was year ten, year ten or eleven EOS we always used to mess about
in Science and erm, basically you know along the Science benches EOS
used to get like the wooden bits along the front, and **anon** snapped
EOS so of course, you heard this like big cracking sound EOS teacher
looks across to us all and we’re all there, like rolling our EOS and
the next- so he turns back, carries on with what- what he’s doing and
the next thing you know, I’ve got this piece of wood in me hand and
**anon** just head-butts it EOS like, snaps it in half, and then the
teacher looks round again, and I’m sat there with like two pi- two
pieces of wood in my hand EOS and erm, we both got te- detention for
that and erm, you EOS we- yeah, we- we were in erm, doing detention
and he- and he comes in and he goes, ‘surprised to see you here lads,
wh- what you in here for?’ and, you know what **anon** like, he just
like burst out laughing, and I’m just sat there dead straight faced
and he just went, ‘smashed a piece of wood over his head’ EOS like
that it’s what it is- but that was one of worst things I ever got in
de- in trouble for I reckon so are your Mum and Dad from Salford? From
Manchester area? are they in **anon** still, in **anon** EOS right,
still Manchester area EOS a chip batch? ah, people from other places,
they call it weird things don’t they EOS it’s like, you know like I’ve
got family that live in, in erm, in EOS they- they erm, they’re
baffled by, literally, you know like Peter Kay says it on- on his
thingy, but they are baffled by like chips and EOS they just don’t
have it like, my- my Aunty who’s from up here, she has it all the time
but like, the kids they don’t eat it, I love chips and gravy EOS and
every time you go down and you’re like, you know, if you go to the
chippy, ‘can I have chips and gravy’ they’ll just give you like, a
portion of chips and a portion of gravy, they won’t give it you
together, if- if you want to eat it now EOS the salt and pepper chips
they’re nice EOS but the one on, you know on the **anon**, what’s it
called now, it’s a Chinese chippy on erm, you know on the **anon**?
yeah, the one right at the end EOS yeah, I can’t remember what it’s
called now, not been there for a while but that’s nice as well what
was your erm, what was your first job after leaving school? oh you
did, didn’t you? working with **anon** and that EOS you worked in
Trafford Centre didn’t you? God, I forgot about that EOS that in the
Trafford Centre, yeah? bloody hell, I remember my- my first job
working in- in Trafford, I went to you know when the job- when the job
centre used to behin- be behind the big screen EOS do you remember
when it used to be there? I went in there, you know, like looking for
jobs and- and the guy that- that was erm running it, sort of thing he
said, ‘yeah, they’ve got this one in BHS here’ erm, you know, ‘fill
out this application form’, so I filled it out EOS and he said that
there’s supposed to be a questionnaire to go with it EOS you know
that, you know, to see what your opinions are on stuff, he said,
‘we’ve not got an- any in at the moment but erm, when it comes in I’ll
fill it out for you and hand it in’ EOS and then, so I- I- I ended up
erm getting- going- going for the interview erm, getting the job EOS I
don’t- I don’t remem- I don’t remember if I’ve told you this but you
know when you go for your induction sort of thing EOS erm, there was-
there was about eight or ten of us sat round this big table, and it
was near- near the Christmas erm, period when I EOS so they had some
of the things that they used to sell on Christmas EOS and erm, no word
of a lie, they had a vibrator on the table EOS so we were all sat
there going ‘what kind of, erm, company have we come to work for
here?’ EOS yeah, the- I don’t- I can’t- I honestly can’t remember EOS
but- and when like, the Christmas shop came in they used to sell like,
you know, like adult stuff like that, like flavoured EOS condoms and
everything like that, which was kind of weird, when EOS sixteen and
you’re like EOS I don’t think I applied to work in Ann Summers EOS
apart from Music? God I loved History when I was at school EOS yeah,
he was- he was a good History tea- and we had erm, what was the other
one called as well? The one that really pale with black hair, what was
she called, **anon**, was that the one? And she got married EOS yeah,
yeah, she wasn’t bad either but yeah I used to love erm, History and
History and Music was about it really, everything else I just used to
loathe EOS what about you? yeah, Science was okay but EOS I didn’t
like Maths, we had erm, is it **anon** EOS but yeah, **anon** and erm,
cos me and **anon** used to sit next to each other EOS so and it was,
you know, right near the back of the class so we were always up to no
good EOS and yeah, just, so she just used to- she never used to like
us I don’t think so that didn’t make it any better but yeah, Science,
I reckon cos it was a pretty run down school by the- by the time we
was there EOS so they never used to have any Science equipment L; they
had Bunsen burners, that was it, Bunsen bur- Bunsen burners EOS and
the clay mats that were all like superglued back together EOS cause
people had been smashing them EOS so yeah what else, what else, what
else, what else, can you remember any good stories that your
grandparents or your parents used to tell you? I think a lot of Gran’s
are like that aren’t they EOS cause my- my Gran, cos she lives down in
Southend with my Aunty and erm, so she- all the time she’s on the
phone to me Mum and me Mum’s sat there like that you know, trying to
get off the phone cos she’s just going on, and on, and on EOS I know
you c- you can’t tell them- you can’t tell them to you know, you don’t
know what to EOS yeah, ‘I’ve got to go now’, ‘just a minute, just a
minute’ EOS ‘just let me tell you this’ EOS yeah she phoned up the
other night, you know when all these riots were on, on the precinct
EOS she phoned up to see if me Dad was working but erm, he wasn’t
thankfully, he answered the phone going, ‘hold on a minute, hold on a
minute, erm, I’m just beating these muggers off from the door’ EOS
she’s dead- she’s dead- yeah, fireman, yeah I always remember random
stories he used to tell me when- when I was a kid but the one that
sticks out most is just like when, he’s got a picture of it actually,
w- him and one of his, erm, the lads that he first started working
with, erm like, this building’s on fire and there’s just got a picture
of them ru- both running away from this bi- w- brick wall that’s
collapsing EOS that was pretty- pretty cool erm, picture and story to
go with it EOS y- yeah, erm, I’ve not seen her for a while actually,
erm, you know, cos with all the council cuts EOS well, everything’s
been scaled back, I mean, when I first started doing the driving erm,
you know, we used to be really busy everyday, you know, like with like
ten or twelve jobs to do everyday, but now, we’re down to about two or
three EOS you know, on a good day you’ll be like, you’ll have like one
big job for like eighty people and that’s considered a busy day now
EOS whereas like, back when we first started you know, used to do like
six jobs for twenty people, so so it has- it has erm, you know, been
scaled back a lot with all the cuts so it’s kind of erm, no, I don’t
see- I don’t see- I’ve not seen her for a while I don’t think- she’s
not been to- up to **anon** for a while I don’t- right what d- what-
yeah, what like, what years does she teach sort of thing EOS yeah, my
Mum teaches erm, like reception she just erm, their school’s just been
closed down and th- you know, they’ve got a EOS erm, what’s it called,
‘**anon**’ or something like that EOS no, not **anon** erm, it’s
called, erm, it’s down by the river believe it or not EOS erm, so
yeah, th- do you know the school where she worked EOS it’s like,
hundred and fifteen years old or something like that EOS and it is
like, falling apart EOS you know, you so it’s about time they got a
new one, I think they’re, you know, merging a couple of schools EOS
like they did- yeah, like they did with ours when EOS was it- was it
**anon** that closed wasn’t it, and they merged- merged some of ours
and some with- with **anon** bad times, when they- all the scrotes
come EOS ever get hurt? No, I- I’ve never broke a bone in my body EOS
yeah erm, the worst thing that’s ever happened, and it sounds really
naff, is erm, just pushing my, you know, like a push bike EOS along,
and erm, for some reason this- this lad that used to live round the
corner, erm, he come up and he was just- just messing about like, just
like kicked the back tyre, sort of thing, and you know the- the cogs
where your chain goes EOS like, dug right into my leg so, got a big-
big scar on my leg where that was from EOS I had to go hospital and
have stitches for that, that was about the worst thing that ever- ever
happened to me EOS no, I don’t think- I think I’ve had a couple of
burns and stuff when I was a kid but nothing nothing worth speaking
about really, just the EOS scar on my leg from an idiot down the
street EOS erm, whereabouts did you used to play when you- when you
were a EOS my brother’s done that Mum was like, ‘oh, gotta take you to
hospital for a tetanus’ and all this EOS get over it Mum, just wipe it
up with an alcohol free wipe EOS but we used to have erm, where I used
to live on erm, do you remember the **anon** Church on the- on the- on
the high- it was like a really old old church, like, pretty big church
EOS and we used to play on the grounds there but then they knocked it
all down and built houses over it erm, with like a- just a smaller
church to the side and we used to just like, used to have like, you
know like the massive fences along, erm EOS so- but we dug like a
little hole so we could s- like slide under the- under the fence EOS
and we built a little tree house in the- in the corner EOS and erm, we
used to get the vicar coming out, you know, like, shouting at us,
going, ‘get off’ and, you know, private land EOS and obviously,
playing in- never went down to Buille Hill Park really, but like, Oaks
Park EOS yeah, but erm, I remem- I remember learning to ride my bike
in- in Buille Hill park though EOS really? I remember when my Dad
who’s like, you know, like running along behind, holding the seat so I
wouldn’t wobble, and then EOS I just remember going, ‘w- why am I
wobbling so much g- get hold of the seat’, and tu- turned around an me
Dad was like EOS a- miles away, I’d been riding the bike and I didn’t-
you know, didn’t even know that’s the first time I remember EOS yeah
ahh, they talk about that word all the time don’t EOS it’s true though
like when- like on me bike when I’m going round corners, you know, or
j- or like you’re trying to do a u- turn, the faster y- you, obviously
not like twenty mile an hour but, the faster you’re going, then it-
the easier it is to manoeuvre it EOS did you ever do any extra extra
activities at erm, in school or college when we used to have to do
erm, what was it called now? circus skills with- what did I do? I
think I used to do something with music, you know erm, learning to
play another instrument, I started to learn how to play guitar but you
know, drums was the way forward for me, thought, ‘chords, what are
these?’ EOS didn’t have a clue EOS oh yeah, I remember **anon**- was
it **anon** EOS he u- he used to teach that didn’t he EOS I don’t
think I ever used to do anything in- in a High School EOS no, I used
to play a lit- little bit of rugby but I never stuck at it really EOS
you know, cos my Dad used to play, my Dad used to play for erm,
Salford Reds Juniors EOS and he erm, did like tours in France and
Germany and all that when they were- when he was like, when he was
like nineteen, twenty erm, he did like you know, like tours in France
and stuff, and I remember him always telling me about the coach got
erm, you know, got EOS and erm, him and one of his mates decided to
stay in France with him EOS you know, while he got better EOS so they
just had a hol- they just had like a EOS think it was like a three or
four week holiday just messing about, something like that EOS what, in
Salford? well, after erm, was it Tuesdays EOS erm, incidents, not a
lot really EOS it was just a small minority of it, spoiling it for
people wasn’t it? I live- I live fairly near to the Salford precinct
where it was- all taking place, you could see, there was a couple of
cars on f- that they’d burnt out, think it was like the Manchester
Radio car EOS erm, then they’d, you know like, tipped it over and
burnt it out, you could see the smoke for miles erm, and my
girlfriend, she’s EOS so we- so we had to go for a drive round didn’t
we EOS so we went for a li- for a little drive round and you know,
like all the roads to the precinct there’s just like, lines of li-
riot police EOS erm, and they all looked knackered EOS they’d been
stood there for ages EOS you know, without a break, felt sorry for
them, one of my Mum’s friends erm, he works erm, you know, training
and co-ordinating the riot police EOS so he was- he was like up for
like forty-eight hours straight or something daft like that EOS it was
erm- it was all madness wasn’t it though, but I think there’s erm,
like I say, just a lot of people spoiling it for the majority, a lot
of people in Salford are decent people EOS erm, just erm, what was it-
cos I was watching erm is it Question Time with young voters last
night and erm, it was saying that, you know, there’s a lot of erm EOS
you know, it’s not just people you know, being idiots, there is a lot
of underlying problems that they think is the cause EOS there are
broken families and all this erm, did you hear what H- Hazel Blears
said? In h- in erm, was it in the houses of parliament where she said
erm, you know, ‘why aren’t- why aren’t your kids in school’ and it’s
like, it’s the summer holidays EOS ahh, but erm, watching- watching
the news as well with- I’m sure the- the news people just go around
and find the most stupid people to talk EOS the stupidest people to
talk to and, you know, give interviews to and, you know, you can see
why half of them haven’t got jobs EOS the way- the way they talk and
act EOS they’re just- they’re just stupid aren’t they see that guy
that was in Manchester city centre with his erm, with his t-shirt
pulled up over his face and his- and his sunglasses on, and he was
like, ‘the police can’t touch us today can they it’s free reign’
thought, ‘oh’ I was just watching it and I was EOS what are they- what
do they think they’re gonna achieve, you know, if they wanted to vent
their anger I’m sure they would find better ways than erm, smashing up
their own communities did you hear erm, TJ Hughes on the precinct,
the- they’ve closed it down now EOS because erm, you know cos it got
that badly damaged in the riots EOS erm, they just decided that they
can’t afford to erm, you know, repair it all, so they’ve just closed
it down, so they’re just ruining prospects for people in their own
community really aren’t they? you know, that’s about, how many people
do you reckon are working there, fifteen, twenty people, that’ve just
lost their jobs EOS so they’re just adding to their own problems and-
they just don’t think about it do they EOS it’s erm, it’s all stupid I
d- I don’t see why they were rioting anyway, I think they were just
EOS copy- copy cat riots from, you know, cos I think in London it was
all to do with that guy getting shot wasn’t it EOS erm, but up here,
they j- they had no reason at all did they really, they were just
copying it, getting away with it cos th- you know, because they could
get away with it so but erm, watching a few erm, videos you know, that
have been posted on youtube of people getting arrested EOS and erm,
what do you reckon- what do you reckon about erm, you know, if people
do get convicted then they should loose their EOS at- see I- at first
I- I thought that, you know, yeah, cos they shouldn’t have been
involved in the riots and why should the tax payer have to, you know,
pay for the clean up EOS and pay for them who have caused the mess EOS
but then I was watching when I was watching the- that programme last
night and it was saying, you know, erm, is it not EOS gonna cos more
problems cos these people that are already on low incomes or no
incomes have got, you know, nowhere to go, so are they not just gonna
start causing more trouble than all this EOS so, there’s a bit of a
argument for both sides of it really isn’t EOS deport them, yeah L;
yeah, send them all somewhere else EOS just make them live on a small
island EOS or Australia, like back in the day EOS did you see that
about the- was it that e-petitions where they’re trying to get erm,
you know, the death sentence brought back sort of thing EOS aren’t
they all mad aren’t they? that’s very true very true erm I don’t think
it’ll deter anybody though cos, you can imagine, in America they still
have high crime rates, it doesn’t really deter anybody does it EOS
with- with criminals it’s erm, when they’re committing acts of, erm,
they don’t really think about the consequences do they, they don’t
think, ‘oh, I’m gonna get banged up for twenty years for smuggling ten
pound- ten million pounds worth of class A’ or whatever they just want
to do it because they’re greedy aren’t they, or- that’s another one of
the topics that was on that programme last night, he was saying that,
you know, how can you expect these, you know, these kids, to respect
the police when- they don’t even respect- they don’t even respect
their own Mums’ and EOS and you’re taking the powers away from the-
from the Mums’ and Dads’ to, you know, enforce that respect, because
you know, even smacking a child is frowned upon and EOS stuff isn’t
it, you were saying that- yeah, yeah, too erm, too P-C, politically
correct, isn’t it, you know it’s all- bollocks in my opinion EOS never
did me any harm EOS get- getting a smack round the back of the legs
EOS no, no, trust me, the back of the legs was worse you know,
especially coming from my Dad EOS he’s massive isn’t he? that was erm,
fun times when I was a kid, well I d- I don’t get people that, you
know, it’s never aff- it’s never affected me in- in any way, any-
anybody that I know that got you know, a clip round the ear once in a
while EOS you know, it’s not affected them in you know, like,
adversely sort of- sort of way has it, you know EOS yeah, there should
be- I think they need to look at it don’t they change the rules EOS so
have you- I don’t know what erm- what ways did you have to help
around- help around the house when you used to live at home with your
Mam? used to- used to be like a fight in our house every weekend, you
know, like me Mum dragging us out of bed at like ten o’clock on a
Saturday morning when you just wanna sleep EOS cos you’ve been up like
playing on your Xbox or whatever, ‘til like three in the morning EOS
she’s dragging us out of bed going, erm, trying to get us, you know,
to tidy up different things like, you can wash the pots from last
night and she used to make us like al- hoover all the- hoover all the-
all the stairs and landing and clean the bathroom and stuff like that
EOS she w- the funniest I look back on it now and I- I- I l- laugh on
it, but when- when we were kids, like cos me and my brother used to
have to share a room, erm, if that you know, became, messer, and me
Dad used to warn us, like two, or three times you know, saying, you
know, ‘tidy your room up’ EOS and then if we didn’t do it, you know,
just go, ‘oh you know, we’ll just leave it, do it another time’, erm,
we’d come home from school one day and he would like have ripped
everything out of the wardrobes, all the toy boxes would be emptied
EOS you know, just everything in a big pile in the middle of the floor
and he’d just go EOS ‘sort it out now’ y- you know, ‘you’re not going
out until you’ve tidied your room’ so we used to have to sit there for
like you know, three hours, just EOS tidying the room, and then it
used to be spotless for about two months, but then it used to get back
to the same thing EOS that’s why- but my room now you know, it’s
always spotless so I think that’s been drilled into me, you know EOS
every time **anon** comes ro- eve- every time **anon** comes round to
ours, you know, it just- it’ll be, you know, there’ll be a few clothes
you know, on the back of the chair or whatever, but she’ll just like,
throw her bag on the floor, her shoes and everything and EOS ah, it
annoys me you know, just spent half an hour cleaning up and then you
come round and erm, mess everything up EOS that’d be ace erm EOS yeah
at least you’ve got her your car, how’s your car EOS that’s weird
isn’t it? you’ve got to have a tracker on it? track it sort of thing
EOS that’s a- that’s a- that’s alright isn’t it? that’s decent my
bike’s got so many cracks down the side of it where the previous owner
dropped it on the floor EOS nope not dropped it at- I- I came off it
in EOS it’s on the- it’s on the other side I came off it in erm EOS in
Buille Hill park luckily, you know on the grass EOS so that was the
only time I’ve fell off it so far erm, and it was actually quite
funny, I got up laughing to myself just going, ‘oh my God’ EOS but
yeah, there’s like big cracks down the side of it and you can see
where, like it was been painted over sort of thing, but it’s like, cos
it’s like, it’s like shiny isn’t it EOS but, on the other- on the
other side, erm, it’s just like matte, matte blue paint EOS and it
just looks stupid erm, but I can’t complain for what I paid for it and
the mileage on it there’s still- it’s not even got a thousand miles on
the clock yet EOS ah, it’s great for, you know, just going back and
forward to work you know, takes me like, well, not half the time, but
you know, depends what time, if I’ve gotta go you know, down to
**anon** at you know like five o’clock and it’s really busy, just
zipping through EOS zipping through the traffic is pretty cool, but
did I tell you- did I tell you about that argument what I had with
that van driver? yeah, I was like just – EOS yeah, I was ju- I was
just like going past the line of traffic and I stopped to let him- to
let him come past on the other side of the road, and erm, he starts
shake- shaking his head at me going, you know, like mouthing off in
his van going, ‘ah, what you doing this for, what you doing this for?’
EOS so I was just like you know, g- give him the fingers EOS and he
pulled up at the side of me there, and he was like proper screaming in
my face going, ‘why don’t you get to the back of the queue, all these
other people have gotta wait’ and I was like, it’s part an- ‘part and
parcel of having a motorbike to be honest with you mate, you know, I’m
not gonna sit in a queue of traffic when I can just overtake everbody
am I’ EOS oh, gotta think- gotta think- gotta think sometimes erm,
have you not thought more about getting yours? are you gonna wait a
couple of years do you reckon? yeah cos I reckon- you probably need a
garage to store it in, to save it from getting nicked EOS no, well if
you- if you, you know, cos I know, the reason I got rid of my car was
cos the insurance was just was too high EOS you know, I think I was
paying two thousand pound, and it was only a little fiat punto EOS so
I thought, you know what, erm, this doesn’t justify it, you know, I
only travel, you know, n- not far to work do I, I walk to work most
days, so I just got rid of it and got that cos it’s cheap as chips to
run, three hundred and fifty pound a year on me insurance EOS how
much- how much is your tax for a year? bloody hell, do you know how
much it is on that EOS fif- fifteen pounds for the year EOS yeah, it
can be- it can be a bit of a- a pain in the arse, you know when it’s
raining or it’s a little bit EOS well I’ve been- I’ve been riding it
since the middle of- since the middle of January, so EOS you know,
I’ve been out- I’ve been out there in the cold and- and everything
like that, you know, with me long johns on EOS underneath me thermals
so, I erm, I can, I’ll be- plan to be riding it until it starts
snowing and getting icy, so, then it’ll go in the garage until I can
get it out again EOS oh, depends on the job front, I might get a car
but the EOS insure it- yeah, just insure it for a month EOS erm, I’m
al- I’m already on **anon** EOS but, you know, she uses it for work
going back and forward to Swinton every day told her to get a
motorbike but she won’t have any of it EOS I told her, you know, it
won’t cost you anythingperfect, when you’re ready EOS was anything bad near you? I know, they
doone, two, three EOS erm, two sisters, one brother EOS yeah, well, Mum
got with a new step-dad didn’t she, and after about a month or so she
was pregnant so EOS but **anon**, she’s four EOS think she’s four EOS
yeah it was, when was that? About eight years ago? was you in Salford
Scouts or was it just explorers? Was in Salford Scouts as well?
hundredth, ah, you were the enemy EOS **anon**, **anon**, and **anon**
EOS he’s four years younger than me, so he’s EOS oh no, is it
nineteen, might- it’s nineteen, sorry EOS don’t even see him anymore,
he’s w- he’s like a bit emo, he’s EOS big hole in his ear, his hair’s
a mess EOS he looks like a skunk actually cos he’s dyed the ends
blonde at some EOS power rangers? oh dear EOS yeah, I think you said
you went to try and sell it off EOS probably saw you down the street,
‘oh, he’s trying to sell me summet’ EOS ahh don’t know how many
brothers and sisters you got, I think, I didn’t know you had- oh yeah,
I did I knew you had a brother, he’s a younger brother isn’t he? your
sister older than you? oh, where’s he going? what, he’s just invited
his mates? is he still doing that? oh right, okay EOS Jee- yeah, I
remember you saying that EOS he had to get the train or something EOS
yeah, you’ll it won’t you EOS well he’s had his like, first job, so
that’s the hardest bit isn’t EOS when- then you can get references EOS
whereas our **anon** useless EOS he hasn’t had a job yet he’s- well,
he said he’s applied he d- he dropped out of college EOS he w- he w-
he was at **anon** and then he dropped out of that and I think he
applied for **anon** EOS and I don’t think he went for the first day
EOS and then just, didn’t go EOS erm, he was doing Computing, he was
doing, is it Cisco, is that what you were doing? yeah, I think he was
doing that, but he said the- the teachers are EOS yeah, and then just
doing the test EOS oh right, that’s alright EOS oh my God EOS ‘I’m not
even bothering’ EOS how did you do in your Electronics? yeah, cos you
pick four four equivalent A-levels don’t you, and then drop one or
something EOS oh, that’s a shame EOS who’s your favourite high- high
school teacher then? don’t think I had one EOS I- I rarely had him
though, I had, what’s the other one called, I think she was called
**anon** or something but EOS she- I think she was only there for like
a year EOS it probably wasn’t the worst thing but he really annoyed
me, he was erm in RE he was our RE teacher, I can’t remember if it was
a woman she was- she was horrible, but EOS yeah, she complained at me
for me handwriting at some- at one week or something, and then the
next week she gave me detention cos me handwriting was still bad and
I’m like EOS yeah, oh, **anon** EOS erm my Mum grew up where my Gran
and Granddad are now EOS in, **anon** yeah, erm, my Dad grew up in
**anon** EOS yeah, but **anon**, stepdad, I think his Mum’s part
Prussian- Persian- is it East German or summet? or, on the edge of
something and then he lives- he lived in Wales, and in Liverpool EOS
and then he moved over here so he’s got the weirdest accent EOS it’s
like, he doesn’t- he went to the chippy and I was like, ‘ah, get us a
chip barm’, he went, ‘what’s a chip barm?’, ‘like, you know, barm,
with chips in it’ EOS he was like, ‘don’t have a clue what you’re on
about’ EOS I showed it him, and he went, ‘oh, that’s a chip batch’ EOS
like, what’s a batch? yeah, it’s the best meal EOS really? That’s well
weird, ah where’s your favourite chippy? I can only think of two
there’s **anon** or **anon** EOS yeah used to go there school EOS I
worked in Costa Coffee EOS nah, it wasn’t with **anon**- yeah, I was
at the Trafford Centre one EOS cos that, well, it’s like, went up to
the manager and it’s like, ‘oh, I was thinking like, I want a job,
erm, can I have an interview or something’ he’s like EOS ‘oh yeah,
just come down’, cos like I didn’t have to give my CV in or EOS I went
down, and he- he- he just went, ‘do you know what, I like you’ EOS
he’s like, ‘you can have a job’ turned out he was a raving nutter, but
EOS he, yeah, he didn’t hire anybody else on and then he had a like a
mental breakdown or something, so there’s like, only six of us who
work there, like I think the hours were something like eight ‘til ten
everyday, and then he left, and it was just like us fending EOS it was
horrendous EOS was it a Christmassy one? what was your favourite
subject, like, of all time, apart from Music EOS oh, we had- what’s he
called, that teacher, the ginger one? oh, he was quality EOS ahh, no-
no I’m thinking of a man I think he was the EOS **anon** or something,
no- he was Science wasn’t he EOS **anon**, yeah, and EOS I don’t know
who she was EOS I remember the name, but I don’t think I ever had her
EOS oh, I like, I liked the Sciencey ones but I didn’t like the
teachers EOS and I didn’t like Maths either, was like, really geeky in
it EOS oh, she was horrendous EOS we had **anon** at first, and she
just used to shout at me for just being in me bag all the time EOS
it’s just, like- it wasn’t in it, I just had it open, I was asleep on
the desk with me head in it EOS I can imagine EOS it was shocking,
wasn’t it? but we were banned from them, cos we always used to set
things on EOS no, they’re all crap EOS they just tell you rubbish,
don’t they, like if I start talking to my Gran she’ll- she just won’t
shut up EOS she’ll just carry on, she’ll get slightly on a tangent,
and then she’ll move straight onto it, and then- go in a circle well
EOS it’s really hard as well isn’t it, cos they don’t give you a break
EOS ‘hanging up now, bye’ EOS ‘me kitchen’s on fire, can I go?’, ‘no’
EOS he’s a firefighter your Dad isn’t he? my Mum’s just a bit of a
looser, eh, you know her don’t you? do you see her that often with
your job now cos, before when you were first doing in you her saw
quite a lot when she worked on **anon** didn’t you cos you did some of
the- yeah, well, she used to work at **anon** but then she moved to
**anon** round the corner so I’m not sure they do the same sort of
thing EOS she’s early so it’s nursery mainly EOS but sometimes she
does a bit of reception EOS oh, yeah, that’s where **anon** goes EOS
it’s- that’s what Seedy **anon** went to, wasn’t it EOS they’re doing
that everywhere aren’t they? I think it’s horrendous EOS some dodgy
Broughton people living here EOS did you ever- ever get hurt when you
was playing as a kid? ahh we had erm, the old Scouts, some of them
were like messing around in our house EOS cos like, legged it to the
back door to like try and lock them out, just messing about, and I ran
past the ironing board and kicked the leg of it EOS and broke me toe
EOS that was probably the worst I did, erm, I fell out a tree at one
point and cracked me elbow like, cracked the bone in it EOS ah, but, I
wasn’t that bad cos- you don’t really use it much EOS erm, well we
used to live in **anon**- yeah, erm, so there was erm, just some like-
where all the houses go round, there was like a little patch in the
middle which was just like, gravel EOS used to play in there a lot but
it’s just- it was just full of crap, like, what- bits of broken wood
with nails in it, used to go back with EOS bit of wood with a nail in
your foot EOS ahh, that’s well cool EOS yeah, Lightoaks is a lot nicer
isn’t it? it’s got its little pond in it EOS oh, I remember that,
yeah, my Granddad used to go- round the park with us, and you used to
have your stabilisers on EOS tried it with stabilisers and now I
couldn’t do it, but, like, I was like, ‘I really want to ride it
without the stabilisers’ but every time he tried I just fell off, and
then one day, one of the stabilisers fell off EOS like, on its own
accord, I was like, ‘fine’, so, he took the other one off I thought it
was pretty good EOS if you could talk to your young self now you could
say, ‘centrifugal inertia, and you can pedal faster and you’ll be
alright’ EOS I did circus skills with **anon** EOS I did a bit of that
EOS I did do boules at erm, High School EOS yeah, he was a right
weirdo EOS yeah, was pretty good actually, enjoyed that EOS I was
rubbish at it EOS there wasn’t really much to do was there EOS that’s
well good what do you think of the local people in your EOS ahh, I was
listening on the radio, I wanted to turn it off she just- there was
one that I was listening to and he- he’s like this black guy and he-
he was like, ‘so, why are you rioting’, and he went, ‘oh, it’s just
the police, I hate the police, cos they- they hate us, they can’t
stand the colour of our skin, we’re like, black and Asian and they
don’t even care about their own colour skin’, it’s like, they’re not
being racist then are they, they’re just, like you, plad EOS what’s
the point EOS have they, oh EOS they now are jobless, yeah EOS just
any excuse for them EOS I reckon that’s quality, and loose their
house, everything EOS that’s a good idea EOS pay for all the damage,
yeah EOS well, I think it’d be quite good cos it’ll get like- jail’s
like blocked up anyway EOS if you get one’s that are stuck there for
life anyway, what’s the point in them being around EOS no, I suppose
not EOS yeah, but if they do get rid of them then we’re not paying to
house them in jails as well, so it’ll make it cheaper for us EOS
should bring back the cane in schools, and let police beat everyone up
it’ll be great EOS they can’t- the police can’t do anything EOS can’t
shout at anyone without ending up in prison EOS it’s human rights and
all that crap EOS no, it’s good EOS oh, I always thought back of the
head was worse EOS I can imagine EOS I suppose they’re trying to
protect people who are constantly abused EOS if they’re gonna be
constantly abused then they’re just gonna be constantly- like, putting
a rule in saying ‘you can’t hit your kids’ isn’t gonna stop them EOS
erm, I dunno, my Mum was more of a slob than us, so it wasn’t too bad,
but you know what my Mum’s like, she’s she only did like, the pots and
the tea every now and again, it didn’t really matter to be honest, we
were more we all did our bit and that EOS you have to do anything? ah,
my Mum was pretty cool with all that, I think she did most of it EOS
think she just erm, made us clean our rooms, and any mess that we left
out she, like, we cleaned that up EOS but she did the rest EOS ‘sort
it out’ EOS that’s quite good that EOS mine would be if **anon**
wasn’t in it all the time EOS she’s so messy EOS yeah, I live at me
own in **anon** at the moment, and it’s just bliss, it’s just like,
nobody makes a mess EOS and then, if I make a mess I clean it up like
pretty much straight away anyway so EOS I do miss **anon** like but
she comes round and visits me, and I’m round here more than anything,
I think EOS yeah, it’s alright, you can- like, it looks like there’s a
really, really clean patch just on this wheel arch where I managed to
scrape it up the wall EOS and it’s just got a different coloured paint
on at the moment EOS oh it’s only like a little scratch, but, yeah,
it’s alright EOS I’ve had a erm, just had me car insurance EOS but I
pay it in one EOS it was well, the renewal price was one, six then
erm, I changed to Admiral for like an ultra low mileage EOS so, and
then it got it down to one, four, and then I put **anon** on it, and
it went- knocked it down to one three I was like EOS that’s brill, but
they’ve now got a tracker in it to check my mileage EOS I’ve got it on
it, yeah but it’s- all they do is just check how many miles you do in
the year, and if you go over then you gotta pay a premium cos I said
I’ll only do five thousand miles EOS which is why it went cheaper but
if my car ever gets stolen or anything I can like phone them up and
say, ‘can you just- my car’s been stolen can you-’ EOS yeah, turn the
tracker on EOS and then they give it all to the police, and the police
go and find EOS ahh, have you not like, dropped it or anything yet, I
can’t see any cracks actually EOS has it not EOS I think you did EOS
oh, you were going past weren’t you? ‘I’m on a bike’ EOS I really want
a motorbike now, what? I have but it’s EOS yeah, probably until like,
we get our own place and that, cos EOS I could put it in the back
garden at the moment, but EOS it’s cost as well EOS if I could get rid
of my car then I would, but I can’t for EOS my tax is nearly that,
road tax what was your road- oh, it’s about two hundred and fifty five
I think EOS it’s probably about five or something- don’t laugh, it’s
not funny EOS no, it is well worth it, I would do it, but I need a car
to get EOS yeah wait ‘til snow comes in winter- a cheap one, insure it
for a month or something? get on **anon** EOS oh, that’s good EOS I
can imagine **anon** on a motorbike EOS get her a sidecar for yoursone, two, three, four, five EOS cool, right, go on EOS erm, don’t even
know, I can’t even remember being young EOS erm young do you remember
our Science lessons, they were well good EOS fun, fun, fun EOS I know,
I was talking to **anon** the other day about erm, **anon** and how
she used to send everyone to the unit EOS oh right, I think he works
at Wetherspoons, cos I went in there and he ID’d me, and I was like,
‘I was in your year at school’ EOS I was just like, ‘hiya **anon**’
EOS and **anon** mm EOS good who was your favourite teacher at school?
yeah, that makes sense EOS **anon** was pretty good though, he was
funny **anon** EOS problem rubbish at woodwork EOS I remember I made
one for my Dad, you know that frame, with a flower EOS for valentine’s
day EOS I don’t know why I made it my Dad EOS it’s a bit weird that,
now that I think about it, it’s a bit weird yeah, and now I don’t know
where it is but, I made EOS I made a plane EOS but I don’t know where
it’s gone EOS I think it’s like, left it in the old house EOS what,
your plane? money box? Yeah EOS oh, we made a money box EOS I’m sure I
did, cos I’m sure I put nuts in it EOS he’s growing up, really, really
quick EOS he’s so cute EOS aww, he’s gorgeous EOS aww, I used to like
that EOS in a weird way EOS go like, ‘oh yeah, this is mine’ EOS you
like giving them back though EOS makes me laugh ahh, we went to Gap,
we went erm, on Saturday, went and took **anon** round, aww I took my
boyfriend round to see my family and then, you know them lanterns we
like, tried to light one of them lanterns EOS oh, it was the most
embarrassing thing EOS and it just- you know the bit, the square bit
what you light, it just fell off, I was like, ‘this is not good’ EOS
like, patting it out on the grass, I was like, oops EOS and then we
lit- finally lit one, and it like flew off, and then it was like stuck
in a tree EOS we was like, ‘oh my God, it’s gonna set the tree on
fire’ EOS ‘it’s gonna set the tree on fire’ but then, it like flew off
and we was like- my Granddad was stood there going, ‘I’m not happy
about this, I’m not happy about this, it’s gonna set next door on
fire’ EOS I was like, ‘Granddad, chill out, it’ll blow away soon’ EOS
it was so funny oh it was funny EOS they was, ahh they didn’t really
see him cos I was like, ‘no, we’ll go and sit in this room’ EOS ‘I
don’t really wanna sit with all them’, cos they wouldn’t stop EOS you
know what they’re like EOS no, she said she was gonna be cos she
didn’t- w- she said I think she was alright going round to **anon** or
something EOS then she was like, ‘I don’t really fancy going out’ I
was like, ‘ooh, go round to Gran’s, I’ll be there at about eight’
she’s like, ‘right, okay, I’ll see you there then’, and she just
didn’t turn up, I was EOS so I was sat there with **anon** with all
the kids EOS was- it was great EOS proper getting terrored though ooh,
they just bully me all the EOS yeah, they’re just like, ‘oh, he seems
lovely’, I was like, ‘he is’ EOS that’s a long time that isn’t it?
ahh, that’s just mean EOS would be embarrassing you’d be like, ‘it’s
not mine’ EOS ‘I’m just walking it’ EOS oh it’s hard talking when you
don’t really kn- like EOS I can’t think of anything to say EOS apart
from that not really EOS I think- no, I thi- actually I think I joined
the rounders team, I was pretty good at rounders, was quite- the only
thing I was good at EOS I know, and you didn’t really do anything, you
just stood in the gym going, ‘hm, champ’ EOS on the- on the running
machine, and you’re just having a stroll EOS it was good EOS I don’t,
I just don’t- I just don’t do exercise, it’s not really for me I don’t
think EOS did you ever do drama? neither did I, right but everyone’s
got like a lesson now, full of drama, like just for drama EOS cos
**anon** was like, ‘oh yeah, we was in drama the other day’ I was
like, ‘you had drama?’ cos we didn’t have it EOS I was like, ‘oh, I
would’ve liked drama’ EOS no, I would of, yeah EOS quite good at
acting I think EOS you know, right, on the first day, I remember Mum
walks me and **anon** to the bus stop, then stood there until the bus
came, it was so EOS and then she like asked one of the year elevens,
she was like, ‘oh, will you take care of these and make sure they get
to school alright’ I was like, fucks sake, ‘Mum, this is so
embarassing’ EOS no, you had it the wrong way EOS just tie it in a
knot EOS we used to, right, you know when, like, year seven you had
them little tiny ones then year eleven you got them big huge ones EOS
oh God don’t know what we was thinking EOS we had blazers EOS I quite
like my blazer, I’m not gonna lie EOS I looked pretty good in it EOS
and your blazer EOS it was horrible you couldn’t just take it off, no
EOS I know, it was horrible, like on the- we were allowed to on the
yard EOS I know ‘no, you can’t’ EOS I’m going to anyway, so EOS I
remember when **anon** made me cry EOS ah, that was horrible, cos
like, I’d had a really bad morning, you know like with my Mum and
stuff EOS and then I went in, and I was wearing a leather jacket, and
I was thinking, ‘ahh’, and I saw her walking down the corridor towards
me, I was like, ‘oh my God, she’s gonna say something’ EOS and I was
stood there, and I was like, and she was like, going at me in my face,
and I was like, ‘uhh, shut up’, and then I just cried, I was like,
‘ahh’ EOS it was horrible she went, ‘right, take- ta- take your jacket
off’, I went, ‘it’s raining outside’, she went, ‘I don’t care, take
your jacket off’, I was like EOS you know when you’re wearing pants
white socks EOS cause like but, why would you wear white socks? but
everyone used to just wear black socks anyway, and in EOS year eleven
we were allowed to weren’t we? I don’t know, she went EOS it’s alright
with a skirt, because EOS it looks alright, but, ahh, it’s like EOS
yeah used to get told off for it all the time black socks looked nice
though EOS **anon** do you remember, cos you used to roll your skirt
up didn’t EOS si- so it’s not like, down below your knee EOS and she
stopped me and **anon** in the hall, and she was like, ‘right, girls,
have you got your skirts rolled up?’ I was like, ‘no, it just won’t go
past my hip’ like, she was like, ‘that’s clearly a lie’, I was like,
‘okay’ EOS and she was like, ‘right, lift your s- lift your shirts up,
I wanna see your skirts’ EOS I was like EOS and then we’d walk past
and she’d make us do our ties, have our skirts long, ah, it was so
embarrassing, and you’d walk down the corridor and you’d be like, roll
it back up EOS mm oh God, wouldn’t mind it with pants though, just
looked silly with a skirt EOS tuck it under your jumper EOS I’m not
gonna lie, I quite liked school uniform, cos it was green EOS but
that’s only cos it’s like my favourite colour EOS I like wanted a
green car but EOS the only one I could get was blue EOS my Dad, the
other day came round and he’s got a green car, I was EOS ‘oh right,
you couldn’t find me a green car, but you could get yourself a green
car’ EOS yeah, I went, ‘can we swap’, he went, ‘Claudia **anon**, the
insurance on this is gonna be sky high’, I was like, sky high already
EOS I don’t know what I’d do now if I didn’t have a car EOS they’re
horrible, cos I don’t walk anywhere, ever EOS I don’t know what I’d
do, I’d probably just sit in the house all the EOS she got in the car
and I went, ‘Erin **anon**, do you even know me?’, the last time I got
the bus was EOS funny I can’t decide whether I like him or not EOS
with my Mum EOS and my Gran and my Granddad EOS I know, Mum was like-
my Mum- Mum was like, ‘are you ready to hit the town with me’ I was
EOS then me Aunty yesterday she was like, ‘what if your Mum pulled’, I
was like, so, I went, ‘I’m not even going out with her’ EOS ‘what if
she pulled?’ EOS couldn’t even imagine it EOS ahh she’s dead excited
though don’t know why, she was like, ‘ahh, it’s gonna be a holiday
with just us’, I was like, ‘yeah’ EOS yeah, it should be alright,
wouldn’t really do anything EOS sit by the pool, relax EOS in the rain
EOS God, it’s horrible EOS well you’ll just have to drink on your own
again EOS it’s like four months away EOS my cousin told me, he went,
what did he say? He said there’s something like hundred and thirty
three days or something, I was like EOS it’s a bit- bit precise there
EOS not been counting down or anything EOS I’m not really that excited
for Christmas anymore EOS I don’t know EOS like, last year was a bit
of a let down EOS oh, I don’t know either EOS erm, a Nintendo DS
actually EOS I know, I’ve- and I’ve used it like twice EOS I hate
that, I was like, ‘**anon**, do you wanna buy this off me’ EOS he was
like, ‘no, I’ve only g- I’ve got my own’, I was like, ‘oh’ EOS
alright, ebay it is EOS I was talking to **anon** last night, I was
like, ‘got any gossip about **anon** from school?’ it- she was like,
‘not really’, I was like, ‘how can you not have gossip about someone’
EOS got kicked out of **anon** didn’t he EOS erm, long story,
basically he set a bin on fire and then EOS and then apparently he
tried to put it out with deodorant, I was EOS ‘what an idiot’ EOS
you’re not- right- he’s not stupid is he? clearly know that it’s gonna
make the fire worse EOS I think so, and that’s even worse, cos like
could’ve set the whole classroom on fire EOS I was like, ‘what- what
are you even thinking when you do this stuff?’ he was like, ‘I don’t
know, I just do it’, I was like, yeah he- but he keeps saying, ‘other
people were with me’, and I was like, ‘well, why didn’t you say that?’
he went, ‘cos I didn’t wanna tell- tell off anyone’, I was like,
‘probably wouldn’t have got kicked out then if it was other people’
EOS mm but I don’t- I don’t think he’s bothered really cos he’s got
like loads of friends now, cos they are, cos obviously, the people
from **anon** live in **anon** EOS so, now he goes to the one **anon**
he’s got all his mates in EOS so, it’s pretty good and he’s always out
now, so like EOS got the house to myself in the day, when he’s off,
and it’s like- I know boring though EOS Mum keeps telling me to move
out, she’s like, ‘so when are you gonna get a full time job’ EOS ‘when
are you moving out?’, ‘Mum, I don’t know’, ‘you need to think about it
don’t you’, I was like EOS oh God do you remember him, on that magic
show? What was it called? it is a little bit sad, a little bit sad EOS
oh, yeah which one was that one that died? Was he out of Art Attack?
Or Smart? Was it Smart? Oh EOS what did you do in your summer holidays
like, in school? no, in school EOS you know where **anon** is, you
know she’s got that big field outside EOS we used to sit on there in
the summer, like, just sit there EOS I can’t even remember what we
used to do, we used to just sit there, and you know when you used to
play music on your phone EOS who else, someone else did as well can’t
remember EOS ah, I remember the first Friday that I got drunk on the
park EOS it wasn’t very nice actually, it was quite scary EOS cause
like everyone else was out wasn’t they, and it’s like, mm, okay, so we
just went and sat on my friends grass outside her EOS and then my
friend, you know **anon** EOS I think that’s what he’s called EOS yeah
he like jumped on the cars and like ran across them EOS we was like,
‘oh my God you can’t do that’ EOS oh my God, I was like, I didn’t know
what to do, I was like, ‘**anon** probably should get down’ but yeah,
and then I think it- I think it was **anon** who got beat up that
night EOS and him and **anon** and **anon** mm, they got together, but
like, didn’t really get together EOS I know it was weird EOS they like
kissed and everything and then, just nothing, I was EOS it was
alright, cos they both liked each other, you could proper tell but
then nothing EOS I know, mm, in a bush EOS I thought you was gonna say
summet else then EOS I don’t know EOS she’s lucky all the time EOS
it’s cos you’ve got none left EOS it’s good that isn’t it EOS I think
it’s like eighteen in Tesco EOS went round on Friday, I thought, ‘I’ll
have a bit, ‘go on, I’ll share’ EOS she went, ‘it’s alright, we’ll
walk to Asda from Selfridges’, right, and then we got there, it was
like, ‘we’re gonna have to carry all these bags through the Trafford
Centre back to the car’ EOS cause I was like walking to the car, and
she went, ‘Claudia **anon** where you going? We’re going Selfridges’,
I was like, ‘what do you mean, I’m gonna get my car, to drive to
Asda’, she went, ‘no, we’ll walk, we’ll walk’ EOS yeah and then I
think- you can see us walking all the way to Debenhams and thinking
EOS it’s the other end EOS Peter Andre makes me laugh EOS ah, I wish
he was my Dad EOS I don’t know EOS I’m so excited EOS yeah, have you
seen the bit where Neil’s dancing in that club? doing the robot? oh my
God, it’s so funny EOS ah, I’ve seen loads of different ones, like-
where he squirts aftershave down his pants and then screams, yeah EOS
I can imagine that’d hurt EOS where he’s got- he’s carrying the door
around with him EOS ahh, I don’t understand why he carries it round
with him EOS why doesn’t he just like, leave it on the car, it’s not
gonna make a difference whether he’s still got it or not EOS and no-
one’s really gonna steal a door EOS someone’d steal the car, cos it’s
not got a door EOS I even got a suntan, I was like, ahh, come on
suntan EOS just, and then I thought, I’m gonna have to top it up with
fake tan EOS ball pits, ahh EOS I’d always be scared of going in there
you know, cos kids are in there, and they EOS like could poo and EOS
no, I’m not even bothered about, ooh, imagine like eurgh, an EOS in
the ball pit EOS no, have you seen, ah, do you watch the Big Bang
Theory? Oh, it’s so funny that, have you seen the one where Sheldon
goes in the ball pit, oh it’s so funny, and he’s like going down, and
then Leonard’s trying to catch him and he pops up and he goes, ‘the
zinger’ EOS so funny, oh, I love Sheldon makes me laugh EOS having fun
in a ball pit EOS proper fancy McDonalds EOS no, I had Chin- oh my
God, went Trafford Centre, had a Chinese, and it was so spicy EOS my
mouth was on fire EOS oh it re- I was sat there with every mouthful
just going EOS was really nice though EOS I actually ate all of it you
know EOS got to really EOS it was five ninety-nine EOS it weren’t too
bad EOS no, I took them back right, I don’t know why, I was craving
peanuts EOS it’s a weird thing, and I ate about four, and then I
thought, I don’t even want them anymore EOS so then I took them round
to my Gran’s seventieth, and I was like, ‘I’ve got some peanuts here’,
she was like, ‘ooh, put some in bowls’, I was like, ‘alright’ EOS ah
knew I should’ve got the small bag EOS it was a huge bag, it was like
this big EOS you know they don’t do chocolate erm, peanuts in Asda EOS
I know, I w- that’s what I was looking for, I was like, cos I wanted
some chocolate ones, you know, cos they’re nice EOS and didn’t have
any EOS I was like, ‘oh’, gutted EOS little bit erm EOS I was talking
to **anon** about the toilets in school EOS do you remember when
everyone used to go in and smoke in them EOS it’s like, do you
remember **anon** used to bring- used to bring a toilet roll into
school? cos he used to always have a poo EOS in school, I was like,
‘ooh, that’s nasty’ EOS some lad poo- did he poo himself? ah, that’s
disgusting EOS ah that- ah that’d be so embarrassing EOS ew do you
remember **anon** EOS cause he was- was he diabetic or something? and
he used to say that he needed like, chocolate so EOS someone came in
with a bar of chocolate, he’d be like, ‘you’re not allowed to eat that
in here’ so he’d take it off them EOS and then eat it himself, and
it’s like, ‘didn’t pay for that or EOS I know God I seen him the other
day actually EOS yeah where did I see him? think it was Trafford
Centre didn’t know who he was EOS did you ? in high school she used to
have jam butties every single day EOS ahh, them paninis in college,
they were nice should’ve tried one, they were nice EOS ham and cheese
panini EOS mm, could- oh, I could eat one of them now EOS oh God, yeah
EOS I don’t think I’ve failed any EOS but I don’t think I dunno don’t
think I’ve done really badly just not great EOS it’s hard though,
isn’t it EOS yeah I don’t wanna go in EOS and see all my teachers
though EOS cause they’ll be like, ‘oh what did you get, what did you
get’ and I’m like, ‘an E’ EOS they’ll just be like, ‘oh’ EOS mm it’s
better than E, let’s put it that way EOS but if you wanna go Uni and
stuff it is important, isn’t it? well, I can’t wait for everyone’s
fresher’s week EOS just gonna, go around EOS don’t know actually EOS
mm I think I’m coming down to Leeds EOS mm, I know, I went out with
him, I think it was not last Friday, the Friday before, and I lost my
phone EOS I know the only time I go out with my cousins, and I loose
my EOS no I know, in **anon** as well EOS and I bet someone who took
it, cos I think someone took it, cause like, I rang it and it was off,
and I was like, ‘someone’s took it’ ah, was so upset EOS I was so
upset EOS erm, just round **anon**, like EOS yeah and then I think, it
was a- cos we went to a pizza place, you know, like you do EOS after
you’ve been out you get a bit peckish EOS so- so I must’ve like put my
phone down EOS and got really excited about this pizza EOS and then
just forgot that my phone was there, but I went back the day after and
they was like, ‘oh no, we’ve not seen it, we’ve not seen it’, I was
like, ‘probably took it haven’t you’ EOS so, and I went into all the
pubs and everything, but, no EOS mm so now I’ve gotta save up for
another one EOS and I’m skint EOS cause you can win it EOS I don’t
know EOS I know, you should really put it on if you wanna win it EOS
it sort of helps EOS yeah, yeah, little bit EOS Mum puts it on every
week and I’d- I’d like to think that if she won, she’d give me a
little bit EOS I don’t know where they get that spare pound from EOS I
never have a spare pound, it’s always in my car ah EOS no, she wins
like a fiver or something EOS someone who was in my Psychology last
year, he’s got like a gambling EOS he’s like, how old is he? I think
he’s like twenty, and he’s got a gambling problem, I was like how can
you even get one at twenty EOS cos he went, ‘I just go to the casinos
every weekend’, and I’m like, ‘why? W-Where do you even get money from
to do that?’ EOS wish I had money to go to a casino but no EOS having
a car rinses your money EOS like anything I have like one night out a
month EOS I know, it’s horrible but it’s so expensive insurance, it’s
EOS **anon** got quoted nine thousand pound EOS to go on my car, and I
was like, it’s not exactly a big car EOS nine thousand, I was like EOS
I don’t know EOS I don’t know, I think it’s cos he’s a boy, but it’s
meant to have gone the same isn’t it EOS so, it should really be the
same, cos we’re both the same age EOS I don’t know, it’s the same car
EOS erm, just under three EOS it’s not exactly EOS no, I know, I was
like ‘are you sure you did it right?’, and he was like, ‘yeah’ ‘hm,
alright’ nine grand ah talking to **anon** about my scars, cos I’ve
got loads all over my EOS cos I was just clumsy EOS I’m just clumsy
all the time, never broke anything EOS but I’ve got cuts and, ah, I’ve
got about four bruises now, and I’ve no idea where they’ve come from
EOS it’s like, all over me I m- I must like fall over a lot EOS but I
just don’t remember EOS told I told **anon** about **anon**, you know
**anon**, well, everyone knows **anon**, and he was like, ‘really’, I
was like, ‘yeah, really’ EOS yeah, she’s got a- she came to my Gran’s
thing on Saturday and she had purple hair EOS purple tights, and I was
like EOS ‘do you think she’s like purple at the moment?’ EOS but then
she had pink crocs on, I was like, what are you doing with your life?
and then you know, we all had like, stickers on, name tags EOS just in
case people didn’t know who we are EOS as it’s asked the whole family
EOS it was like, ‘this is ridiculous’, and erm, **anon** came EOS
‘**anon**, **anon** partner’, I was like, ‘ooh, cringe’ EOS ahh,
disgusting, right she had all her hair, cos she’s grown her hair, she
had it all scraped back in a pony EOS and she had a suit on, not a
sui- not a suit, like a shirt and jeans, and I was like she’s proper-
if you didn’t know that she was a girl, she’s- she’s a man EOS she
looks like a man EOS it’s like, ‘oh my God’, it’s embarrassing EOS ah,
it’s embarrassing EOS I was telling him, and he was like, ‘oh right’
he went, ‘my cousins- my sisters a lesbian’ I was like, ‘oh, right’
‘thanks’ EOS go round to his house, and they like they they’ll sit and
talk about her, she’s not- she doesn’t live there EOS and they’ll sit
and talk about her and it- they’ll be dead horrible about her, and
it’s like ‘that’s a bit harsh’ EOS so, I don’t know what to say but
they swear, all the time his family EOS and I’m sat there, cos, we
don’t swear, well, do sometimes but like, not in front of like your
Mum EOS and I was like, sat there and they just, ah, every other word,
and I was like, ‘oh my God, I don’t know what to do’ EOS I’m just sat
there like EOS ‘alright’ cos it’s dead weird they’re dead nice though
EOS my mouth’s dead dry now from talking EOS yeah, I’ve still got some
EOS I think the weather is making- it’s making my lips dead dry EOS
and then they’re dead sore EOS what are local people like? not very
friendly, not really EOS ew, from the toilet, you can get free water
from the bar EOS oh, **anon** there’s always this- I think- I think
he’s like homeless and he wears like, joggers and then a coat, and
that’s it, and it’s like ‘mmm’, it’s a bit digusting EOS and he’ll sit
with a pint, the whole night, the same pint the whole EOS it’s like, I
don’t even know how it lasts that longone, two, three, four, five EOS I don’t need a pen EOS what is your
best or funniest memory from when you were young? no, neither can I
EOS yeah, I love Science, mm EOS ah glad we don’t go school anymore
though EOS doesn’t it feel weird saying that? **anon** EOS isn’t it, I
said **anon**- I saw **anon** and it felt well weird saying **anon**
the other day EOS no, it were- we weren’t in Wetherspoons, was with
**anon** and they were walking past the pub that I was in, can’t
remember which pub it EOS yeah, it’s well weird seeing some- yeah, I
saw him yesterday I was like, ‘hi’, and like, ‘you work here?’ and
then **anon** told me like, **anon** EOS don’t think I had one EOS oh,
do you remember woodwork do you remember doing woodwork EOS mine were
always shocking EOS I didn’t do that EOS we didn’t do that EOS I’ve
still got some of my stuff EOS I’ve got my plane, painted it pink EOS
mines at m- my house EOS oh, I’ll have to show you actually when you
come round to my house EOS I still got it, and there’s a little box
thing that I made, it was EOS no it was just a normal box and with a
lid EOS and like, it’s not like even sort of thing, it’s a bit wonky
EOS and painted that was painted mostly pink as well, don’t know EOS I
remember making the bird feeders and th- you never put the thing on it
EOS and we never got it back, so, I was a bit gutted at the time EOS
you probably did, I- I was gutted that I didn’t get it back EOS yeah,
he’s alright EOS I can’t believe he’s one one EOS we’re walking round
Trafford Centre, erm, and my sister was trying to get some trainers or
something, so me and **anon** are walking round Trafford Centre and
some of the looks we were getting, like we were EOS which reminds me
right, on Saturday, I was at **anon** Granddad’s club and I was with
this little kid, babysitting sort of thing while person was working
behind the bar, so I sat there with it, and some of the looks I was
getting as well then EOS like it was my kid, **anon** sat next to me,
well funny EOS yeah, when the babies are right there it sort of does
make you want a kid but then EOS but then after that, there was this
little kid- there was this little kid, and bloody screaming I thought,
‘yep, that makes you not want a kid’ EOS they are cute though EOS they
always say that don’t they EOS everyone loves my boyfriend EOS more
than me probably EOS been nearly three years EOS gone quick though EOS
look at them dogs EOS imagine walking that down the road? can imagine
the owner having that colour hair as well couldn’t you? dressed to
match EOS it is under pressure EOS did you ever do anything after
school? no, neither did I, I don’t think EOS yeah, I didn’t like PE, I
only liked it when we started going to the EOS me and you are just
stood there like this EOS we were just there talking weren’t we EOS go
to the gym now though actually take it serious EOS I’d hate it EOS
what, in like year seven and everything? I think it’s cos it’s an arts
and thingy college EOS at erm, school, isn’t it EOS what you liked it
or didn’t? hate these adverts EOS that’s just reminded me of something
that, on my first day, I got my sister to do my tie, cos y- y- you
didn’t have it the right way, did EOS you had that little, small bit
there EOS so now I did that, got to form, had **anon**, do you
remember **anon**? she bloody made us blooming undo it EOS I didn’t
know how to do a bloody tie neither EOS so I was there, undone this
tie, and I’m thinking, ‘how do you do EOS too- t- t- took me ages to
figure out- get used to doing it EOS yeah, but it was dead small like
EOS I know, just as we come they got the blazers as well EOS no,
that’s what I mean, just as we got there, that’s when they got EOS cos
my sister didn’t have to have one until we started coming, our year,
they just brought them in EOS it had places to put things EOS it was
horrible in summer though when they made you wear your jumper EOS and
you had to ask to take it off EOS it was stupid yeah, but like, in
classrooms though it’s always warmer isn’t it EOS but they’re not
exactly gonna say no are they well, they can’t EOS so I don’t know why
you had to ask EOS you’re still gonna take it off EOS remember getting
the cream eggs actually at Easter EOS it’s cos you had to wear a black
coat EOS how embarra- I hate that EOS and them white socks EOS they
look ridiculous EOS it looks alright, but EOS pants, black, white,
black EOS was really strict actually if you think about it EOS do you
remember? cos they used to pick at anything didn’t they EOS ‘don’t do
this, don’t do that’ EOS remember when they used to make you tuck your
shirts in as EOS normally had a jumper on over it so you couldn’t tell
anyway EOS so they didn’t normally notice, unless it was like, hanging
out EOS see they’re the things I don’t miss about school EOS you can
paint it, paint it EOS I know I need a car EOS I need a job first
actually EOS passed in December and no car still EOS that’s the thing
EOS it’s like that with **anon** though, because I always get lifts
everywhere so th- that time when his car weren’t working, it was EOS
just like not having your car for a week EOS ah, I can’t believe I
dreamt that you said that you were getting the EOS yeah, I had to
check my messages EOS in my dream I read a text saying, ‘I’m just
leaving a bit earlier cos I’m getting the bus down’ so I was think- I
remember thinking, ‘oh, what’s wrong with her car then?’ EOS and I had
to look and I think it- it weren’t there EOS well that’s what I
thought was weird EOS hmm not watched- I need to catch up on corrie
actually went to Ibiza EOS so I’ve missed everything EOS It was good
actually EOS Claudia’s **anon** going away in October aren’t you?
‘that’s what I want’ EOS ah, that’s horrible that EOS better than
being over here anyway EOS will be in October anyway EOS Mum and Dad
go away the same time as she goes away EOS I know ahh, can’t wait for
Christmas, can’t wait for Chris- it’s nearly Christmas EOS it is
actually, cos it is the eighth month isn’t it, I didn’t know it was
that close actually EOS I’m still like a little kid at Christmas, wake
up dead early EOS I don’t even know what I got, what did you get? I
don’t know why I even know what I get anymore EOS ooh, I wanna know
what I got now, I can’t think EOS what did you get for Christmas EOS I
wonder what **anon** actually like in school EOS I remember you
telling me that he got kicked out of that other school EOS he’s meant
to be the brainy one as well EOS I love having the house to myself EOS
I’m glad my sister’s moved out actually EOS she moved out at Christmas
EOS ‘stop pushing me’ EOS yeah tricky TV- tricky TV, yeah, it’s sad
that I know that EOS do you remember Art Attack? That was good EOS I
used to love watching all them programmes EOS erm, like now? oh, in
school EOS I dunno, bit far away to remember EOS used to go out with
**anon** was **anon** and **anon** and all that go out with us EOS I
think I remember him coming into school actually EOS saying that he
was beat up EOS or summet on them lines EOS God, I remember that EOS
remember when **anon** and **anon** were together actually EOS and
they went into a bush t- just to kiss EOS bloody hell you look back
now and you’re like, what the hell EOS at least United won yesterday
anyway I weren’t paying much attention to the match EOS I was just
drinking EOS yeah, drinking from twelve ‘til like nine EOS I got very
drunk, no, I don’t get hangovers to be honest but EOS I’ve not stopped
drinking f- since I’ve back- been back off holiday, I come back on f-
was it EOS Friday morning so, went for ten days and I’ve not stopped
EOS this is me first day that I’m not having a drink EOS b- I have, I
have, I’ve not drank any at- th- that was all spent at EOS ah, I’ve
still got that vodka at home, got a litre bottle of vodka, ten ninety
five euro EOS so I- I thought, ‘right, I’ll get that’ EOS did, didn’t
we went- went to Trafford Centre, then went to Asda, had to carry all
the bags, through- back to the Trafford Centre EOS and then when we -
I forgot that we weren’t at- parked at Asda as well until like we just
got hold of the bags, I thought, ‘oh, we’ve gotta walk through EOS we
both didn’t know where we were going, I was gonna walk out a blooming
different exit, weren’t I EOS to try and get to Asda EOS and it’s
through Selfridges EOS and we had to find which way it was, cos it- we
were parked, was it at John Lewis? I know we always get mixed up
between EOS like Debenhams and John Lewis EOS it’s at the other end
EOS I want Celebrity Juice to come back on actually EOS is that not
back on next month, I’m sure it’s September it comes back EOS makes me
laugh though Inbetweeners is out on the seventeenth, I can’t wait to
watch that EOS well the only bloody trailer I’ve seen, which was a
while ago now, cos I remember looking on youtube was where they’re
just bloody walking through a town, weren’t the greatest trailer EOS
just watching them walk, I was thinking, ‘this is a great time to
advertise a film’ you know, if someone’s not seen it EOS oh, I’m gonna
have to search it now EOS ah, you should paint your door a different
colour EOS cause there’s just one door isn’t there that’s different
EOS you never know EOS can’t believe I’ve come back to Manchester and
it’s horrible, was nice while I was away EOS well, come back and it’s
horrible again EOS oh, do you remember them EOS when you used to go to
like Wacky Warehouse or something, and big ball pools and stuff EOS
you went down the slide and went straight into EOS I never thought
about that EOS I thought you were gonna say kids hiding EOS Claudia
**anon** y- don’t even know what they’re doing in there EOS you had it
the other day didn’t you actually? Oh no, you didn’t EOS you had that
Chinese didn’t you, I forgot EOS you still ate it EOS six pound and-
did you eat all them peanuts you got? you’re like, there’s not-
there’s- there’s not enough in this one EOS it was huge though that
bag EOS there was none EOS yep, th- the ones were worse near- round
that other side EOS where they always played football, can’t think of
where it was EOS I don’t remember this EOS was it **anon** had that
rumour EOS don’t know if it is true EOS used his boxers as well to
wipe EOS apparently it was all over the toilet seat and everything EOS
ah, the Art teacher? took everyone’s chocolate and food and EOS and
then didn’t give it them back EOS and eat it himself EOS didn’t give
him money, didn’t give him money or anything, just took it off him EOS
I used to love tomato ketchup actually EOS don’t worry, it was the
advert EOS anyone listening to this is gonna think I’m really random
EOS don’t like it no more though EOS I dunno, I think it- I might-
must’ve had it too much when I was EOS and gone off it EOS I am really
fussy EOS I just don’t like anything on my sandwich, do I? and now I
just have bread and butter cos there’s too much sugar in EOS well
that’s when I go to- when I went college and stuff EOS don’t think I
would’ve liked them EOS ahh, why don’t you go college and get one EOS
not that it’s gonna be open but still EOS get one when we go and get
r- our results next Thursday EOS it’s so close EOS I haven’t got a
clue EOS it’s annoy- it’s annoying though when people get good grades
and they’re like, ‘this is really shocking’ EOS you know when like,
say they get a B or an A or like, C or summet, and they’re like, ‘oh,
this is rubbish this’, and it’s like, it’s not EOS aye, I need two B’s
and a C to get in Uni EOS hopefully I will EOS I know I can’t, but I
don’t if it’s before the like, actually Uni starts, I want my money
EOS but they’re not gonna give me my money, are they? cause I need it
EOS otherwise I won’t be going out much in the beginning EOS now she’s
got a Samsung, her old phone EOS you do anyway EOS yeah, they probably
did EOS yay, fun times EOS why are they all pound signs on this map?
wish I could win EOS when I win the lottery, just don’t put it on
though EOS I hope to win it, just don’t put it on EOS yeah, my M- my
Mum and Dad put it on every week EOS you hardly ready- for anything
though on it, do they? every now and again they’ll win a tenner or
something EOS makes me laugh EOS made me laugh on holiday, you know
like the fruit machines and stuff that you get over here EOS **anon**
decided to go on a foreign one, didn’t understand it EOS but yeah, he
decided to keep putting more and more money in it EOS yeah wish I had
a job EOS always is these days EOS who would pay that? you wouldn’t
pay nine grand though EOS oh I always get bruises EOS I’ve still got
that bite on my leg it’s still like, you run over my leg and it’s like
a proper bad bump, it’s horri- horrible, hate them EOS Claudia’s
**anon** is in the car EOS ‘**anon**, **anon** granddaughter’ EOS she
looks like a man doesn’t she EOS oh, has she grown it? well, she’s
starting to grow her hair EOS at least you get on with them EOS yeah
aye, I get on with all his family EOS ah, so tired EOS want my bed EOS
my mouth was worse cos I was drinking yesterday EOS my throat was dead
sore cos it was dry the other day EOS ah, that reminds me, in the pub
yesterday I was just sat at this table, **anon** and his Dad were
stood at the bar there- this was just at **anon** EOS this was like at
twelve o’clock and EOS this lad called **anon** EOS and this old man
there, so I was- I was just sat there, this per- lad comes in all cuts
down his arm, self harmer EOS blood shot eyes, looked like he was on
God knows what, come in, came up to me and went, ‘have you got any-
any money? Spare pound or something for a drink? I’m shaking, I been
out all night, soaking wet through, I need a drink’, I was like, ‘no’
EOS I went, ‘no’, and th- then they went over to **anon** and his Dad
an- and asked them, they were like, ‘no’, then he went, ‘right, just
gonna go toilet to get a drink of water’ and EOS **anon** went into
the toilet, and all the basins were dry, so I bet he was trying to
like get money out of the machine thing, you know, like cos they have
them machines in the toilets, trying to see if there was money in them
EOS it wouldn’t with me anyway EOS I drink like a fishcount to five EOS okay, whenever you’re ready EOS is that your
brother? did they like your boyfriend? was **anon** there? try one of
them I always think I don’t like they’re- they’re alright EOS you’re
really hot though EOS ‘keep it on’ EOS but why would you have to wear
white socks? Michael Jackson style EOS how was it? did you go with
friends? oh, very nice EOS so you’re not going clubbing? I don’t want
to EOS it will be nice EOS ahh, you’re gonna be lonely EOS turn the
light on, it’s getting dark EOS what was it one of the inside ones? a
group effort, yeah EOS did you go to the pub to watch it? oh no,
headache today EOS was that duty free? yeah, it’s further than you
think as well, isn’t it EOS the trailers look good don’t they EOS oh
yeah, I’ve seen that EOS yeah, we went to Thorpe Park on Friday and it
just reminded me of EOS yeah, you should EOS is it expensive? they do
or don’t EOS what do you not like? how do you feel? are you nervous?
it’s be- no, it’s not EOS what’s that for, your loan? it comes in just
before freshers EOS yeah, cos they count freshers as the start of term
EOS so you’ll have it, so EOS no, you’ll have fun, freshers is good
EOS have you got it back? is it your Blackberry? where did you go with
them? I’m sure she would EOS **anon** goes quite a lot to the casino
EOS why so much? how much is yours? are they from nights out? what,
from insects? have you seen her? Recently EOS do you get on with your
boyfriend’s parents? oh, that’s good EOS have you got water?You start off Fearne **anon** then. Were you happy at school? were
you, mm EOS You’re right, yeah. Yes. mm, yeah, yeah EOS Were you,
yeah? yeah, yeah, mm EOS And did you have what our school had, an
outside toilet? But it was cold in the winter EOS Yeah, mm, yeah. You
wouldn’t forget if you did, no EOS mm, you’ve been to Scot- yeah yeah.
Yeah yeah, yeah EOS Yeah yeah, yeah, yeah EOS Were you happy at
school? I hate- I hated it EOS Yeah yeah mm EOS Yes, that’s it- You’ve
got another brother, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It says here did you ever
get you ever get into trouble at school? No you didn’t . Not really
no. See I- I- I started school at **anon**. Was only there a year and
me parents said it wasn’t suitable cos of me problem with me speech.
They used to hit me over the head with a ruler to get the words out
and it made you wo- And then I went to **anon**. I don’t know if
you’ve ever heard of EOS it’s a- I loved it there. There was two
ladies that’s all who taught you. I didn’t like school with having the
problem with speech. It was- you know- but erm I went and as soon as
I- I was fourteen I EOS I just didn’t like it. So did I get into
trouble? No I don’t think I did. The only t- I- yeah I got six of the
best once. Well I used to write d- I used to go to s- erm the school
that **anon** and there’s always a bully- and I was riding me bike
back to school and he stopped me and he made me give him a lift on my
crossbar. And when I got to school- oh I got stopped- we got stopped
on the way there by a policeman. ‘Which school do you go to?’ So I
told him and the middle of the afternoon I was in the headmaster’s
office and I got six of the best. Caned for doing that. And lookayat
the world today. Just with having someone on- on your bike. On your
crossbar. Mm. I- I liked me childhood days yes because I was l- lucky
that our house was only about the- a couple of hundred yards off a
farm. And I was always on there and I love animals. And me favourite
animal’s the cow. It’s so laid back and- just like that the cow you
know. So I spent a- a lot of my- my time with animals on- on the farm
you know. I once- yeah I was still at school and there was a c- c-
couple of farms not- short distance. And the farmer asked me to go to
the other farm and erm excuse me. I was walking it and there’s some
ditches where all the water drains in- and there was a man on a bike
acting suspicious. So I- I watched him and then I went on and I caught
a butterfly in me EOS He cycled up to me then and said ‘what have you
got in your hand?’ I said ‘a butterfly’ He said erm, ‘let it go! You
don’t know what it’s like t- to be fastened up’. So I did and erm I
went to the other farm and walking back I went to have a lookayin this
ditch. And I found erm clothes, prison clothes . It was an escaped
prisoner. So I left them and I went to the police station in Urmston
and they said ‘have a lookayat will you at this bookayand see if you
can find him’. And I found him and they gave me five shillings. S- so
erm I can u- understand the story now with the butterfly and EOS S- so
that was on- one of my school stories anyway and erm I suppose there’s
a lot isn’t there really. But it wasn’t bad. I enjoyed me school i- in
a way. And erm and I’m a great believer your life’s mapped out EOS
because on the piece of land I live now I lived in nineteen thirty.
But this is a modern house now and there was an old house on there.
And I didn’t know when I bought this house exactly where I’d lived. So
I do believe y- your life in a way your pattern of life is led. You
know because I’m going to end up where I started off you know EOS Mm.
Have you got any more Fearne **anon** then them that you’ve thought
EOS Yeah, yeah, yeah. Is your mother from L- Lancashire or out of the
county? mm, you don’t really know. Do you know what happened in those
days? They would never tell you EOS Your parents. They kept s- secret.
I erm- when I was five I went to my Grandma’s funeral in **anon**. And
you weren’t allowed to see anything so I- I was taken for a walk in
the village. It was a lovely village. There was a stream and it was a
beautiful village and I was only five. And all me life I had this
picture of this village and whenever I asked my parents what it was
called ‘what do you want to know for?’ And I must’ve been about
seventy and we had a motorhome then. And I said to my wife ‘come on.
I’m going to find- the name of this village’. I knew where one of the
ancestors lived and we went into this erm village and they said ‘oh
you’d better ask at the postoffice he’ll know’. So we went in the
postoffice, says ‘I can’t help you. I’ve only been here two weeks’. So
he didn’t know any of the villagers. So an- anyway in the end we did
find a person of the surname that we were looking for. So we went
round to this house and as we- and I said to me wife ‘get out and ask
this lady walking down the path if they know a **anon**’. So she got
out and this lady says ‘come on in it’s me mother’. Yeah. And she told
me the name of the village. So after about seventy years I went back
and it still looked the same to me. But they had secrets they wouldn’t
tell you. ‘W- what do you want to know for?’ And erm- So I’m half
Lancashire and half Yorkshire. Mother’s from Yorkshire. Near **anon**.
And me dad’s from **anon** and he was a joiner. Erm me- m- mother w-
worked in service. What was called service in those days. She more or
less lived in the house and was responsible for the house. Looking
after it. Cleaning it, meals, everything you know EOS and in those
days it was called service. And she worked in **anon** EOS Erm not
much about school is there at the moment? Well I’m not asking how old
you are Fearne **anon** but - Were you at school in the war or- or af-
or after? Oh you missed it. Well no you were born in the war. mm, mm,
mm EOS Mm oh yeah. Yeah. Well the war started didn’t it in nineteen
thirty nine. And I was at **anon** school then- which overlooked the
canal. Oh the boats that went along there they were fabulous you know
it’s- you don’t see them now. They’ve all gone. Massive big boats with
a- a- a tug a- at the front to pull it. T- t- tug at the back to
steady it back you know- and the bridge used to swing EOS and that was
good there th- for a- w- watching that you know. So I- I was at school
when the war started and erm it was a queer time because all the
street signs were moved. All the lights were taken awa- no lights were
allowed to be on. All the cars had to have a light with a slit in it
only. It was a- a weird place didn’t it. All the names went didn’t
they. They were taken away and- and where I lived in **anon** there
was a barrage balloon site on the corner. And the barrage balloon was-
it was f- f- filled with gas and when the airraid came it used to go
into the air to stop aircraft d- diving down. Because we lived a short
distance from **anon**- which was erm industry in the war. And erm-
and when the wind was- if the barrage balloon went up and it was windy
the ba- the barrage balloon used to sway into our- our back garden you
know and erm yeah. You just were frightened to death you know and they
erm and leading to **anon** was big oil drums on the side of the road-
with a out. And the Germans used to follow the ship c- canal from L-
Liverpool- when the- the moonlight was out you can be sure there’s
going to be a raid you know. And you used to f- f- follow the moon No
left channel EOS up the canal and if the wind was blowing to Trafford
Park they used to light these oil drums so a mass of smoke went over
the park and they couldn’t find it. Yeah. So erm- I think I’ve lived
in the best time cos radio was still new. T- television had been
thought of but it had been put on one side because of the war. Buses
were always on time. Weren’t they Fearne **anon**? If you went out for
a bus- it was there. And you can erm- it was you know. Now what are
the most important changes in- in a- in your town? Well it’s changed-
we have no cinemas left. They’ve gone because my youth I used to go to
the cinema about twice EOS And when I got a little bit older, do you
remember Urmston baths? Not the old one. Well the Urmston baths in the
winter. They used to empty the water EOS put a wooden floor over it.
And it was sprung like a proper dance floor and they had dancing every
Saturday and Wednesday. And they had a big bands. About a fifteen
piece band that came every EOS That was fun. And you daren’t drink cos
if you’d had a drink a girl wouldn’t dance EOS It was very strict in
those days. So yeah U- Urmston’s v- very busy now. Whereas I can- one-
one memory I’ve got in the school days when the war started was me
mother pushing the pram with my sister in- down to Urmston a blackout
c- c- curtaining you know. Cos we had orders. We hadn’t got to sh- sh-
show any lights at all and- you had to have your windows blacked out
so nobody could see and that is one of the memories I’ve got. And then
the bombs dropping round you. It was a bit of a hectic time wasn’t it.
You never got a night in bed- without you were i- in- in a- a air raid
sh- shelter. No. Ours- ours was in the house. There was an Anderson
shelter- you’ve- have you heard of an Anderson? It’s all cast- and
it’s all iron metal. With four sides and a metal top. So if the bomb-
house fell on it it wouldn’t- you’d be safe inside there you know. We
had a wired mesh all around it like an- animals . And that was called-
and that was inside ours. The Anderson shelter. Yeah so it looked like
a part of the garden. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah th- they were scary days
weren’t they in a way EOS You know cos you didn’t know what’s going to
happen. Well as I said I didn’t like school. I moved house once. I
moved from where I live now to **anon** another part of **anon** where
me p- parents stayed until they p- passed away so- so they were there
a long time. I- I- I lived there ‘til I was twenty five. Cos there was
a lot going on in Urmston then. I went- with being stammering I was
very shy and reserved and I thought I’ve got to do summat about this.
So I went and had d- d- d- d- dancing lessons in Urmston. Yeah and I
enjoyed it and I’ve got all my medals for dancing . Yeah and that was
a way of b- bringing me out you know EOS Yeah. Mm. And then course you
were always g- going dancing and m- we had a milk bar in Urmston. Did
you- did you have a milk bar at all **anon**? They only sold
milkshakes. Mm. S- sh- shop’s still there now but they’ve run out of
milk. It’s EOS Yeah. I tell you what I was thinking of last night. I
knew what I wanted to do when I left school and as soon as I was
fourteen I was EOS And I wanted to be a lithographic printer. I was
always interested in printing all- this was nineteen forty four. There
was one year left of the war. But it was ending and there were
soldiers were arriving home then. So they had to have their old jobs
back. You c- I c- could not get a job EOS to be a lithographic
printer. So- I’m talking a lot aren’t I. So there was an advert in the
newspaper. The evening news. ‘Boy wanted to learn lithographic
printing’ Manchester. So I was there for eight o’clock and the job had
gone. Dear me. Anyway so they said ‘but we’ve got a vacancy in the
handwritten department’. Now don’t ask me what that was. So they- I
went along with them upstairs and they showed me. There was about nine
men working there all doing handwritten posters- which they did in
those days. I mean I can r- r- remember Urmston it was just full of
posters on the walls. Most of those were hand done. All- o- others
were lithographic printed so I started there. And erm to cut a long
story short I did that the rest of my life for fifty EOS But when I
worked there got a pound a week. And I’ve written this down because
I’d forget it wouldn’t I EOS I had to go on the bus to Manchester six
days a week. That cost me fifty four d, old p- pence a week. I had to
give me m- mother ninety p oh no d, of the old money. I used to go to
the pictures twice a week for th- th- thirty d. Thirty pence. Thirty
eight old money and I was left with sixty six p- for a week and that
was a pound. And I used to live on it EOS and I think now. I think
that’s now why it’s made me appreciate- the value of money. And erm if
I can jump a bit further I then left there and went to work for
another firm who did, you won’t have heard of these will you- You’ll
have heard of them won’t you? Oh yes, yeah, yeah. Well the **anon**
were the biggest circuit in England of cinemas. And some cinemas used
to change three times a week. Monday Tuesday Wednesday, Thursday
Friday Saturday and a different one on a Sunday- so people went. And
there was about- I think there was sixty of us worked there. And we
used to do abou- I- I forget the amount but it was in hundreds. The
circuit was in hundreds of cinemas. And we used to do them all by hand
every week. One week’s holiday. A forty eight hour week and that’s
where I really learnt me job there you know my trade. They went
bankrupt. And I got oth- other jobs you know and then I always wanted
to have me own business and I started my own business in nineteen
sixty six . I found this old property and I started in business on two
weeks holiday pay that I’d got from the firm. Fifteen- thirty pound it
was for two weeks. Out of that I had to pay sixteen pound to rent the
shop. It was a big gamble wasn’t it. But I was lucky that I got the c-
custom you know. Struggled and erm- but people were good in those days
c- anyway I- I managed to get- make friends with a chappy who worked
for I think it was Esso petroleum. And he- he was responsible for ad-
advertising and he used to bring me the advertising to do you know big
wooden signs. And so I hadn’t erm money to buy the wood even to do
them on. But there was a wonderful sh- shop in **anon** where th- you
know they used to sell wood. And he said to me ‘Edmund **anon** you
take it. When you get paid you pay me’ and I thought that was lovely
that. You know. And I worked on my own for t- twenty five years and
enjoyed it. Erm and I lookayback on life it’s- it’s had its bad times
I’ve EOS First time okay, you can’t have it perfect can you. And then
me wife- I went out with me wife once when I was about eighteen and
the problem was she was a friend of the fam- or their- her parents
were a friend of my parents and whenever she came round I went out you
know. So anyway we went out with each other once. We didn’t like each
other EOS We went off an married somebody else and fifteen years later
I got divorced. D- didn’t know where **anon** was. Hadn’t the
slightest where she was. Until a friend of mine who was an insurance
agent he said ‘I’ve just knocked at a house in Stretford and this
**anon**- **anon** came to the door.’ I said ‘did she?’ He said ‘yeah’
he said erm ‘she’s got divorced and she’s living in **anon** and she’s
a bit of alright yeah Edmund **anon**’ Left channel resumes EOS So
Edmund **anon** wrote to her mother EOS And that’s how that started
all over again. So you can see why I believe your life’s mapped out.
Cos how did I meet her again in **anon** when I was here? Yeah this is
it you know. And that- that was fantastic that. I’ve got a boy off me
first marriage and off the second I’ve got t- two girls EOS One’s okay
One’s very okay, one’s lovely. And the other one sh- she was even odd
with her mother you know. I haven’t heard off her for a year now. I
mean her mum died th- th- th- what three year ago now wouldn’t it be.
Yeah. And erm sh- she’s strange. Course there’s always strange ones
about. P- people say I’m strange. No left channel EOS Oh yeah, yeah.
Who do you work for? I might know them. Yeah. No I don’t remember
them. Yeah of course. Yeah yeah. Mm. They came back did they? Yeah.
Mm, mm, that’s right. That’s the most important thing in life isn’t it
trust. You know. If they trust you. I’ve got a lady who does my house
work and I come out many a day and she lets herself in and I’ve got a
lot of f- faith in and trust in her and it’s nice to have- cos that’s
important part of life is trust. Isn’t it? I you don’t mind if I
chatter? In ninetee- with having me own business- in nineteen seventy
four I was invited to join the Rotary Club **anon**. Have you heard of
Rotary? No. You’ll- you might’ve heard of Rotary. They used to come
round the streets at C- Christmas time with a Christmas float. Yours
in **anon**- and Lymm- Lymm- Lymm R- Rotary Club came round. And it-
it was- it was started in America originally. And it’s for business
men you know who’ve reached the top of the EOS Well I couldn’t go any
higher cos I worked myself. You see. So- I was invited to join you
know. And that was good. And that gave me a lot of confidence- because
they have to stand up and s- give a talk once a year. And I was still
very bad stammering. And erm when it was my t- turn the first time
they said ‘Edmund **anon** you don’t have to do it if you don’t want’.
I said I’m going to make them have it you know. But I did it okay
because they’re all on your side. That’s the best part of it. So I w-
I was in t- twenty one years in Rotary. I was ch- chairman of the
community section which looked after the area you know and I loved- I
like local charity work- and looking after the area where I know. And
whenever it was my turn to speak th- the president would announce it
the week before that next weeks speaker is Edmund Jacobs **anon**- and
we’re extending the lunch half an hour EOS But all that helped you.
And do you know what I ended up there doing? I was speaker’s EOS And
yeah. Now that was a good p- part of my life. An- and the wife was in-
i- in the ladies section. I was invited every year to be president but
because you had to visit other clubs I’ve turned it down. But my wife
acc- c- cepted the ladies side of it. so I used to go out for free
meals with her then. So tha- that was it. Yeah but in those days
Rotary was nearly consisted of- doctors, surgeons, solicitors. All
local people. All the shops in Urmston were owned b- by the actual
owner. They were privately owned. And they were all members of the
Rotary Club. But there’s none left EOS You’ve got the dentist. You’ve
got them all sorts of- all walks of life as a member. And erm but it’s
gone now. You can’t walk into any shop without its being a big c-
concern. I mean there’s not a- a lot of these shops like **anon** left
EOS where you can s- s- see the owner. They’ve gone. That’s the
personal touch that’s gone. Because I was- a lady I rented me shop off
she said to me cos her’s was a- next door she says ‘let me give you a
bit of advice. Get a good EOS and never lose the personal touch’. And
you’re always there to- Well it is yeah. It’s sad that isn’t it you
know. And like I said earlier on the buses were always on time. I mean
I had to be at work for eight o’clock . Excuse me. And if I missed the
twenty five past seven there was one at half past. And if I missed the
half past there was one at twenty five to. And the twenty five to just
got me there. You know. But there wasn’t as m- many p- people on the
roads then- so the b- buses weren’t held up. Erm have you got anything
else for a- a minute? What do the local people like? Well I’ve noticed
that now. Now I’m you know on- on my own. Everybody knows me. I know
them. And erm- and a- a lady opposite with her husband you know. And
when I go out at all in the evening which is not- I don’t like to go
out now. It’s not safe for- older people to go out and that’s one of
the sad things of life which I’ll go back to in a minute that. It’s
reminded me of something. Erm I’ve got to let this lady know I’m going
out and w- when I’ll be back. Which is good. It’s to keep an eye on me
cos she knows if- if I don’t get up in the morning something’s
happened don’t they. You know what they used to like Fearne **anon**?
Christmas time. Go into Manchester looking at **anon** arcade. When it
was Christmas it- **anon** had long windows down the side of an EOS
The other side of the arcade was **anon** and erm every window was
decorated at Christmas with animation and animals and moving and there
was a real spirit of Christmas. And people used to go down especially
just to look in the windows when it was closed. Now I came to Urmston
on Sunday and I drove th- th- through Urmston- excuse me and nearly
every window was shuttered. Metal shutters. Well in my youth you could
walk and look in all the EOS Enjoy yourself. Nowhere was open EOS but
today it’s all ‘keep out’ shutters- you know. We don’t want you and
all like that and- And I saw s- something the other day that disgusted
me really. House for sale sign and they’ve got to s- s- set them
alight these days. Well what do they get out of it? W- w- what do you
get out of damaging anything? Oh yeah, yeah. The person yeah. Yeah.
You can’t- I can’t understand- Did you want to ask us any questions?
Are w- are w- are we running out of time? Can I just say? Erm my wife
and I we- a lot of people don’t like EOS I had one and I used to hold
people up on the road. You know. we did about th- th- thirty years you
know. But when I- I- I retired my s- we’ll go up into a motorhome
which was as fast as a car could go. And I’ve been all over England,
Scotland and Wales and our hobby when I r- retired was adopting the
old guide dogs. Oh I loved doing that and I’ve got five dogs’ ashes in
the back EOS And I’m an emotional person and the first dog we adopted
w- was- the owner was blind and deaf. Yeah blind and deaf. So he had
to be with a g- guide dog but he couldn’t hear as well. So that was
difficult. So the pers- so w- got her you know y- y- you’re
interviewed at home to see if you’re suitable. And w- when you get the
dog they come back in a fortnight to make sure that you’re- the dogs
are settled. And we- oh we went to this dog called Honey. And the day
before we got a phone call from the guide dogs. He says ‘I hope you
don’t mind he wants to meet you’. I said ‘no I don’t mind’ you know.
And erm- so we went down and we met him. M- m- my wife sat beside him
and questions were asked and if it meant just a yes or a- a no answer-
my wife had to either t- t- t- tap his hand for yes. I forget which
way round or- rub it for no you know. And anyway the- he had a- like
a- a machine tha- a braille machine. And the guide dog people used to
t- t- type the message in and he picked it up. So that- but he must’ve
gone deaf later in life cos he could still EOS So he could talk to us,
anyhow, after half an hour he’d- he’d handed over the- the- the lead
to my wife. He’d handed over the dog’s tablets. He had his other dog
there- but he was handing over his eyes and his ears. And after half
an hour they said to me ‘Mr Jacobs **anon** will you t- t- take the
dog’s lead and go’. Well I got outside there and I thought I’ve taken
his eyes and ears away and I cried my eyes out. and they had to take
me for a cup of tea you know. It’s- it’s a traumatic situation- Oh no
no. Oh yeah. Yeah. Mm somebody owned it yeah. Yeah oh I know. Yeah mm.
Yeah of course he’s not hurting anyone. Well, when- when we had
ordinary dogs you know pet dogs before we started to adopt- Oh that’s
right. We got to the end of the- I- with the guide dogs. I was saying
I don’t think I can have another because of walking them. So the vet
came out with the dogs. He says ‘this dogs are l- these dogs are
lovely to walk’. T- twenty minutes a day and they spent the rest of
the time by the fire. And that was a greyhound. So erm anyway I- I
never got round to it because me doggy died and then me wife died. And
on your own you can’t look after a dog. But just going back to life.
Fearne **anon** and myself go to church. Now whether that’s made us
any better people I don’t know. I enjoyed ch- church. Really enjoyed
it. Been all me life cos I was first introduced when I was five. With
going to a church school. And then a church school. And then I was in
the best youth club of all which was a church and then I moved away
from the church w- when I got married first time. Never went back. And
I’ve been a very active member involved in doing everything. And
enjoyed it. Now I won’t mention any names or where I’m going but this
vicar doesn’t get the best out of me. Yeah, and it’s sad that. And he
knows it. He’s a nice chap. Great with my wife when she was EOS I
mean, he said to us m- me daughter ‘any time night or day you want me
call me’. Well me wife died at home. Five o clock in the mor- morning.
I was lucky that night that I had erm a nurse f- from **anon** who was
EOS Cos I wouldn’t have known what to do on me own properly. So I rang
me daughter up. She came and she said ‘I’m going to ring EOS And he
was w- with us within half an hour. So he- he- he was good on that
side. When you really needed him he was there and I think being a
church m- member has helped me a lot in life. I- I’m very honest. I’m
very sincere. I talk a lot. I’ve got hundreds of stories that I can’t-
But is it- an- nearly up yet?Well I went to school in **anon** which is called **anon** school. You
know I’ve been there for a long time. A very long- I couldn’t remember
how many years but I lived there for a long time with me EOS Erm we
moved away from **anon**- and lived in **anon**. I used to live at the
**anon**. Been there a long EOS so I moved to up road now, which as
you know I live on my own, so it’s just that erm you know I get on
with- Yes I was. Yeah I was happy at school. Yeah, yeah. It’s just
that when I went there, **anon** in- in **anon** EOS I had to wear you
know like- go to a- like a clinic thing. I had to wear this cardboard
hat over me head cos the sun, for a reason, cos of me eyes, so EOS
That’s why I had me eyes tested. Some- I mean they sent you a reminder
that your eyes are due to be tested, you know. But they always seem to
be okay The- these are me reading glasses and the ones I’ve got at
home, they’re for the television. But as I say school sports, but I
never done that at all. Well I’ve done sports but not done- I don’t
think I’ve done music and drama cos I was fostered out when I was-
when I was a child. yeah, yeah when me and my sister were very- w- we
were forstered out cos me mother was tookayvery ill, very poorly- and,
I did enjoy sch- we did enjoy school EOS you know. But erm when we
came out of fostering I can’t remember what happened then. It’s- It
was a long- a very long time ago EOS and your favourite teacher, well
I just can’t remember about- favourite teacher at all about that. But
when I remember from your first day at school we just enjoy- you get
to know EOS young people you know in- in the school yard like. And I
do remember but erm that one in **anon** I don’t- I don’t know if it’s
still there or not cos I’ve not been down to **anon** for ages. I
think we did. I think- I think we did. I think we did. I think we did.
Now what- were- were your summers holidays like when you were young?
Well, when I was young I had no holidays been put back- erm I don’t
think I went to go away much. When I got a bit older. I have been to
Scotland. You know I’ve been to Scotland- Err I went out with somebody
like ages- I’m going back ages ago but EOS erm no as I said to you
before I’m on- I’m on me own now. So I just keep on going you know. I
like my walks and everything you EOS You know I like coming here for
my lunch EOS I mean the staff are very good to you. Yes I was very
happy at school. Yeah, yeah. Well you- you had to go- you had to go
didn’t you to learn. You know and erm I did have a brother. Erm mind
you he’s not long with me. He passed- He passed away. I’ve got another
brother- he lives in Oldham and he do- he do- he rings me once a
fortnight or I- I- or I ring him EOS and erm I had another brother but
we don’t get on at all. and erm what extra you are. Schoo- sports,
music- we’ve said that haven’t we. I like sports you know I like
sports. No problem at all with sports. You know you do the sack race
and egg-spoon race and all this kind of thing you know. No I didn’t.
No I didn’t. Well I left school- I think I left school when I was six-
I think I was sixteen when I left s- when I left school, I- Oh five
shillings oh. Well there’s one here one at the top. W- where are your
parents from? Now that’s an question because erm I got an old
photograph at EOS Very old photograph. Erm when me mother was alive-
she lived w- we moved away from **anon** up to- moved up to **anon**.
She was alive then- but I didn’t knew me father at all. No. So- so I
don’t know about that one but erm I mean me uncles and all that me
aunties are you know passed away. So it’s- So- so it just that, erm,
w- Erm sh- sh- she could- she could be. I mean you know. We don’t
really know. You know you’re so young you sometimes you EOS Yeah,
yeah, yeah EOS No, no erm EOS it’s just that I’m looking at this other
one here, the local evening news stories about thi- important people
know about your- your town. Well as I said before in **anon** I meant
to t- I meant to tell you this but I got two sisters which I never
seen. very long- for a very long time. I’ve got their address and I
gave it to me brother to- you know to get in touch you know with us
but I don’t know if he’s done it yet. I don’t know. Sometimes- I
usually go down to see him but he meets me so, cos it’s a long way. c-
cos he’s moved into a bungalow now you see. He’s not- he’s never been
married you know, he’s- No. I’m not that bothered about my age. I’ll
be- I was born in nineteen forty one so I’ll be- born in the war yeah.
So I’ve got an old big photograph you know erm at home somewhere but
EOS I remember I used to have this old three wheeled bike. Very old
three EOS A very old one you know. In **anon**, very old. And the
people w- w- when we put our house up for sale EOS and a nice couple
b- bought it. You know nice coloured people bought it you know EOS So
that’s when we moved for my mother’s health you know. So she couldn’t
travel. She couldn’t go out at all much. Yeah, yeah so- No. No we
haven’t. There’s- that big one in Sale- that’s just standing there. I
know- I used to go there one time. But it’s just standing there doing
nothing you know. Sh- sh- it’s a shame really you know. those- those
days, yeah EOS Yeah that’s right they’d shelters didn’t they. Yeah.
I’m not quite sure if I have heard of it. Mm it was yeah. I mean I was
only v- I must’ve been very young- to you know. It’s erm- Did you move
house at all when you were young? What memories do you have of this?
If I could remember it’s- No you ca- no you carry on you carry on!
Well when I left school- when I left school I would I did erm I work
in **anon**- in a factory but erm I was a- I was a cleaner there.
Cleaner. You know full time cleaner. I’ve not just do- I’ve always
done cleaning. Erm well it’s called **anon**- **anon**. It’s not-
they’re not there an- But the building’s still there. Erm the- it-
quite a few got made redundant. I couldn’t tell you how many years
that was. But I was made redundant. And then I worked in the erm- in
the canteen you know. I’ve done EOS I’ve done looking after children-
And erm as you know I look after dogs and all this kind of thing. You
know erm hal- in the fact the people I’ve just c- come back from EOS
Erm it was me last night last night cos they came- back yesterday
afternoon about half past two. Yeah. They were very pleased everything
was okay you know. Cos they know. I’ve been with them what it must be
about twenty one years I’ve been with them you know cos they know they
can trust me EOS you know. They know the two cats are being getting
looked after. Trust t- trust you know. No you carry on EOS He is isn’t
he carry on. I might’ve heard of it. Long time ago . Yeah they used to
do it- they used- Mm. Yeah. Yeah. Well I’m on this- what do local
people like? Well where I- where I live in **anon** I’ve got- I’ve got
good EOS You know. Erm I mean at the back there’s no houses it’s just
fields EOS I do have good erm some people- Yeah very ni- Oh **anon**
aye. Keep it. Yeah. Keep out, yeah EOS No, yeah, yeah. This is it- Mm.
It’s the same you know a car’s been stolen. They burn it don’t EOS
Many times in **anon**- they’re forced to put these new railings up at
that big school. Many time- I- and we used to go in there and we used
to look after the dogs. And they used to take the dogs in there. I
kept them on the lead cos they weren’t my dogs. And erm I used to take
you know a doggy bag with me. Anyway you always see- every now and
again you see cars been burned. And I f- I feel sorry for the person.
You know. Find out one morning the car’s not there. I- I can’t
understand why they can’t- why they do this kind of thing. My g- my-
Oh yeah I . Yeah. I’ve- I’ve done a lot of erm- I do a lot of charity
work for- for animals you know. And I- you know you had coppers I’d
save them in a carrier bag. Sainsbury’s carrier bag and I take them
down to erm Sale. the, you know, for sick animals. That’s what I did
because I love animals you know. I don’t like to see people to be
cruel you know. Well I seen a greyhound near- in Partington- I don’t
know who it belongs to but it had a- like a- one of these white
collars you know. I don’t know if it had escaped from a greyhound
thing or what. Or- it came up to me friendly. I was watching these-
these lads you know. They’re always drinking frigging beer. Wha- you
know. I didn- I saw this- this chap ‘go away, go a- away’. And I
thought leave him alone. Poor thing’s not doing any harm. And I took
some biscuits out with me last night. and he wasn’t there. No so I
don’t know who- who owns it. But it’s a- it’s a shame you EOS Well it
does with me because I mean I do believe. You know. I’m- I am a
Christian and I do believe. And I do a lot for **anon** church in
**anon**. And I help out with the Sunday School as well you see- with
the children. The lady what’s been doing it for a- a- well her EOS
She’d been doing it for a long time. She does all the work you know
EOS And I just go in with her to help her you know. that’s what I’m
going to do as well. I l- I like to listen to you you know. I like to
listen to youRight when you’re ready. Did you Edmund **anon**? oh, that’s nice EOS
Yeah, that’s nice EOS It’d be there EOS Not the old one. I know the
new one. **anon** talks about- cos it used to be the **anon** EOS We
had one outside our house. In our old house. It had like pebbles over
it so it looked like it was just part of the EOS I never- we couldn’t
get into it cos it was all blocked off inside. But at least I found .
You came prepared . And both divorced and things. . It’s what he’s
good at EOS Yeah you’re right. That’s the thing with the chain stores
isn’t it. They don’t have the personal touches and- bet you chat to
them all EOS So she can keep an eye on you. Erm you’ve got t- ten
minutes. God that must be difficult. Oh okay Yeah.no, no, you’re right EOS my name is Harriet Rickman **anon** EOS and I
am absolutely fantastic EOS right, so what I was saying before is,
years ago, when kids where in the street if they were cheeky or
anything like that EOS you give them a clip round the ear EOS and if
they went running in saying to their Mum, ‘Mum, Mum, Mrs such- and-
such-a-body’, or, ‘Aunty Doree’s just hit me’ her answer would be,
‘well, you must’ve deserved it’ EOS and it was right, whereas now, a
kid in the street, the other week it was, erm, he stood right in front
of me and he wouldn’t let me pass EOS so, I got his arms like that and
I moved him to one side EOS it- yeah, on- on **anon** EOS and he goes,
‘you’re not allowed to touch me, I’m going to get the police’, so
that’s what you get now EOS whereas years ago, cos you knew you was
gonna get a clip round the EOS you didn’t do it EOS it- it’s a
different story, and like I say, you were always in your EOS all- a
lot of the doors were open, kids were playing, I remember EOS you
know, the door was open, he was in and out, and all the kids were in
the street EOS you never sorta moved out your area EOS whereas now,
they do move out the area, they do wander all over the place, and
they’re in gangs EOS yeah, so you’d move out your area and a lotta p-
like you say, a lotta people are moving so the community is gone EOS
people don’t know everybody like they used to EOS do you know EOS the-
the know them there, them there, you know, and now, that’s gone, some
people don’t even see their neighbours, do you know EOS t- sp- no, no,
th- that’s another thing, a lotta kids now, at one s- that’s- I mean
**anon** said to me the other day, ‘put the baby at the door’, he
says, ‘I took him for a- took him for EOS ‘and I parked him outside
the door’, he says, ‘now how often do you see a child parked outside
the door getting some fresh-’ you never, but at one time babies were-
you had a baby and, ‘ooh, look, they’ve had a new baby’ cos it’d be
outside the front door EOS in a morning, washed, fed, time for a nap,
in the pram and outside in the air, you never see that now EOS they
never put a baby at the front door, cos you’re too scared someone’s
gonna come along EOS and snatch it EOS that’s it, but that’s another
thing you see, I’d say ninety percent of the mothers work now EOS
whereas they didn’t then EOS nobody worked then so, mothers were at
home all day EOS they could socialise with the neighbours, and get to
know the neighbours, whereas now, you’re up in the morning, children
at babyminders, out at work, pick the kids up after work, back home,
doing the tea, you’re too knackered to do anything else, to go
socialising, most of the time it’s- it’s EOS weekends, and then it’s
people you already know EOS so you don’t get- y- you lose- you losing
a lot of the community, not EOS well, like I say, women having to go
out to work EOS because they can’t afford to survive on the one wage
EOS but that’s as well, because we’ve got very materialistic, cos at
one EOS if you didn’t have a telly, you didn’t have a telly EOS it
didn’t matter EOS but now everybody wants, ‘ooh, the Joneses have got
this, so’ EOS ‘we want one’ EOS so, to get these things you’ve and-
and in getting them things I think you’re sacrificing the community
part of it EOS you know, there’s that little network is dwindling, but
everyone’s becoming more materialistic, they’ve got the video, they’ve
got the computer, the children have got all the best trainers, and
this, that and the other EOS you’re g- you’re gaining material things-
but you’re losing some of the values in the home, and the social EOS
think, on that side EOS wanted to get married, but- turn around, yeah
EOS I know, it’s funny because did you see it on the telly, that they
said, although women have got more rights, erm, more independence than
this, that and the other they are less happy, th- erm, ninety percent
of them are less happy than they were fifty years ago EOS you know,
th- they- really not content at all EOS they said and I- I- I think it
was Loose Women I was watching and th- they were saying EOS I love
them, and they were saying it’s because, this professor says it’s
because, women have too high expectations of love EOS and romance and
what they expect EOS and one of them said, it’s not that they have too
high a expectations, it’s that they won’t settle for anything less EOS
whereas at one time, if you got married, you stayed because of the EOS
and you put up with abuse, and you put up with drinking, and you put
up with all sorts, because EOS that was the norm, it was a big shame
at one time to get divorced, the- the- you know, separate EOS on,
yeah, yeah EOS yeah, I- I couldn’t imagine EOS having to stay in a
relationship that I wasn’t happy in, no way EOS I just couldn’t, I d-
I- I wonder how these women coped EOS it’s too easy for us, yeah, too
easy for us to change, I suppose there’s certain things in that that
you could say, yeah EOS but there’s the extremes where you get EOS
really horrible men that EOS are abusive and stuff EOS women died
because they couldn’t leave they’d, you know, g- get beat up and
summet could happen whereas, mind you, even now today you will see
that a battered wife ninety percent of them stay with the husband EOS
they don’t always report it, they cover it up, they, you know EOS
because they say it’s a syndrome don’t they, once you get in that
situation, it’s very, very hard EOS to get out EOS yeah, it’s not got
the spark- what- what you perceive as love and the excitement and the
butterflies in your stomach EOS I don’t care who gets that EOS after
twelve month that goes doesn’t it EOS and it does end up the norm, you
know, just EOS like a routine, ‘morning, love, right, off to work, see
you later, what do you want for tea’ EOS I’d- I- I know what you mean,
and I agree with you, that’s nice, but EOS a problem can start,
because when you’re both going out to work, you’re both meeting new
people, and then someone pays you attention, and there’s a bit of
excitement there, that’s when EOS that hum drum life all of a sudden
becomes, ‘I don’t know if I can put up with that’, you know, do you
know what I mean because EOS there’s a bit of excitement over there
and I think, even in a- a marriage where it’s hum-drum like that EOS
you still need a bit of excitement in some way or another EOS to keep
it going EOS but at the end of the day it’s still how can you always
fit it in, because, when you’re both working y- you know what I mean,
when you buy- I think if you get married and you buy a property EOS
ninety percent of your time goes towards your home, working for EOS
and that is sometimes, is that- like I say, we’re getting too
materialistic in a lot of things EOS so, instead of, like you say,
keeping the excitement and everything in your marriage EOS things tend
to go materialistic, ‘oh, we want this for the home and ooh, have you
seen that over, ooh yeah, we’ll get one of them big massive screen
tellys and’ EOS and so all your time is getting the money together for
all these EOS and then that that takes away from your personal EOS
it’s about a collection of things round you EOS payments left on me
car, oh my God, I suppose EOS ah yeah that is something that has-
that’s changed EOS I don’t think they lost out, I don’t think they
wanted to be bothered, to be truthful with you EOS cause it was- I
still remember Granddad **anon**, he used to go to work, come home and
sit in the corner with his paper and he didn’t like a lot of mither
off EOS kids, do you know, it was- that was his routine EOS and it’s
like whatsits Dad, his a- his attitude was, ‘I go out to work it’s my
house I pay the bills and I’ll watch what I want on telly’ I mean,
I’ve seen him come in switch- she’s been EOS telly goes over she goes
to- no, I’m not joking, like, that is the God’s honest truth EOS he’d
been out in the pub, he’s come in EOS she’s in the middle of a film,
he just turned it- I was sat with her and I c- turned it over, and she
went, ‘I was watching that’, ‘I pay the bills in this house, I’m the
one that goes out to work, I’ll watch what I want’ I was EOS there was
steam coming out me ears EOS I come, ‘I’ve got to go now’ EOS and I
just walked out and I’m like this EOS it was- it was horrendous EOS
and it was so funny cos they came to our house and erm, **anon**
asked, ‘erm, do you want a brew’ this that, ‘erm, yeah, yeah, go on,
I’ll have a can, yeah, yeah, yeah’ and he goes erm, ‘ooh erm, such-
and- such-a-body’s on’ and he turned the telly over, and he goes,
‘ooh, it’s good this, it’s good match this’ and I just got the remote,
I come ‘I pay the bills in here, we don’t watch sport in this EOS and
he walked, I thought there’s no way you can do that in your home,
you’re not doing it in mine EOS do you know what I mean, and they went
they left- argument, but that’s what I’m saying, that was the way then
EOS the women stayed at home, they cleaned the house, they looked
after the children, the men went to work, had a pint, come home, tea
on the EOS and they didn’t want no mither EOS do you know, mm, and
that was the routine EOS and it was more the women that had the social
circle like I say, all EOS and everything, the men it was, down the
pub EOS Auntys, no, no, but it was always EOS Aunty **anon**, cos you
didn’t go, Mrs **anon** or Mrs **anon** EOS it was Aunty **anon**,
Aunty **anon**, Aunty **anon**, you know EOS they were all Aunties EOS
and like I say EOS you did summet wrong, they didn’t go running
telling your Mum, you got a clip round the ear EOS and if you went and
told your Mum, you’d get another one EOS yeah, and it was ‘well, you
must’ve deserved it’ EOS cause I can still remember that EOS cause
they don’t- they’re not gonna crack you for nothing EOS and it wasn’t
a whack, it was just, like you say, a clip round the ear, ‘eh, you
little bugger, what do you think you’re doing’ EOS but you can’t-
told, yeah now you can’t e- there’s no way you can do any of that, and
I tell you what an- irritates me with the grandkids, the eldest in
particular these mobile phones, you can’t have a decent conversation
with them because it’s, ‘erm, yeah oh alri- alright Nanna, erm, what
was that, what, erm, oh alright, yeah, yeah’ EOS and they’re like this
EOS so that you know they’re not listening to you EOS they’re too busy
on- on- on- on the phone- on the phone texting EOS and when they- when
they’ve text me, right, have you ever got one of these texts, and I’m
going, ‘what the what’ and I put two pairs of glasses on and I still
don’t understand it and it’s all text EOS all text writing, and I
wonder, you know like y- y- everything evolves, you know like erm,
years and years and years ago they used to speak all drawn out and
everything EOS and like you say, we’ve shortened it, do you think
we’ll end up writing like they text now in years to come EOS do you
know another- another change EOS yeah because I’ve- I said to someone,
no so long ago, I says EOS the way they used to talk, ‘thou shalt do’
you know EOS years ago, the ways they used to write and do that EOS I
says, and then it all got changed to more a less speaking- writing how
you speak, and now, is it gonna be, you’re writing how you text EOS do
you know, and so that could be another EOS is it? I thought it was
‘lots of love’ EOS ooh but that’s it, I j- I thought L-O-L was ‘lots
of love’ because a lot of people do that at the end of a text, ‘right,
going now, bye, L-O-L’, so I thought it was ‘lots of love’, erm, and
I- if- I’ve started doing little bits like, if I’m texting **anon**,
erm, ‘are you on your way’ and I’ll put, just an ‘R’, then a ‘U’ EOS
do you know like, that- little things like that, but I don’t know all
the others that EOS but that’s what I’m saying EOS yeah, yeah, but
that’s what I’m saying, I think this EOS is gonna change the whole
thing again EOS because it’s all computers, it’s all erm, mobile
phones and texting EOS so I do think in the next ten years, it’s all
gonna change again and, people are gonna be writing like- it’s like a
shorthand isn’t it, instead of- cos I know our **anon** says, ‘it
takes you bleeding ages to text me back’ EOS because I do the whole
thing, you know EOS ‘and’ and ‘the’ and everything is wrote, you know,
properly, and she’s there going, ‘for God’s sake’, I says, ‘yeah, but
I’m not used to texting’, I’m not used to typing, so it takes me ten
minutes EOS to find the letter and the key that I want EOS do you know
what I mean, I’m getting a bit quicker now but at first I’d g- I’d get
bored before I got to the end of what I was trying to EOS do you know
EOS do you know- that’s how you pick a fella up EOS honest to God I- I
wouldn’t know how to do that, in fact, a few times erm, I’ve- when I
was going to excuse me, ‘Sign’ **anon** EOS a few of them said, ‘ooh,
we go on these chat-room things and EOS ‘and we have a right laugh,
and I met a few people’, I says, ‘oh right’, well the first thing, I
we- I went into hysterics, cos I says, ‘ooh, what is it, I’ll have a
go at that’ she goes, ‘ooh, it’s called plenty of fish’, well EOS I
set off laughing, I says ‘it’s called what?’, she says, ‘plenty of EOS
she says, ‘the only trouble is’ she says, ‘you have to be careful cos
some of them are only after one thing’ I says, ‘well do you think that
could be because of the name of the site?’ EOS you know, ‘plenty of
fish’, she says, ‘I never thought of that’, well I was- I nearly
choked laughing EOS right, but each time I try to get onto these
things EOS I can’t do it EOS but I must do something because I keep
getting things saying EOS ‘we’ve found your perfect match’ or
‘somebody wants to get in touch with you but when I try to go back on
it, you know, I’ll press it on me emails to go EOS and I still get
lost and I don’t know what I’m doing and I think, ‘oh, sack it’ and
it’s frustrating EOS you know, so I don’t bother, I just play
solitaire on the computer EOS and I’ll sit- is that- did you send me
something about that? oh, go on EOS is that what they said? oh no, no,
no, no EOS I need a four p- I- I need a four-poster at least EOS oh
God, that- I’d a died if that- I’d a been, ‘ooh, ooh, ooh’ EOS
**anon** come and sort this out for me EOS I probably would’ve done
yeah EOS I’d’ve probably got barred off the internet for using bad
language EOS site, I know, ah no oh I’ve never come across anything-
I’ve never been- I never get into anything- I never get far enough
into it to even have a conversation with normal people never mind EOS
find a site like that, so I’ve ne- l- like I say I’ve tried a few
times, and never got on properly at anytime EOS anytime at all so I
just- I just sack it now, in fact, I went on me emails the other day
and there was about- I had fifty nine messages, and I bet twenty of
them was from them saying they’ve found a perfect partner EOS off
different things that I’ve tried to get on EOS but, they’ve got me
name and email address so they just send me all these things and I s-
I think EOS it’s no use having him there, I’m here, I don’t know how
to get to EOS so I just leave it, just sack it EOS erm, no way but
it’s erm, it is it is crazy, and I say to **anon**, ‘why don’t you get
on?’, cos I want her to keep up with her email and keep in touch with
her friends EOS and she goes, ‘I’m on a bleeding computer all day, I’m
not getting on it again’ and she won’t EOS sh- you know, it- in fact
she lost her email address because it had been that long EOS since
she’s been on it, and the- after a while, I didn’t realise, our
**anon** says, ‘oh yeah, if you’ve not used your email address for a
long time they squash it and you have to start up again’ EOS she says,
cos it happened to her so I said, ‘oh right’, so erm, w- she had to
set up a- well I did it for her, I sound dead clever now EOS I did it
for her, I sorted it out, and got her back on but erm, she still
doesn’t go on it much, and I mean it would benefit her EOS with her
being deaf EOS I mean she only texts anyway when she uses her phone,
what a performance I’ve had with that she went to erm, Salford to get
a new phone and I could see people looking at us, and some of them
tittering, she says, ‘but I need a phone’ she says, ‘that has got a
good vibrator on it’ EOS and we’re in the middle on this shop and I’m
thinking, ‘oh God’, she says, ‘because the last phone I got’ she says,
‘the vibration was no good, I couldn’t feel it’ she says, erm, ‘and I
was missing all me EOS so I’m there saying, ‘look, she’s deaf, she
needs a phone with a decent vibration on it so that when it’s in her
back pocket she can EOS I says, ‘the other phone that she got she
ended up swapping because it was no good to her, she was missing
everything’ ‘right, okay’, and she wanted one with a good camera on
it, and we were going EOS I know well that’s- that’s- that’s one thing
that they are lacking in EOS because, she has- sh- when we go, we
don’t go for a new phone and we’re in and out in a- in an hour EOS we
can be in there two or three hours EOS because she’s there and they’re
putting- they ringing all these phones and she’s holding them trying
to say EOS ‘no, that’s no good, that’s no good’, you know, and I
think- and I don’t- the worst thing is, she takes me with her, and I
don’t know the EOS about phones so I’m neither use nor ornament EOS so
she gets this phone home it was spent more time at home than it did
with her because the battery was going flat all the time, she was
charging it up every other day and what else, there was a f- there was
about three things wrong with it so we checked the agreement and it
says you can change it- you can cancel it within seven days, so she
said, ‘right’, so she types this letter out at work stops off at
Salford, she says, ‘right, I don’t want this anymore’ ‘cancelling me
contract’ they said, ‘you can’t do this- that’ she says, ‘yeah, oh yes
I can’, ‘oh, you’ve got to do it in writing’, she goes, ‘there it is,
copy for you, copy for me’, ‘no you’ve got to send it to ‘ead o- head
office’ and all this that and the other so she had a big row with them
she- she left the phone on the desk, they says, ‘no, no, you can’t
leave it here’, she says, ‘yes, I can I’m leaving it, I’m cancelling
everything’, and she went out the shop shouting, ‘you’re all mad if
you get a phone from here’ EOS I know, she’s dead erm, she’s dead
bolshy isn’t she EOS I thought, I’m glad I wasn’t with her, but
anyway, they’ve sent her a letter back saying, yes, she can cancel the
contract, but she’s got to pick the phone up, and she’s gotta ring
them and then they’ve got to arrange to pick it up and all this that
and the other, I thought EOS why not just give it back to the shop EOS
and leave it at that, so that’s what- she went in the shop and got it
from the shop, so why not just take it back to the shop EOS so, but
that’s what she’s got to do, so that’s what I’ll have to do later on,
erm, she’s got one now EOS well, I- don’t ask me, it’s- it’s got all
little things on it that she likes, it’s a touch phone, an iphone it
is EOS yeah, she’s got an iphone, so she’s quite happy with that EOS
erm, and it’s- sh- it’s not the latest one, she says, ‘I don’t want
the latest one Mam, because, it’s only just come out and then they’ll
find out all the problems and this, that and the other EOS she says,
‘so I’ll wait a- a bit and then I might in two years I’ll update it
again’ EOS she says, ‘but I’m happy with this one now and it does this
and it does-’ oh, she spends hours messing about, but, in saying about
the- that’s got it in, so she gets her emails through that anyway EOS
so- cos she’s been saying to me, ‘ooh, I got a birthday card off
**anon** and erm, I’ve got, erm, one off-’ who er- can’t remember who
else, but she got birthday cards sent to her over the erm EOS erm,
internet on her facebook and that EOS so she was quite chuffed about
that so, she’s erm, yeah she’s- she makes me laugh though s- to text,
yeah EOS that’s it, th- th- they are good, if you’re into gadgets EOS
but I’m not into gadgets, I can’t- one- me eyes are bad, and, even my
phone I’ve got now EOS I’m like this, and I’m putting two pairs of
glasses on reading it, so to start messing about and trying to learn
EOS how to do this, that and the other on a phone, that- I’m gonna
struggle to see anyway EOS it doesn’t seem worth it to me, as long as
I can text and phone, that’s all I’m bothered about EOS I mean I can’t
even use the camera properly on this or- or the, erm, I c- I- it’s-
you can change the length of time EOS I still can’t do it I take a
picture, it’s funny, I take a picture like that, and I press the
button and I go like that to look at it, and then it’ll go ‘click’ EOS
but I’ve moved- it’s like a delayed thing on it EOS and I don’t know
how to get it off EOS so I can’t even take a proper picture when I
want to, it ends up something else cos I’ve moved the- probably, but I
never use that either I never- I never put them in to see- and actu-
read through it, yeah EOS under- I know EOS I g- I always go, ‘what
does that mean?’ , ‘what’s that word there, what does it mean?’ EOS oh
God, but that’s it, it takes me that long to read summet I’ve got fed
up with it EOS I know, I m- that is- that is true, it’s like me, I was
scared of the laptop, I was scared to death breaking it EOS yeah, and,
I think that came from when I was working and I was ill and I was in
the office this time and they said, ‘oh, just put these facts and
figures in’ I says, ‘oh I don’t know anything’, ‘oh, we’ll show you’,
‘I- I’m scared of losing the data’, ‘you can’t lose the data’, fine,
fair enough, and they showed me how to do this, and I was doing it for
weeks, and then I got cocky, starting- trying to play about with it
EOS and the next minute it all went off and I says, ‘ooh, there’s
summet- ooh’ I says, ‘you said I can’t lose this data didn’t you’,
‘yeah’, ‘oh, well, come and sort it out then, cos it’s all gone black’
and the next minute he goes, ‘I don’t believe it Harriet **anon**
you’ve lost EOS I says, ‘you told me I couldn’t do that’ I says, ‘so
it’s your fault, it’s not mine’ EOS yeah, it was, and the thing was I
was dead worried but, because he’d said, ‘oh no, you’re alright, it-
you can’t lose it’ EOS I got cocky and I thought, ‘ooh, well I can’t
do any damage’, so you start messing round- and he’d says to me EOS
‘just have a go, keep playing with it and learning, and you’ll become
more confident’, so I did EOS and then I lost everything EOS and he
said, ‘no, just keep to what you was doing before, just put the data
in’, ‘right’ but, that’s why when I got mine it was, you know,
viruses, all I heard about was virus- say I put a virus in it, I don’t
know how you- I could put a virus in it but and so it was touching the
odd key like that, ‘ooh what’s happened, what-’ and that’s all you got
out of me for the first month, ‘ooh, what’s happened, what’ve I done,
what’ve I done’ but you need to learn what the keys do and what they
don’t do EOS and that was my problem, our **anon** was saying to me
ages ago, he’s texting me, you know, when he- and he- he’s on facebook
and he’s- leaving me a message and- and the name pops up, and then you
type in there and I thought EOS ‘ooh right’, so I typed some- he says,
‘just type in at the bottom’ so I just typed in at the bottom and then
I thought, ‘right, now what do I do with it?’ and, I clicked on it and
it went off, and I did this, that and in the end I went a- the long
way round EOS to text him what I’d just wrote in that square cos I
couldn’t send it to him, I didn’t know how to send it EOS and then,
who was it **anon**, granddaughter, yeah, ‘you press that Nanna’
‘right, okay’, but I was coming out of that EOS getting his name up
and going the long way round because I didn’t know how to send EOS in
that, it- and, it- unless you know what all the keys do EOS yeah, the
best of it is I went to erm, the erm, oh what’s it EOS in Eccles and
they were doing computer courses for free EOS and if you went regular
and you passed through the course, they’d give you a computer, wh- you
know EOS and you could keep it for so long and then pay fifty pound
for it, something like that EOS I thought, ‘ooh, I’ll get a computer’
and, I was going there learning and I h- I had a file and me discs and
everything and I started to learn a bit EOS but then I think she was
off ill and I’d gone all the way to Eccles a couple of weeks, and
nobody had bothered ringing me and kept saying, ‘ooh, she’s not here
this week, she’s not come in’, ‘oh, she’s not’ and in the end I just
sacked it EOS otherwise- but thinking about it, I only found all that
information in the disc when was it, was it yesterday or the day
before when I was looking for something for **anon** EOS so I might
get that out and put it in and start EOS trying to learn a bit more
EOS but like I say, I’m sure it has the keyboard EOS it- on it EOS
what’s a floppy disc? like erm- like a CD? I thought they- I thought
EOS that’s what I’ve got EOS you know from my computer course, that’s
what it is EOS that’s what I’m saying, the technology nowadays is
changing that fast EOS people who are a bit slow, it’s very hard EOS
to catch up EOS do you know what I mean? I- probably, I’ll get dead
good, on the computer and the laptop, and then they’ll go and change
it to something else and I’ll have to start from scratch, and it’s I-
you give up in the end, I- I do EOS eh well, we’ll see EOS yeah, like
I say, I’m gonna keep trying and erm, so that floppy EOS what makes me
laugh, is why do they call it floppy cos it’s as stiff as a board EOS
why if- if- if I’ve got one of them would I be able to put it in my
computer, it is a computer, it’s not a- a laptop EOS right, cos I
might have a go at that EOS and erm, try and learn a bit more we even
went, me and our **anon**, he says erm, ‘oh, there’s a computer course
starting’ so being, he says, ‘right’ I says, ‘I’ll come with you’ he
asks me, I says ‘yeah, okay, I’ll come with you’, and it was in
**anon** EOS so I got us on, we went down we was- th- there was only
me and him there and the tutor and, we did this course, then the week
after, it was really bad storms, I think it was advised, if you didn’t
have to go out, don’t go out EOS so I says, ‘we’re not going **anon**,
I’m not going in this, it’s really too bad, and I don’t want you
driving up here’, ‘right, okay’, so the week after that, we went
again, ‘oh, they’ve cancelled it’, you know, ‘not enough people turned
up’ EOS I didn’t even do that, cos a lot of people now have- are
learning off EOS because the kids are doing it in school now EOS the
kids are showing the parents how to use a computer EOS well, you’ll
have to find that EOS cause that might do me EOS that might help me
EOS upload mean? Yeah, I’m like that EOS cause I- I d- I don’t know
how to- you can put things on a disc can’t you? you know, if you
wanted erm, say a song EOS and you put a disc in and you could b- you
can do that, or, any information you can put on a disc, I can’t do
things like that, I don’t know h- I’ve got the facility EOS but, I
don’t know how to do it EOS and that’s something I would like to do,
cos I’d like to be able to EOS and you know, even, you know, different
things EOS I’d love to be able to do that EOS but I don’t know how to
do that EOS what it is- yeah, but what it is, because it’s a computer,
and it’s a complicated piece of equipment, you look at it, and you go,
‘ooh, I don’t know how to do this’, ‘ooh, I can I-’ because you think
it’s gonna be EOS and then when someone shows you, you go, ‘oh, is
that it’ and EOS you’re dead surprised EOS it’s so simple EOS but,
because you’re looking at this equipment and you’re thinking, ‘it must
be complicated’ EOS like you say, you’re mind goes blank, it’s like a
mental block EOS and you don’t see the simple little things that come
up that say, ‘just press here’, or ‘just do thi-’ EOS y- it- you don’t
see it, it’s like a mental blindness cos y- you EOS you don’t see it
EOS click, click, click, to for that, yeah EOS yeah I’ll have to get
stuck in me and erm, try a bit harder, get to know everything properly
EOS right how are we doing? good, cos I’m bursting for a peeit’s a good job I checked that EOS oki doki, so can you just- just
talk for a couple of seconds normally just so I can EOS great what
about you? right, that’s fine I think EOS erm, take it away EOS oh my
God EOS I think that’s alright that, yep, I was just letting you
finish off, right one sec, get this going again, can you just talk for
me EOS oh hang onHarriet **anon** speaks for the rest of the family with EOS where was
this, in yours? you didn’t do it EOS or you chose who you did it to
EOS you see th- I think the thing is though aswell like I- the-
culturally, we’ve changed so much, like, in them days EOS forty, fifty
years ago, you stayed with- from- from where you was born you went to
school, you got married, and you moved into the EOS near your Mam EOS
and that’s- that’s what happened, whereas nowadays, you know, we- w-
we finished school, and, you know, I come from Salford, but I might
get a job, say, in Warrington, or Cheshire, or well, anywhere, because
we’re a lot more mobile, we’ve got cars, trains, and I- y- which you
didn’t have in them days EOS yeah, a- or acknowledge them EOS I’ve got
a lad near- I- you know, it’s very rare I mean I’ll- I’ll let onto
them neighbours there, but they never speak to anybody EOS erm, and-
but EOS what I’m thinking is, if you move away, so, say you move to
Warrington from- from Manchester when you’re bringing your own
children up, you don’t know your neighbours, so you wouldn’t allow
your children to play in the street would you EOS yeah, yeah, it’s
horrible that really isn’t it EOS cause that’s I mean- I think that’s
one- the one where you do get talking to people, is, because, you
know, y- you’ll be talking about, ‘ooh, is that you’re dog’, or ‘is
that- ohh, is- is that your little’n’ and that’s how you get
communities building up, so it- it- it’s hard now isn’t it, I mean if
you’re working full time, so the kids are being dropped off at a
childminder’s, when do you get time to mix EOS two cars on the drive,
yeah EOS in one way, yeah EOS I absolutely agree with you w- on that,
and I think from my perspective, you know, when m- me Mum left school,
her views on life, were, you know, get married to a lovely fella, have
children, build- build a home EOS you know, she- she went to, erm, to
college to do secretarial, erm, work as a stop gap, until what she
wanted was to get married, and have EOS when I was leaving school, the
last thing on earth I wanted to do was get married and have children,
to me that was a put down EOS my- from my perspective, it was, no, get
out in the workforce, you’re getting the best job you can, you’re
earning your own money, you know, your own wheels, independent EOS so
I mean, in- in that short space of time and- time and you’re only
talking, well me Mum was twenty-one when she had me and **anon** so
it’s only, pff, eighteen, twenty years EOS for a complete turn around
EOS but now I think women are realising EOS in- in, you know, in this
day in age, that we’ve lost out somewhere, you know, we’ve made a rod
for our own back, not only are we, you know, bringing up families,
running a household, you know, keeping a relationship together,
hopefully, if you do, but we’re also working EOS I can really believe
that EOS cause I think it was always the woman who was to blame, no
matter what went on EOS you know, socially, it was always the woman
who was to blame you know, she couldn’t keep her marriage together,
she couldn’t do this EOS she’s the one with the problem, whereas th- I
mean that must’ve been the shame that people had to carry if they
decided to leave a EOS do you know, I’ve thought about this, and I
honest- honestly think that because women didn’t have a choice in them
days, erm, and perhaps I’m- might be talking a hundred years ago when
divorce wasn’t on the cards, erm, but you know, I know people from
other cultures from- from cultures which are very similar, erm, Ni-
Nigerian culture, if they- they’re not happy in a marriage, they
haven’t got a choice, they have to stay at it, and I think if you
think about it, that makes you work harder at it, if you haven’t got a
choice, if you’re stuck with this bugger for the next seventy years,
you aint gotta choice, you’ll work at making the relationship work for
you because you don’t have a choice, and perhaps now we’re- we’re
just, perhaps we’re thinking, ‘oh no, forget that, farts in bed,
that’s it, gone, next one’ EOS and I- I think- I think that- that’s t-
very true, that is- that is very true, but- and I think that’s- the- a
battered wife syndrome is different from an unhappy marriage, or- or a
marriage that isn’t- or, a relationship that isn’t as fulfilling as
you would want it to EOS course it does EOS but in some ways I think
that’s really nice and that’s, you know, that’s one of the things I
miss about being in a long term relationship, perhaps the mundane-cy
of it, but, there’s somebody there who says, ‘do you want a brew
love’, or, the rot sets in EOS but, don’t you think nowadays, you
know, w- we’re a little bit more educated about, erm, relationships,
and about keeping relationships going, you know, as much as you know,
I would- I would stand up to any young girl and say, ‘you do not put
up with that in a relationship’, I would- I would stand up to them and
say, ‘if you want a relationship to stay together, you need to still
go out together, you still need to have a laugh together if y- you
know, and put them into your marriage, or else, you know, that’s the
way marriages go, don’t- don’t you think EOS don’t you think it’s more
a case of you know, ‘I can’t leave this set up because I’ve got- I’ve
still got payments left on me car’ EOS ‘or I’ve still-’ do you know
what- I know it sounds sad EOS and it really does sound sad, but, I-
I- I’ve gotta hand- hold me hand up, I’ve done that in the past, you
know, thinking, ‘oh I can’t- can’t leave him this week, you know, I’ve
still got payments left on me car’ and EOS but I think it’s not all
negative because I look at me stepson’s relationship and I think men
are much more hands on with regard to children these days- cause they
really lost out, men lost out didn’t they in the past EOS oh God no
EOS yeah, it was, ‘shh, don’t go in there, me Granddad’s in there’ EOS
switches the telly over? and he just- do you know, honestly EOS and
you probably caused a big bloody argument through that EOS yeah, I
remember when we was kids, we had loads of Auntys EOS who weren’t our
Auntys EOS got another one EOS there was nothing abusive in it EOS it
was just a case of, you know, ‘when your Mam’s not here, I’m your EOS
‘you do what you’re told’ EOS while- while they’re on EOS yeah,
fingers going EOS code code, yeah EOS we may well do, we may well do
EOS yeah and- well, I mean things evolve don’t they EOS well it is, it
is, I mean y- w- when y- you email people now, you shorten everything
EOS I mean I’ve learned a few of them, like, I mean, L-O-L is ‘laugh
out EOS ha, ha, ha, no, ‘mwah’ is a kiss M-W-A-H, mwah like EOS but
the best one that I’ve learnt that use quite a lot actually, is P-
M-L, in capitals, pissed meself laughing EOS no, well we’ll have to
learn because I mean- it- it’s so- so much quicker, when you’re- you
know, you’re emailing EOS well I was on- on the laptop, erm, last week
it was, erm and I’m typing away, and next thing I get ‘beep’, I
thought, ‘who is- who’s this?’ this bloke, erm, is- is talking to m-
talking to me, so I’m texting him back, no, talking to him back, then
next thing, you know, you get your camera comes up, so he get the web-
webcam come up, cos my name’s Son **anon** he thought he was talking
to a fella EOS this twenty year old bloke in erm, Portugal wi- with
the same last name as me EOS so I mean, we had a right conversation
cos he- he does the surfing, just West of Lagos, where I’ve been out
to a lo- loada times, so the next time I going over, I’m going to see
him for a drink, now that’s EOS that is the future EOS oh, I’ll show
you EOS I’m just naïve me, I ge- I got one called erm, **anon** so I
thought, ooh, I’ll, you know- **anon** it’s called- don’t think so EOS
but I mean, it said like, join this, I’m thinking, ‘yeah, go on then’
I’m thinking it’s like facebook you know, a social networking site, so
I goes on, next thing, ‘beep’, th- this fella, ‘oh hello Sonia
**anon**, I really like your photo, can I see your- your album’ well
I’m taking the piss, so I’ve put my photograph on erm, and I hate
being judged by me- me age, so instead of putting I was born in
**anon**, I put I was born in nineteen sixteen, so, my photo album’s
called, ‘look at me, I’m ninety three’ EOS so, so, that’s got this
fella, you know, ‘can I have a look at your album’, ‘what for?’,
‘please let me have a look at your album’, ‘oh, alright then’, so
it’s- next thing, I’ve got fifteen fellas, throughout the globe, one-
one was in China, one was in Italy, somewhere, one- and they’re all
talking, and typing furiously away, ‘what do you wanna look at me
photos for, don’t you know I’m ninety three’ but that w- that is a
completely dodgy site, and I’m telling you now I was talking t- I’m
just naïve me, so I’m talking to this fella, from erm, where was he
from? Stafford, so I’m saying, ‘ooh, w- what’s the weather like in
Stafford’, ‘oh, it’s alright, you know’, ‘what you up to today?’, ‘oh,
well I- I drive erm, a wagon for a living’, I went, ‘oh, do you, do
you get up- do you get up to Manchester often?’, ‘ooh yeah, I’m in
Trafford Park erm, all the time, next time I come up I’ll give you a
call’ I went, ‘ooh right, alright fine’ next thing, ‘erm, so what’s
your number?’, ‘erm, well I won’t give you me number now, erm’, ‘well
I’m coming up to Trafford Park next week’ EOS ‘erm, will you have sex’
‘with me in me cab’ EOS ‘I thought you were gonna ask me for a coffee
EOS come on Sonia **anon**, you’re ninety-three **anon** honestly EOS
yeah, honestly, I just went I’ll block that one off, so I- I’ve
decided to knock that one on the head cos EOS no, seriously, totally,
I mean- and, erm, you know, they want to know if you’ve got a webcam,
and will you do this for them, and will you do that for them EOS and
again, just go to the frigging place in Manchester where the girls get
paid for a living you know EOS th- there are places where you can go,
‘will you shag me in me cab in Trafford Park?’ I don’t think so EOS
I’ll need a- I’ll need a curry and a bottle of wine before EOS I’m
sure you could’ve thought of some very choice words EOS a big red
flashing thing you know EOS you can’t say that on this- on this site
EOS what, would you go for a coffee in Manchester? ooh I didn’t know
that EOS wouldn’t you think though, that, you know, compa- phone
companies w- would make phones specifically for deaf people EOS as a
communication device I mean EOS I can just see her doing that and all
EOS but I bet- did she pick it up from the shop? go and see my mate
down there, **anon** EOS has she? That’s a good’n? oooh, has she got
an iphone? me Mum wants one of them EOS but them- them iphones, I
mean, you know that phone, that flip phone, I bought me and me Mum one
and it must be five years ago EOS cause I think it was the Christmas
of- that I bought it her and she’s had it five years, well sh- she’s
since the contract’s run out, she’s got- put it on pay as you go but
she’s got this new mega deal something through Virgin or whatever for
her phone, so what she wants to do is unlock this phone that I got her
five years ago erm so that she can have it on this Virgin, but six
months ago she was moaning and moaning and moaning she wanted an
iphone, I’m saying, ‘Mam, you can’t even bleeding text, what do you
want an iphone for?’ she’s like, ‘well **anon** such-and-such-a-
body’s got one, and we were in a restaurant and I- and me and your
Dad, we were chatting away, and we said, erm, yeah, oh yes, we still
live in Salford, and I told her me address, and I’m not kidding you,
she turned her phone round, and there was our front door, on her
phone- on her phone- I- my front door was on her phone’ and I went,
‘yeah, well it’ll be an iphone, and they’ve got satellite navigation
and all that’, ‘well, I want one’ EOS I said, ‘but you still don’t
know how to text’ EOS I think they’ve gotta be something that you’re
gonna use isn’t it EOS did you get a disc with it? I- all- all I’m
saying is, I mean I’m- I’m no techy at all, but, whenever I’ve got
anything, like I’ve got a camera, or satnav or, you get a disc with
it, and then, when you’ve got the time, and, you know me, I never- I
never even look at a recipe I just think I can cook, throw it all in
together, but I- I’ll be thinking to meself, ‘ooh, I don’t know how to
use that video bit on me camera’ EOS but all I’ll do is either go on
the computer or go on the little pamphlet, and they’re dead easy to
use nowadays EOS it’s just having the patience to sit down EOS and-
and actually read through it EOS cause they are easy, you know,
everything’s like user friendly these days, they’re not like they used
to be, cos I- you know, manuals used to be unless you had a degree EOS
you couldn’t bloody read it, never mind understand what was on them
EOS but I think you get frightened of things, and I think you’re just-
you have like a- a mental blinker EOS and you think, ‘I’m just ne- I’m
not gonna be able to use that’ erm, because me Dad’s not got a mobile
phone, and me Mum’s been saying, ‘well, you know, when I get me
iphone, your Dad can have my- my old one’ erm, and I say, ‘well I’ll
be able to teach him how to use it’ cos I am good at showing people
what EOS you know, how to use thing- things, but you know, I think
sometimes you just get mental block where you think, ‘I’m never gonna
be able to do it’, so you’re preventing yourself from- from- from EOS
erm, in a way EOS right, pressing the wrong thing? there’s o- there’s
only one person who could’ve lost the data and it EOS course you do,
yeah EOS just press the return key EOS and that’s e- exactly right y-
you know, a- and everybody, everybody, ah kid, is exactly the same,
you know, when you first look at computer, unless you’ve been shown
what to do, how are you supposed to EOS you see, it’s- it’s amazing
though I mean how quickly things change, I mean I remember doing erm,
a computer course it’s not ten years ago, at night school, erm, cos
you know our- our **anon** did computers at- at college and that, and
I thought, ‘we’ve got a bloody big computer in there and you know,
when I’m on me day off it’s sat there doing nothing, I may as well
learn how to use it’ EOS so I went on a computer course and one of the
first things they showed me how to do, erm, was put something on a
floppy disc, we don’t use floppy discs anymore, who uses floppy discs
now EOS it’s a small disc EOS no, no, no, no, no, it’s not, what am I
talking about, it- they used to be like in a square EOS yeah, but
nobody uses them these days EOS they use them little I’ve got one,
dongle thingies, it’s not a EOS you put it in the side of the computer
and you save it on to- on to EOS a memory stick, yeah, that’s it,
that’s what they’re called EOS but that- that wasn’t ten years ago,
and yet things have changed EOS I think the- the- I think the-
there’ll always be a qwerty keyboard, there’ll always be a qwerty
keyboard, on what- on whatever technology that you’re gonna use, cos
that’s our form of communication in the EOS so you’ll be right EOS
well I know our **anon** erm, give me a disc, ooh, I’m ashamed to say,
God knows where it is, but I think it- think it was called ECDL, but
that was literally, you taught yourself how to use a computer from the
CD, you just loaded the CD, and then it, you know, talked you how to
go through what to do, and I thought, ‘ooh, how fantastic’, but,
they’re something like seventy pound I think EOS she got it because
of- she got it through work, erm, so they wanna be giving them- them
out in erm, these lessons and say like, well do this in- in lesson and
then EOS yeah, and it’s not so much- I mean I’m pretty computer
literate but sometimes it’s the language they use EOS you know, that
EOS that is confusing cos they just think, ‘upload’, ‘upl- what does
up- rip and burn, yeah, within your computer EOS right, you see that’s
dead, dead easy, I’d be able to show you that EOS erm, but I tell you
on- one good tip, that somebody told me years ago, erm, on a computer
is, you know all you get- get a question mark, wherever you are,
there’s that, either question mark or a help EOS just click on that if
y- if you’re stuck on it and somewhere it’ll explain how to do what
you want to do, cos what I tend to do is I always have a- like a pad
at the side of the computer and then, whatever it tells me to do, I’ll
write it down, and some of the things are so easy, it’s like, ‘click
on start, click on programs, click on this, click on that, click on
that, click on that, right, change that to a ‘no’, you’re sorted’ EOS
and I’ll never remember it, like EOS the following day, once I’ve
slept, that’s it, but once it’s written down, it’s written out,
‘start, de, programs, blah, blah, blah’ EOS you do, you get blinkered,
what I- what I used- when I was training, what I used to do with
anyone in- in my office was say, right, there’s your pad, and I mean
them days we used to call them an idiot guide, you’re not allowed to
do that anymore, erm, but, say for example it was like, you know, rip
and burn, like, ‘click on that, click on that, click on that, click on
that’ right, now write it down, in those short phrases, not, ‘put your
disc in this’, just ‘click, click, click, click’ like a- a small,
short, a reminder, erm, and that’s it, right, you put that away, don’t
look at it, right, now you’ve not done rip and burning for six months,
right, get your idiot guide, get it out, ‘oh yeah’, click, click,
click, click, and it’s easy then EOS it becomes dead easy, and y’kn-
y- th- it- it takes away the fear, because it’ll be something, you
know, it- and I don’t care who you are, however brainy you are that
you’ll- you’ll just forget EOS what do I go into for that EOS erm, and
it- it’s just there for youone, two, three EOS I wouldn’t- I- I wouldn’t exactly call it the best
or funniest but it w- an incident that’s always stuck into my mind, I
wasn’t a- I wasn’t a lover of dolls, but me Mother’d dressed this doll
up for Christmas, and it was all in green georgette, I’ve never
forgotten that EOS and I’d gone out shopping with me Mother, we lived
up near Hope hospital then and I’d gone out with her, to Eccles, and
when I came back, the doll was on the settee, leant up against a- a
cushion, and me two older brothers were there, I hadn’t got the
younger one then, and erm, they’d scooted out of the house you see
when we came home and when I picked the doll up, and, they’d gagged it
EOS and I took the gag off and when I took the gag off the face was
split EOS oh, well, as I say, I didn’t care for dolls at all when I
was young EOS I still don’t, they’ve got to be very pretty dolls for
me to EOS so of course I was- I was a mardy so I started EOS crying
then, you know EOS so they were in trouble when me Dad came home from
work cos that was something- I treasured it because they didn’t have a
lot of money, you know, when we were children EOS that’s my thought
about my two brothers EOS you alright love? **anon** gone out EOS and
to go on holiday EOS we used to go to Fleetwood EOS me Mother always
said, ‘when I get some money, and I retire, I will come and live at
Fleetwood’ EOS which she never did EOS she never- she never had enough
money to buy a house there EOS yes, my Dad was EOS it is yes, really
EOS see, we can talk EOS yes I did, cause I lived in Salford then, you
know, in a terraced house, so there was plenty of children around EOS
oh wasn’t there, no? no, no, not until- I was way, oh, I musta been in
my twenties before I started doing any EOS I was in the Brownies EOS
and then in me teens I was in the girls training corps EOS and I
played a trumpet EOS I couldn’t sing so I played the trumpet EOS erm,
rally vino, erm, oh, I had a bike but it was EOS oh well, that wasn’t
very clever EOS I had three brothers erm, one four year older than me,
one two year older, and one eight year younger than me EOS who was
always called, ‘our youngster’ EOS well me Grandma remem- I remember
her telling me that me Grandfather who I didn’t know, erm, was
carrying erm, a bo- a coffin downstairs, and suddenly a noise came
from the coffin EOS and they were frightened to death but it- it’s
obviously th- the body wind comes out when it’s- and me Grandma used
to laugh her head off about it, she said, ‘you’re Granddad was worried
to death about it’ EOS did you ever get hurt- oh yeah- yes I do mm EOS
th- st- away EOS oh I know that- that happened in Salford with
somebody but EOS they- they were found on the ground you know, yeah,
that was near the town hall in Salford EOS oh yes, many a time EOS I-
I was climbing EOS on the back- in the yard at home EOS up the back
door, to the- that goes out into the entry, and it had slats across
like that, thick ones you know, I’d climbed up and then I slipped
down, I cut me knee open, so of course, I had to go up to EOS and erm,
I was going backwards and forwards for six months with that EOS yes,
it was stitched, but the stitches broke EOS and of course, you know,
those days it was EOS and erm, so I- that was one of my accidents EOS
I was very good at falling, even then Kristina **anon** EOS oh- oh I
didn’t, I just- I had measles EOS I had German measles when I was-
when I had **anon** EOS what kind of games did you play- Do you want
outdoor games there? oh well s- we have said some, haven’t we, oh yes
that was another EOS I do remember, I took me brother’s marble bag out
ooh, and I couldn’t play marbles EOS so of course, I- I lost them EOS
oh, my word EOS he was me favourite brother, and erm, he wasn’t me
favourite after that day, not for a few days, no EOS I wasn’t his
favourite girl, no EOS to the other EOS and I went to one called
**anon** in **anon**, Salford, then we moved up to near **anon**, and
it was **anon** EOS it was down a dirt path, and erm, from there, we
went back to **anon** and I went to **anon**, then I passed the
scholarship, clever so-and-so EOS erm, and went to **anon**, and that
had to close down because of the EOS so erm, and then they opened a
brand, new school, **anon** it was EOS and I finished up me schooling
there EOS oh I enjoyed school EOS but me Dad always used to say,
‘you’ll be sorry when you leave you EOS and I was never sorry when I
left EOS ooh, what do you remember from your f- so you were schooling
all your life really EOS what do you remember from your first day at
school? well I was only three when I went EOS and the story goes that,
I was missing one day and me- me Mother was- went looking for me and
erm, I was found in the school playground where me brother was going
to, and I did it a couple of times and so in the end he said, ‘oh, you
can leave her’ EOS so that’s how I started my school, at three EOS
well we used to go to Fleetwood, and we always stayed in a boarding
house where you- you did your own catering EOS it’s cheaper that way
you see and the- did she, yes EOS yeah, oh yes, you took provisions
EOS and then you went out and shopped for your bacon and stuff like
that, oh gosh, yeah EOS well I’ve d- when we went back to, erm,
**anon** after the blitz, we did a lotta sport, we used to go into
**anon** EOS and erm, or **anon**, which was next door and we used to
play Netball and Basketball and all sorts, you know EOS I was good at
that, the lads always chose me to be on their team EOS well we just
lived across the river from there EOS oh so- so he was a catholic then
EOS so he- it depends which side of Salford he lived in EOS if he went
to **anon** because EOS erm cos it’s the nearest- oh that was Weast
EOS describe your favourite teacher, well I think my favourite EOS was
me French teacher EOS she was a, quite a bonny lady, you know, but I
liked her EOS very much and me favourite teacher, well, erm, me least
favourite teacher, I remember her quite well EOS she w- I’ve- I’ve-
I’ve not got to mention the name have I EOS no, she wouldn’t be well,
her name was **anon** actually EOS but she was, no she wasn’t my
favourite teacher at all EOS how about you? did you ever get into
trouble for something at school? Yes EOS talking too much in class EOS
and were you ever blamed for something that wasn’t your fault? Yes I
EOS yes, well, me Dad had bought me a- a fountain pen and I- it went
missing, you know, and we were- the teacher had gone out of the class
and we were doing out work and then suddenly, this girl near me took
out my fountain pen EOS and just as the teacher walked back in, mouthy
**anon** shouted, ‘that’s my pen’ EOS so of course sh- she called me
out, and it w- the teacher that- that lesson used to teach me Dad and
erm, his sisters when they were young, ‘**anon**’ of course, that was
me maiden name, erm, ‘what’s the problem’ and, she said, ‘you’re
starting again’, I said, ‘no, th- that was my- that’s my pen that me
Dad bought me’ so you see, and she was blaming me for the- causing the
trouble EOS anyway, she apologised afterwards and I was allowed to go
and clean the cupboard out and I didn’t know whether that was an
honour or not, or a punishment, you know, cos I wasn’t- I didn’t do
cleaning EOS I do now but I didn’t then EOS but erm, but you see i-
if- if any- if I did something wrong EOS she used to say ‘hm, just
like your Father’ EOS and when I went to infant school there was a
teacher there that knew me Dad, phew, ‘typical of **anon** daughter’
used to say, you know EOS y- yeah he must’ve been, he must’ve been EOS
my parents were, Mother was well I don’t really know where she was
born to be honest because her par- her Mother died when she was three
erm, so I don’t really know a lot, but she went to live in erm,
Manchester, with erm, some Uncles and Aunts so, but the rest of her
life she lived in Salford EOS until she died mm EOS new garden city
EOS and two separate rooms EOS ten shilling one EOS of work, that’s
right EOS well I the last house me Mum and Dad were in erm, that was
rented of course, I got married from there, and then I got a house
exactly the same in the next street EOS two years after I got married,
yes EOS oh gosh, that’s- it has, and Salford has EOS I mean erm, now
then we had- somebody was correcting me the other day, I said about
Salford docks, al- well it was always known as Manchester docks, I
said it was still in EOS it was on our side of the river EOS and the
canal EOS that- if you were a drinker, yeah, yeah EOS that was on EOS
erm, Trafford Road EOS I didn’t drink so EOS I didn’t- I didn’t try
any of them EOS yes, you couldn’t pass a corner without a pub EOS yes,
oh yes, I always say when I go to The Lowry in Salford EOS me Dad was
erm, he had to go on work of national importance in the war because he
was too old for the forces and he was meant to- was sent as a docker
EOS and the difference in his- his dress when he- he was a docker and
when he was a- in his- his own job, you know EOS it’s unbelievable,
and like, we always say, ‘ooh, he’d turn over in his grave if he could
see these docks now’ you know EOS it is- I mean that is a- something-
a bonus to Salford that EOS and The Lowry EOS The Lowry, yeah EOS no,
I don’t, I mean they are saying that since the IRA bomb EOS it’s
improved it, but I don’t think it has EOS oh, that used to be
gorgeous, yes EOS no but erm- well I mean I don’t think EOS I don’t
think they should forget the war EOS erm, I think the youngsters want-
when I say something to my children now they say, ‘you should write a
book Mum’ you know EOS because of these incidents during the war, you
know EOS came from Salf- yes, they did EOS oh yes, yes, and- me Mother
was, erm, if there was anything happening in Salford, like I always
remember when the Bish- the- one of the Bishop’s died EOS the Catholic
Bishop’s died, and erm, of course we had to go to St- erm, Salford
Cathedral EOS we only stood outside the church, and there was meself
and me brother that’s two year older than me, and he was a very good-
looking child, you know and erm, somebody turned round and said to me
Mother, ‘ooh, hasn’t he got a saintly face’ EOS he wasn’t a saintly
child mind you EOS of course, when me Mother got home she said to me
Father, ‘somebody say hasn’t, erm, **anon** got a saintly face’ so for
ever- ever after that, me Dad always just say, ‘where’s the saintly
one’ EOS he was known as the saintly one EOS yes, ‘til me Dad died,
yes, and erm- oh I did, I’ve just told you all about that haven’t I,
sorry about that love EOS didn’t know about that EOS well I- I do go
to erm, **anon** sports centre on a Wednesday to play table tennis,
I’ve done that for years, not that- I play at playing it, that’s the
truth but EOS that one about- did you move house, what memories do you
have? We- well, when we went to live, erm, near Hope Hospital we were-
it was new property, and me Grandma had won the Irish sweepstake, so
she bought two houses EOS we moved into one of them EOS and, at the
end of the road where we lived there was the stream EOS and I used to
like fishing there for tadpoles, and one day it was absolutely
chucking it down, me Mother said, ‘has she gone fishing again’, so she
came and sorted me out you see, and there’s me sat with me jam jar,
and me little fishing net, and she said, ‘come on in, it’s too wet to
be sat here’ but I was enjoying meself, you know EOS so I had to go
in, I think she was frightened of me getting pneumonia EOS yeah and
then we go to the **anon** Theatre in- erm, just on the square EOS for
the evening bit EOS we used to go on a Thursday, yes we did EOS so
it’s a shame, really, oh did you, ooh you were posh then weren’t you
EOS ooh, I tell you, you see, it’s coming out she say- she’s quite
posh really, on the quiet you see- oh, I’ve heard of it EOS it’s, yes,
it was EOS on the television EOS I was working when that EOS the- and
why we didn’t close I don’t know EOS cause now they close things like
that don’t they EOS and that’s what happened to me, we moved to
**anon** so it’s just round the corner from Katrina **anon** EOS and
then erm, we- I moved here the month after Katrina **anon** EOS yes
they are EOS mm especially around, you know, in this square EOS but
when I- I walk a lot to Urmston EOS going up Moorside road, there’s
all sorts of people say, ‘morning’, they do, they’re very friendly EOS
yes, I think we’ve answered all those haven’t weyeah, that’s fine, okay, whenever you’re ready, thank you EOS it- no
you don’t have to no EOS you can do EOS was he naughty then? yeah, at
the Royal wedding they did EOS oh, okay, near **anon** EOS erm, I
could-right, we’re okay, oh, what was your best- what was your best or
funniest memory when you were young? I don’t know, erm, go on, if you
can think of anything you go first EOS that’s your thing EOS I think-
I think erm, I think mine is erm, going on erm, going on holiday, erm,
to Fleetwood, Knot End EOS erm, paddling in the paddling pool at Knot
End I think that’s- that’s one of my earliest memories when I was EOS
only- when I was only little EOS you know, but that was a great
adventure to go to EOS to Knot End EOS yeah, go on holiday, yeah EOS
oh, well I went to Fleetwood EOS as well cos I had relatives that
lived there so EOS that was erm, that was good EOS oh right, she never
did EOS no, I don’t know- I don’t know how we- we did it because me
Dad was out of work for ten years EOS when I was- when I was born, you
know and erm EOS so erm, there was no money coming in cos you were
means tested then EOS and- that’s going off the subject that isn’t it
EOS yeah, yeah, well, yes, we can EOS yeah erm, were there lots of
kids to play with when you were growing up? No not, no, I didn’t- no I
didn’t have- no, well I lived in Wythenshawe, I was born in
Wythenshawe EOS and erm, lived there all me life ‘til getting married
but there weren’t- weren’t very many children EOS no, no, not at all,
no. Did you have to help out around the house? No no, not at all, I
had an- what did you do in your free time? what did you and your
family do in free time when you’re growing up? I were mainly involved
with church work, boys- girls brigade and- and the choir, and Sunday
school, and- that was- were you? oh were you EOS here you are, what
games did you play as a kid? oh I’d a- I’d a- a scooter, you know EOS
oh I, yes, I had a bike that was second hand EOS first time on it I
went down the kerb and fell off it EOS didn’t have any brothers and
sisters EOS can you remember a good story that your par- grandparents
used tell you oh, I don’t know about that, erm, oh EOS that’s right
yes EOS one- o- one story- yeah, erm, yeah, when erm when th- do you
remember when Manchester was bombed EOS well that night of that raid,
erm, it was, I think it was a Saturday because we were going to church
the following morning, and church was in Moss Side EOS and of course
that’d got badly hit, and when I got to Sunday school, the Sunday
school t- our- my Sunday school teacher, **anon** wasn’t there and
nobody knew where she was and erm, there was a search went out for
her, and her house had been bombed EOS and they found her, in her bed,
three streets away EOS in the loft of another house EOS and I can- I
can remember that EOS oh right, right EOS did you get hurt whilst
playing when you were a kid? yeah, but a- but not- not badly- not
badly hurt, I was never badly- I had a lot of illnesses and erm, spent
a lot of time off school erm, so consequently when me Mother took me
back, unfortunately the teacher we had didn’t think there was any
point in teaching me cos I’d missed too much school EOS and so I could
sit at the back of the class, and what I took in, I took in, and what
I didn’t, I didn’t, so she wasn’t interested in EOS no I just had all
the ailments, measles, chicken pox, whooping cough, all the- all the
lot I had one after the other EOS oh I had German meas- I remember the
doctor coming and saying, ‘why couldn’t you’ve had English measles,
cos we’re fighting the Germans’ EOS remember playing marbles and- oh
right, so did you loss them EOS you lost them, oh dear EOS no, no, I
bet, no EOS no, I bet he wasn’t your- you weren’t his favourite either
EOS no erm, right, what’s the next one EOS where did you go to school?
I went to school in **anon**, that’s where I was born, school was only
round the corner, I went from being five, to being fifteen, I never
passed any exams, so I was just at the same school, just went from one
end of the field, to the other end of the field, infants and juniors
and seniors, that- that was me, until I left at fifteen EOS I didn’t
enjoy school, as you can guess with missing out so much, so my school
days were not particularly happy days at all EOS mm, and I don’t
remember me first day at school at all EOS no, I wasn’t either, no EOS
and then funnily enough I went into another school, nursing schools,
so I was at school again yeah EOS were you ever blamed for something
that wasn’t your fault? oh, at three EOS oh right what were your
summer holidays like? Well summer EOS as I say were, during the war
and that it was very difficult really wasn’t it EOS so I don’t know
my- how my parents managed to take me on holiday but we- we always
went as I say, usually Clevelees, Fleetwood, round there stay with
erm, a relative did get as far as Torquay once EOS that’s right, yeah,
yeah EOS remember Mum used to send a trunk on, in advance EOS yeah and
then take erm, provisions with us EOS mm, went to Wales, did remember
going to Wales to Capel Curig in W- during the war, and we stayed with
this erm, lady, I think it was a farm, because we couldn’t believe the
meals we were getting EOS there were joints of meat EOS and sides of
bacon and EOS all the things that we didn’t get EOS at home, you know,
it was erm, absolutely wonderful for a week, so I don’t know how we
managed that, I’ve no idea about that one erm, activities at school?
No, the only thing I did at school was music, I didn’t mind that cos
that was the only thing I was interested in, no sports at all, or
drama EOS oh yeah, yeah EOS oh right, yeah EOS I remember **anon**
saying about **anon** because he was born in erm, in Salford, yeah EOS
yeah he went to school in Salford EOS oh did you EOS he went to erm
EOS ooh, I can’t remember its name now no, can’t remember its name,
can remember he went to **anon** church EOS well his- his- his Dad was
EOS cause his Dad was **anon**, he took the name **anon** EOS for his
confirmation you know EOS I know that- I know they lived for a part on
**anon** EOS Weast and then he lived somewhere else as well, cos his
Mum had a EOS but I can’t remember where that was, it was an off
license and EOS but erm I can’t remember- I can’t remember me teachers
can’t remember their names no EOS well, that was me- that was me music
teacher erm EOS oh right, oh we didn’t do languages EOS I shouldn’t
think she’ll be alive now EOS oh yeah, yeah, well that was a bit like
the one EOS who decided I wasn’t worth teaching EOS so, and I can’t
remember her name, no way EOS he must’ve been, mustn’t he EOS right,
where are your parents from EOS well, my paren- my Mother was from
Manchester, she was from erm, an area in Moss Side, and my Father my
Father was born, erm, in Liverpool EOS erm, how has your community
changed in recent- well I don’t know about the community in
Wythenshawe, I think that’s erm, that’s changed quite a bit
unfortunately it got a bad reputation but erm, when my parents went-
moved from Moss Side to Wythenshawe they were asked, would they like
to go and live in the ga- the new garden EOS which was Wythenshawe and
they erm, they moved to there, and there erm, house, and did they want
the one with the kitchen on the front or did- and the living room, or
did they want the one with a front parlour and a living room- yeah one
was erm, the one with the kitchen on the front was ten shillings a
week, and the other one was ten and six, so they had to have the ten
shilling one EOS because me Dad was out of work EOS yeah, yeah and
they- they spent all the- all their life and I did, right until I
married EOS oh did you EOS what’s taken places in your town? Ooh, I
don’t know EOS Manchester’s changed a lot hasn’t it really EOS and
Salford has hasn’t it EOS it was Salford docks EOS that’s right, yeah
EOS yeah, Salford docks, there was a pub on- there was supposed to be
a pub on every corner and you could- you could never complete it could
you EOS you could never complete the- the circuit could you EOS yeah,
that was a- yeah, I remem- I remember that erm- we didn’t but I EOS
just remember that saying, you know, that erm- that’s right, yeah,
yeah, erm, it’s nice to see that they’ve left the two cranes really,
part of the heritage at erm, Salford docks, don’t EOS you know, cos I
mean, most of it’s gone now hasn’t it? yeah, yeah, yeah, **anon** was
amazed to see EOS you know, he did live to see all that erm, that
change, you know, and EOS he was quite pleased with how they’d- they’d
changed it and- it is really, isn’t it EOS and the way they’ve cleaned
up the canal and EOS everywhere round there, Manchester, I think
Manchester’s EOS I don’t think that’s done any the better- for the
better EOS I think Manchester’s gone down- I don’t think so, no, no
EOS Piccadilly gardens, it used to be lovely EOS we used to spend
hours there in the garden EOS now it’s just a EOS mess and a down-and-
out’s place really isn’t it EOS I don’t- I don’t think Manchester’s
got a lot to shout about at the EOS what local events, news, history
do you think is important people EOS I mean there’s lots EOS incidents
and events, yeah, yeah, there was a lot went on really EOS and there’s
a lotta well known people EOS cam from Salford and Manchester didn’t
they EOS I don’t think they’re remembered as they erm, as they should
be EOS but erm, and the whit walks and things like that, you know, I
mean, the saintly one EOS did you move house at all when you were
younger? No, we never moved house at all, so, no, it’s alright EOS
what fun things are there to do in your community? What, this
community here we’re in, now EOS well, there’s quite a lot we’re erm,
always going on about EOS mm yeah we have quite a- a few things really
EOS that we’re involved in aren’t we EOS we have events at church,
don’t we? and we go to the **anon** Theatre regularly EOS and we go to
The Lowry EOS theatre, don’t we? regularly, erm, we support Macmillan,
there events at erm, Trafford EOS erm, you have a group that you go to
EOS I go to a- a little theatre in **anon** that’s been going for
years, I go there regularly with erm, with some friends what else have
we got erm it’s a shame our local, erm, just in this- off the EOS
**anon**, that has closed now for el- older people, erm we used to go
there on a Thursday, didn’t we EOS and that was really good EOS but
erm, the cost of hire of the room and everything, it’s erm, they’ve
had to shut down after, what was it, fifty years EOS fifty years
they’ve been going EOS so a lot of the old people were really upset
about that EOS have you lived anywhere else other than the town, city
where you live now? I lived not far away from here, I’ve only been
here for three years, I did live erm, from Wythenshawe I went to- when
I first married I went and lived in Cheadle EOS mm, with me first
husband, yes I was quite posh, I went and lived there, erm, but that
marriage, erm, failed- oh I lived in, when I was nursing, I lived at
erm, Bowden at, do you remember d- yeah, yeah, yeah, do you remember
**anon** Hospital? it’s a- it was a n- like a nursing home EOS you
went from **anon** EOS you could go into **anon** to recoup EOS and I-
I went- I lived there, I w- I was there when it was the Queen’s
coronation, cos I wanted to watch it on the- they had a television
there, and we didn’t have one, and I wanted to watch it but the matron
decided that would be my first night on nights, so I had to go to bed
that day, so I couldn’t see the EOS had to wait, to go home, and watch
it on me Mother’s friends, erm EOS you know, erm EOS yeah, but erm, so
I live- I lived there for a go- and then erm, then of course I- I
married- I married **anon** in nineteen-sixty, we lived in Wythenshawe
with me Mum for a while, and then we got the house just in **anon**
EOS you know, watched that being built and- and moved there and then
three years ago I came here so EOS mm, that’s right, yeah EOS what are
local people like? Very nice EOS yeah, yes, we can’t say anything
other than that really can we EOS no, I suppose we’re fortunate in
having a good group of people really aren’t we EOS especially in th-
in this square, yeah EOS yes they do, yeah EOS yeah, we find that
really EOS yeah, I think we haveYep. That’s fine. ooh, sorry, I’ll just get that EOS Where in **anon**
is it? Yeah, was he? Really, aww that’s nice. Oh that’s nice. Is that
those really small ones? Yeah **anon** was saying. No it’s okay it
gets edited out. it’s all coming back oh no EOS What’s a gypsy pie?
Yeah, mm that sounds nice. that’s okay then EOS No you don’t EOS Why
was she so bad? Cos she smelt? Put you off. oh, that’s nice EOS just
help out EOS Oh that’s nice.One, two, three. Er shall I start? Oh, skipping Erm there was one
called erm Rallyvo. Used to throw a ball at the wall er and try and
hit you with it, I think EOS Hopscotch. That was always a good one.
Used to play horses EOS me friends used to gallop round the
playground. That was always a good one. And we used to play- no. Just
used to chase and make this noise . What did you play? Erm right,
erm-. That’s not good. Oh my god what? Oh my god! That’s terrible. Oh
we didn’t. Well my very favourite game was playing school in my
friend’s shed. That used to be brilliant. Used to be four of us. Great
times. I was always the teacher. Cos I was the oldest . Anyway, did
you help out around the house a lot, when you were a kid? Well we did.
Setting fire to the grass. I’m surprised you’re not in prison now. I’m
surprised you’re not in prison now. killing rabbits, yeah. Oh my god.
Oh my god Right then. Loved it, it was great fun Big thing was getting
all the- it used to be a really big thing if you used to get a new pad
and pencils and pens and- used to share them all out and used to set
homework and- It was good fun, used to love it. Had a blackboard in
there as well, and- cos I was the oldest, and that was a time, I
remember running home, I was only about ten or eleven and I was in a
rush, they were all waiting for me at the door. And I tripped over a
EOS over the banister, and fell down the stairs from top to bottom and
broke my arm. Remember that, yeah I was about ten, ten or eleven years
old when that happened. Yes I did. I did hit my head, but- there was
no lasting damage. No lasting damage anyway. So you didn’t do anything
to help out at home? Nothing at all? We had to, to get spends. So if
we didn’t do our jobs, we didn’t get spends. End of. God what a
different childhood we had. An awful lot. Yeah, yes I did. Erm what is
your best or funniest memory from when you were a child? What at home?
We used to have to Ewbank the carpet, cos I wasn’t allowed to use the
hoover cos I used into bang into the furniture too much with it. A
Ewbank- A Ewbank is like a hoover with no motor. Used to push it up
and down, up and down, up and down. No, no No used to just push it up
and down up and down, it used to hoover everything but without a
motor. It had brushes on it. So I used to have to Ewbank the carpet
and then we used to have to polish, but EOS No we didn’t used to make
the noise of the hoover, no we didn’t. Erm, yeah polishing, washing
pots. But we had to do that properly. Otherwise, if we didn’t do it
properly, then we didn’t get our EOS She used to dock us money. Erm-.
oh n- now no I’m talking about in th- in the seventies. Everyone had a
Ewbank. Did you not? I remember you had a Ewbank. But you and me have
been together thirty odd years, so yeah I remember when me and you
were courting. You had a Ewbank in your house. I’m sure it was orange.
or that could’ve been mine EOS Well you wouldn’t have used it because
you didn’t do anything to help your mum. But- yes you did! he used to
make fairy cakes with his mum. Well what is it then? So did you used
to cook with your mum? And what did you used to make? Ah. And what
happened, what did your brothers used to do to you? And they used to-?
And called him a girl. No you’re quite right. I’m a professional! Lots
and lots of stories. Yes he did. My grandfather was known as the
storyteller. In our house, wasn’t he? About how he was lost at sea in
the merchant navy for a year, and presumed dead. and then he just
turned up. Yes it was, was it not in the war? I can’t remember. My
granddad was **anon** they lived in er EOS He did not desert! He did
not desert. He wasn’t- he was captured, his ship got blown up and they
were rescued and- and then they lived somewhere, I can’t remember. No,
no they weren’t. Oh you’re talking about that granddad. My EOS He was
a deserter. I think so. I don’t know the whole story about that but
EOS he changed- changed his name, the- the spelling of the surname so
they couldn’t trace him or something. But I don’t know why they did
that. I don’t know, anyway. How about your family? Yeah, and we all
believed him. And what was the hole really? And we all believed him.
When I first started going out with Martin **anon** he told me he’d
been shot in the neck. I was fifteen and er for maybe twenty years, is
it twenty years, I believed him. All that time. That he’d been shot in
the neck, but his mum was shot, she had shap- shrapnel in her legs,
she’s **anon** Martin’s **anon** mum. And er when the- when the planes
came over, and the- they were shooting in the fields or something,
weren’t they? the English yeah in a field. yeah. She told us some
right stories, your mum didn’t she? From- she had it really hard.
There’s I think nine of them, wasn’t there? Something- was there nine
brothers and sisters. And it really, really hard eating frozen
potatoes out of the ground when they were kids. And yeah, in Germany
Mm must’ve been hard for her. mmhmm, erm, how many brothers and
sisters do you have? And did you get along with each other when you
were kids? So you were picked on by all of them. I used to batter my
brother, seven years between us. I used to batter him all the time EOS
Make him do things to- for me, or I’d torture him. He was only little.
Oh how horrible! Still don’t get on now EOS No that’s not true. That’s
not true, we do get on, so EOS It’s it’s- give me your wrist and I’ll
show you. No well you used to grab the wrists with your two hands EOS
and you used to go like that. And it used to burn. Used to twist the
skin on your wrist EOS Yes. In opposite directions, and you used to
scream. But my most favourite one to do with him EOS was the cow bite.
Was to grab him like that and squeeze dead hard, until he’d shift from
the chair. We always used to fight where we used to sit you see. So-
that’s what we used to do. I’m sure my brother used to hate me. and I
used to think it was funny and he used to scream. But then me dad
would always intervene and I’d get battered off me dad. I’m gonna ask
him when I see him now EOS Oh, ouch. She’s quite torturous, his
mother. Isn’t she, she’s- threw a turtle on the fire. Cos she thought
it was dead and it was hibernating. No No it’s not. Now there was the
kitten down the toilet. She told me she used to put kittens- oh no in
a bucket of water. When she was- when they were a kid on the farm.
There were too many cats. That’s what her dad used to do. dunk them in
a bucket of water. Didn’t she? Squished its head. That was horrible.
And the budgie. On your cup of tea, he’d stand on your cup of tea.
Didn’t he? Not very good at keeping animals were you really? We had a
cat called Ginger and my dad used to call him fleabag. And he got run
over and lost his leg, his front paw. and he used to be full of fleas
EOS Fleabag, ‘go away fleabag!’ Used to go mad at him, always clawing.
I had a guinea pig when I was really little. Me dad hated that as
well. Mm. He died. He just used to hate him, he used to say he was
dead noisy. But that was from when I was really little, when I lived
in **anon**. And I left there when I was seven or eight, I think I
was. I remember the hutch in the back- in the back yard next to the
toilet. Cos we had an EOS Can’t remember really, I was only little.
But we had an inside one as EOS No no, two up, two down. No there was
a toilet outside and then there was my mum and dad’s bedroom and then
there was my bedroom and then there was a wall with a door in that me
dad put up and there was a toilet in there. Upstairs but you had to
come through my bedroom to get to the toilet. It was the toilet
upstairs. Definitely. With glass at the top and this studded wall.
Horrible it was. Did you not have an inside toilet? That toilet that
you’ve got now? That’s an inside toilet. You’ll be saying newspaper
next. No you did not. That’s not true! Oh we used to have, Izal. Izal
was paper. It was horrible. It was, you had to scrunch it all up
first. Oh it EOS We were posher than Martin **anon** in our family EOS
because we went to-. Yes we did and we went to Majorca EOS when I was
little. With me **anon** and **anon** on a plane and I was about eight
or nine. And I remember sitting next to the pool eating EOS Rings,
chewy rings. Got- still got the photographs of that. I had an orange
and yellow dress on, that me nanna made. Mm, and a towelling bikini,
with spots EOS Roll of squid. I remember- I remember it really, really
well. No we weren’t calling them that, it was squid. Yeah, remember
it. We did go on one. Only one foreign holiday. No, no that was when I
was a bit older cos like I say with being Mediterranean in the family,
we all had wine. Two fingers EOS two fingers of wine in the glass,
topped up with lemonade or water. That was only one, with me **anon**
and me **anon** that I remember that EOS No we didn’t get holiday
every year. Isle of Man. I remember going to the Isle of Man. did you
not used to go to **anon**? Oh my god. Watching your granddad die. Oh
god . You had a terrible childhood didn’t you? Oh my god it was a bit
of a flipping- Do you know what I did do which was really bad? This is
terrible this. He bought my mum- there used to be a chocolate bar
called a nutty. And it- it was like caramel- that’s what they were
called, do you remember nuttys? And it was caramel EOS and it was
wrapped in like peanuts and he bought it me mum for mother’s day and
kept it in the cupboard. He bought it with his spends. And I’ll never
forget, oh I can’t believe I did this, but I stole it and I ate it.
Cos I wanted this chocolate bar so, so much. And I denied all
knowledge for- it was up until a couple of years ago. I told him the
truth. He always used to say to me, ‘you did take that nutty, didn’t
you?’ And I used to go, ‘no I didn’t!’ and I did. And it was only a
few years ago when- cos I go and visit him maybe once a year. Or once
every two years, I can’t- and I told him the truth. And he was really
upset with me. Yeah, cos he EOS give it her for mother’s day. I got
her milk tray. And I can- I remember I got my mum a box of milk tray
and you got a free happy mother’s day card with it. And when she died
she still- when we were going through all her stuff, we found it,
she’d kept it all that time. All that time, she kept it. And this
little card as well, best mum in the world. Couldn’t believe she kept
it all that time. I was a very nice daughter. oh don’t tell her that!
Yes I remember. I can’t remember now. I can’t remember why. No I can
remember, I can remember doing it very clearly. Oh I can’t- I can’t
remember why I did that now. Why you annoyed me so much. Why, tell me
why! Cos you didn’t get me one? I can’t remember. Er where are your
parents from? Oh we’ve established that really, No go on! Where are
your parents from? But you and your brother are spitting image of each
other! With your big freaky head. He had a huge head. Yeah with the
biggest afro you’ve ever seen in your life, it used to EOS Your head,
your hair used to move before your head did. . your brother told me!
He said your head- your afro was that big it used to wave in the EOS I
don’t know. So where’s your dad from? My dad was born in Salford.
Wasn’t he? And lived in **anon**. M’: That’s a nice move that, isn’t
it? There was a toilet upstairs, there was a toilet upstairs. It was
not a slum! Knocking the houses down, because my dad used to work for
a company EOS Erm and I think the houses, I’m not- I’m not too sure
about that. I know all the houses were originally built for the
factories weren’t they, that were there. For the factory workers. But
I’m sure it was my mum and dad’s house. You know I’m pretty sure it
was and they moved us to **anon**. Cos they were pulling them all
down. But they didn’t pull them down for about five years, did they?
Moved everybody out and then didn’t pull them down EOS But happy,
happy childhood my best friends, **anon**, **anon** and **anon** used
to live across the road. Yeah, I remember that, playing with the prams
having races down the street with our prams. Playing cricket in the
entry. Couldn’t play cricket now but . I can catch a ball. I can catch
a ball. Oh here we go again. He was on holiday, he was throwing this
ball at me in the sea, and he was skidding it so it was like that, ‘.’
EOS And it was splashing all the water in your face. Well you’re like
that shutting your eyes, and you can’t catch a ball with your eyes
shut. Him and **anon** played for-. Throwing it at each other. For
about an hour, nearly put your shoulder out. So yes I can catch a ball
EOS **anon** in particular. Oh that’s okay. She’s- she was terrible.
She’s really, really evil. Used to- she had a knack, she used to throw
the board rubber and she used to get you EOS It just- it- there had to
be complete silence in the classroom and if you dared ask someone next
to you for a pencil or- oh my god, you used to get it. And you used to
have to stand in the corner- there was a teacher called er **anon**
and your nose had to be on the wall, like that which- just stand
there, all through the lesson. Until she was ready for you to sit back
down. She was evil, horrible woman, horrible. That’d be child abuse
now I’m sure it would be. Can’t touch them now. Erm, how about you at
school? He’s really clever he went to a grammar school, didn’t you? I
loved my school, **anon**, and then **anon**. A little bit yeah Mm, I
did. You used to- but- but you used to be a bully at school. Is that
not a bully? You used to batter anyone? And you were the top of the
pack, were you? Suppose yeah, it is. I remember my first day at
secondary school. When I was eleven. I do remember that. Me nanna and
granddad bought me this bloody briefcase. I just wanted a backpack,
like everyone else. That’s all I wanted was this backpack. But my
nanna and granddad- well it was me granddad, he’d gone to London to
see his mother. And it was them in the house that had give him this
briefcase that used to be my uncle’s. Oh god and it was brown and it
was horrible, with this big buckle thing on the front, oh I hated it
so much, and I had to take it to school. And they just laughed their
heads off at EOS I hated it. Hated it so much. What did you have? Oh
Martin **anon** it was awful. It was brown, like dark- like- like a
tan brown. It was so noticeable. Oh and it used to make this clicking
noise, oh god. Yeah you couldn’t even open it quiet EOS you couldn’t
even open it quiet. everyone used to look. My lovely pencils. Cos I
used to love my pencils and my felt tip EOS And my books. And me
dinner tickets. I was dead skinny then I was, I was really skinny. I
did yeah. I am a catering manager thank you very much. I manage the
kitchen. I manage my cook, and my washer uppers. I do cooking, I do
the c- I do the main meals, yes. Yeah, things like rice pudding,
tapioca, erm lemon sponge and custard. Chocolate sponge with mint
custard, that’s one of the EOS Er no it’s a mint- it’s a mint erm
essence. It’s a pure- pure mint essences we use. Erm it’s a food
colourant. Yeah but we use one teaspoon for four gallons of custard.
It is cos it only ever hi- hi- a tinge of green, if I make it too
green, they won’t have it. If you took it neat? I’m sure it would do
irreparable damage to your insides. But watered down- well they do say
if you eat beta carotene, which is a natural food colourant in
carrots, that it is in tanning tablets and that’s what makes you go
brown. If you take enough of them, yeah EOS You’re very weird. No I
don’t. yeah, that’s a very, very weird thing to ask. Anyway what else
do I make? Make all sorts of favourites, cobbler, minced beef cobbler
they like. When I was at school? I never bullied EOS yeah I never
bullied at school. I was bullied. No I was never- I never ever bullied
at school. But my favourite thing at school was gypsy pie. It was the
best thing ever. My mum tried to make it and she could never make it
the same. Gypsy pie is pastry, jam, and then a mixture of desiccated
coconut and golden syrup. And one or two other bits and bobs in it.
And cornflakes, all mished together and you put it on top and it’s EOS
Couldn’t eat it now. But er- and we used to have er mince and onion
pie as well EOS at school with mashed potatoes and gravy. That was
another big, big favourite, cos my mum never used to make pies. I used
to love that What was yours? I used to love them EOS Cos you used to
get seconds. Jam and rice pudding’s the big favourite at my school.
They love it, one of their favourite, favourite puddings. Oh do you
remember them? I used to love that, shortbread with chocolate on the
top, wasn’t it? I used to love them EOS Yeah used to say, ‘dundee’
underneath didn’t they? Sugar on it EOS You never had one? oh my god!
my, God Martin **anon**. And do you know what he used to do as well,
when he was little? It’s EOS They er- they had a corner shop. And they
used to climb over the wall, pinch the bottles, take the bottles, come
back over, go into the front of the shop, give the shop keeper the
bottles and we used to get five p back for them EOS was it five p or a
penny or something. For his own- for his own- from his own bottles.
Terrible, you were really bad you EOS Yeah, erm. In your opinion, how
has your community changed in recent years? Oh it’s changed loads
hasn’t it? Dog poo! Dog poo’s not white any more. Because it’s the
bones. The bonemeal that used to be in dog food. And they stopped
doing it because of, is it BSM? BS- BS- oh what’s it called? Mad cow
disease. Are you sure I thought that’s why they stopped doing them. So
yeah, you don’t see white dog poo any more. Apart from my dog, who
only has white dog poo. Cos all he eats is raw chicken EOS and bones,
doesn’t he? Er **anon** he was the headmaster. This is in secondary
school, I liked him. He was always really kind, Firm but kind. We used
to do something well and he a- he always used to give you sweets. We
used to have a sweet called mojos. And he used to give us a mojo to
eat. Used to love curly wurlys as well. And fudge. Fudges and curly
wurlys, yeah, and I used to love pear drops, they were my favourites
and my dad used to get cough candies for work and I always used to
pinch them . You never used to get any did you not? Who was your best
friends? And they used to get sweets. Oh was she that bad? and you
didn’t know why they were laughing? in front of your mates? How old
were you? Oh get lost! how old were you? Did she smell? ooh, where
does she live? that was my address you liar! No it was not. Do you
know her now? We’ve still got a lot of friends that still live in the
community though, haven’t we? Still live in the same place. All our
lives really. we’re still friendly- few- quite a few friends have
moved away, haven’t they? **anon** moved away to where is he Leek? Is
it Leek? yeah Leek. He’s moved away. **anon** just moved to Cornwall
and- But still a lot of friends-. We’re turning into them, yeah. Forty
six, forty seven, yeah. We’re classed as middle aged now aren’t we?
Yeah single parent’s thing, yeah. Yeah, where all our kids were
christened. Oh, just reminded me- yeah. You just reminded me then when
er- when I- we used to- Yeah when I- Is now empty all the time. Full
of little scabby kids, isn’t it now? Scary, it’s horrible. We don’t go
in. Er but, talking about that old people’s place, when I went to
**anon** we all used to have to go and do stuff in the community like
help a EOS and me and one of my friends, **anon** **anon** we used to
have to go to the- that old people’s home on a- on a Saturday or
Sunday and just do something for folk, you know just EOS have a chat
or EOS go and walk round the garden with one of them. **anon**,
**anon** her name was, the lady we had. Then she died. No she gave me
an ornament, I always remember that. I dunno what happened to it
though, a little- She gave it to me! She gave one to me. She gave one
to me and she gave one to **anon**. Little fairy thing it was. All
chipped and battered. Cos we always used to dust her ornaments for
her. No she gave them you. Pinching from blooming shop keepers. she
was old, no, used to push her round in her wheelchair in the EOS In
the wheelchair around the garden. Cos they used to have big rose beds
didn’t they, do you remember? Yeah they were lovely. What was it
called? **anon** that’s it. Yeah old people’s- for old people. Used to
have like a community room as well downstairs. With a tv and-. Yeah.
It was it was lovely. No it’s horrible.One two three. Are we on then? is that what I was doing- right, then I
dunno Games you played when you were a kid. What, on top of each
other? I don’t particularly remember them doing that in my school.
From morning to night. Amd we used to play on the railway. On the
sidings. Pinching things from Kelloggs. Stoning trains, was always a
good one. Putting stones on the track. Setting fire to the grass, that
was always good fun. That’s what we used to do as kids. Kids are
mollycoddled now they couldn’t go anywhere near the railway. Never did
anything whatsoever. My mum used to do the lot. I wouldn’t be in the
house anyway cos I’d be out playing. Football. On the railway. On the
canal playing with my air rifle. Another thing kids couldn’t do these
days. Shooting things. Smashing bottles, killing birds. Sparrows,
Anything that moved, basically. Each other sometimes. Ah it’s my
education that kept me out. friend’s dog, little Jack Russell. If I
was allowed to go. Always cliques in gangs. Some people can do things,
some other people can’t. Bigger lads always used to go, sometimes we
could tag along. That was EOS Watching the dog get them. Flushing them
out with the ferrets. Yeah that’s what you do, put a ferret down the
hole, wait for it to flush the rabbit out, and then the dog would go
and get the EOS While you were playing school, we couldn’t wait to get
out of school. And you’re finishing school and going to play it. No
permanent damage done then. Didn’t hit your head did you? Ah well
maybe that explains a few things then. Used to help an elderly
neighbour for cash. I- I take it you used to help out then did you?
But- but what did you do then? Helping out. Yeah, you’re saying, ‘oh
well yeah I helped out a lot,’ but what did you do to help out? What’s
a Ewbank? A Ewbank, what’s a Ewbank? What sucking, making sucking
noises like a horsey game? You- you just- Did you make the noise of
the hoover when you were Ewbanking? Do you think Dyson could make a
Ewbank? I don’t remember one. How do you know? You wasn’t there! Well
I never u- well I never used it. That’s not helping me mum. That was
making food EOS for me to eat. Occasionally. That was-. Used to tease
me. Well the older one would. Yeah they all wanted some of the fairy
cakes. Wouldn’t say that now they see- now they see Gordon Ramsey they
wouldn’t be saying that, would they? If I’d have followed that path
maybe I wouldn’t be here now. Bigger and better things. I might’ve
been a better cook than you, I probably am a better cook than you, but
that’s-. That’s something else. So then this will be an easy one for
you. Because er- your grandparents- did your grandparents ever tell
you any stories? What, your granddad told you stories? Wasn’t during
the war, was it? In some countries they call it deserting, don’t they?
Were they captured by members of their own family? No not the Irish
side, not the first world war side. Probably so they didn’t have to
fight. Yeah they told me stories yeah. My father told me a story about
when he was shot in the neck. Well you would believe him, he’s got a
hole in his neck where he was EOS It was er tuberculosis. Given to him
by cow’s milk I believe. My mum wasn’t shooting. She was picking- she
was picking potatoes. Little girl picking- picking potatoes in a field
and er a hurricane pilot decided she was a legitimate target. And er
opened the machines gun- machine guns at her. And she ended up with
shrapnel in the top of her thigh. Something like yeah. Not like me you
see. Privileged life that we lead. Some of us more than others. none
of them. Youngest brother probably, eldest brother used to bully EOS
tease me, together with my dad. And me younger brother. All of them,
middle child, So can you describe what a Chinese burn actually is?
That- it’s no good for the tape is it? Showing. What in opposite
directions? Well my brother used to give me cow bites. I used to hate
him. Used to give me cow bites on the back of the arm, just pinch the
back of the arm. And he used to think it was funny. And I used to
scream. Think my dad used to join in. I think these days they’d call
it child abuse. Yeah I can remember- and punishment from me mum.
Always used to hand out the beatings. the flat back of a hairbrush.
Say, it’s not funny is it? What do you mean, kittens down the toilet?
She did yeah. She had a terrible accident one day with her favourite
little kitten. When she closed the door without looking and her
favourite little fluffy kitten got in the way. Not very nice. Oh we
had a budgie, happy bird it was absolutely fantastic, used to pick
your teeth. Sit on your shoulder, come to you whenever you called him.
Yep, he’d been rescued. Flown into my sister-in-law’s office. And she
brought him home and we kept him. And then me dad decided to give him
an airing, outside in his cage. And the cat got on top of the cage.
And we never seen happy bird ever again. I wasn’t bad. What colour was
he? So you called him Ginger and fleabag. How could he hate a guinea
pig? What was it like then, using your outside toilet? Did you used to
live in a mansion when you lived in **anon**? With- two up two down
with two toilets? So you used to have an ensuite? So whilst the only
person in the country with ensuite was the Queen, you also had one? So
an inside toilet was horrible? While I’m going outside EOS in the
depths of winter. No we didn’t have an inside toilet no. I can
remember it- that’s- that’s a- that’s an inside toilet that’s been
turned round from the outside. Originally that was an outside toilet.
With red walls that had been speckled with paint, like you’d do in
school. To splash on the paper. And that’s what we used to have. With
a nail. And newspaper. Newspaper. Cut up into sheets. That’s true.
Izal. Don’t sound proud of it! It’s nothing to be proud of, to have
Izal. That was luxu- that was luxury, we had- when we had the Izal in
that was like our luxury, rather than the newspaper. That was like a
good day. If you went in there and there was Izal in there that was
like, ‘yeah it must be pay day.’ EOS You’ll have come from **anon**,
you couldn’t have been- oh no you did have two toilets didn’t you? So
you were there in nineteen seventy two, eating cala- what, And you
were calling them calamari in nineteen seventy two? So you had a
toilet upstairs. And you used to go on foreign holidays. And eat
calamari. I bet you were drinking wine as well, wasn’t you? And
there’s me being dragged off to me bleeding grandmas in Windsor, into
a tower block. Yeah, really yeah. The old fifth floor of a tower block
or something. That was my summer holidays. Unless it was every year,
this. Wasn’t an holiday it was like punishment. That was when I was
older. I was just visiting family then, not holiday I was visiting
family. ‘Go- go to **anon**, go to **anon** and watch your granddad
die.’ Ah, so EOS That’s what we did. It was er near EOS **anon**,
**anon**. We had a good time it was nice meeting family. Couldn’t
under- watching me granddad die. Couldn’t understand a word EOS But
yeah, enjoyed it Not Windsor, I didn’t, that’s a bit EOS Well other
than going round the castle, the castle was alright. Just me and me
younger brother then so I wouldn’t be bullied all the M; Remember
having a bath once with my sister, well I wasn’t bathing with my
sister. That would be a bit weird, wouldn’t it? But she bathed me, I
don’t know, she would’ve been quite old as well, maybe twelve or
thirteen. Twelve probably I’d have been about eight. And for a laugh
she poured sco- scolding water on me head. I don’t know if it was cold
water first or hot water. But whatever it was, she told me to stop
complaining and put the other one on top of me head afterwards. It’s
no wonder I’m a twisted individual I suppose. See that’s my childhood,
see? Yeah so did your **anon**. So did your brother. Being bullied by
you, that’s how he- That’s how he feels. I’m sure that’s how he feels.
That’s why he’s gone to America. Because he had to leave because he
couldn’t stay in this country any EOS That sounds attractive that. No,
could never afford chocolates. Well he would be. Cos all he wanted to
do as a child was please his EOS All I wanted to do was please my mum,
make cakes with my mum, and I got teased and ridiculed. And all he
wanted to do was buy his mum a chocolate bar. And give it for mother’s
day, was it? And then somebody nasty and older went and spoilt it.
Spoilt his special day. His day with his mum. She probably was quite-
I dunno, a bit er- surprised that you’d been so nice for once. Cos
she’d probably see all the things that you did to your brother and-
but you continued to- well you always liked chocolate didn’t EOS Doing
things with chocolate EOS I know it’s not about childhood because you
know, when- when I had my EOS Remember I had my easter egg? When we
were married. And you got me an EOS On easter Sunday morning. And I’d
had it about two minutes EOS and you went all moody, and stamped on
it, stamped on it like a little child in front of me, Stamping your
feet over and over again until the easter egg was crushed. Didn’t you?
You can’t rememb- you can’t remember doing it, oh did you blank it EOS
you blank it out, that’s what I tried to do when-, I tried to blank it
out when nasty things happen to you, that’s what you try to do. mm, I
have my ideas why you did it but-. I don’t think that was the reason.
I think it’s just about your wiring, isn’t it? Well my dad’s not
**anon** is he? That’s if they are my parents. I always had the
feeling I was adopted because there was- I took so much abuse when I
was a child. I always felt there was something different about me. As
if I’d been abused, not abused but as if I’d been- I’d come from EOS I
know but it wasn’t like that when I was a kid. They used to- they used
to say I had a big head, yeah. What does ‘’ mean? What, me brother
told that mey head used to go ‘?’ EOS But if it was windy, what if it
wasn’t windy? He’s English, from Salford. From dirty Salford to the
suburbs of **anon**. Is that where he got the idea of a second
bathroom from? From living in **anon**? How did he move from **anon**
to **anon** then? To the slums of **anon**? It was a slum, that was
why you moved cos they pulled it down. Well they put Asians in them
didn’t they? That’s what they did, yeah. Immigrants. How do you play-
how do you play cricket without ca- being able to catch a ball? But
you couldn’t on holiday. Well you couldn’t! You couldn’t catch-. It
was fantastic. But that was the thing, catch the ball EOS Shall we
move on now, do you want to move on? Do you want to move on? School
days, go to school days! You had nice catholic schools, didn’t you?
That must’ve been nice. Bet the n- nuns were nice, weren’t they? I
wouldn’t mention any names Janice **anon**, but- I was only kidding
her. It wasn’t me first scho- they didn’t put me straight to grammar
EOS I had to- I had to do infants and juniors first. You got bullied
at school, didn’t you? Is that why you used to- is that why you used
to go home and bully EOS I didn’t bully anybody EOS I didn’t bully I
was just a bit rougher than the other kids. Didn’t bully them, no I
didn’t bully them. Just everybody- no people just used to have their
place. Mm, top bit of it, yeah. Top ten percent. That’s just the way
school was. Bit like that in EOS Do you remember your first day at
school? I bet you had shiny shoes on, didn’t you? New shiny shoes. I
wish I’d have had one like that. I had a briefcase, it didn’t sound as
nice as that one. What did you used to keep in there? I bet you used
to like dinner didn’t you? Dinnertimes. Did you used to like
dinnertimes? Yeah that’s because you liked dinnertimes, that’s
because- but you loved school dinners didn’t you? Cos you became a
school dinner lady. Yeah we’ll call it-. And you do some cooking as
well. Do you now- do you er- bring back your old favourites? You know,
the stuff that you used to like when you were a kid? Do you now cook
that same stuff for the children that you’re cooking for now? Do you
think the chemicals in the mint custard- Do you think they could
affect children? Where do they get the luminous green colour from?
That must be pretty powerful stuff. Do you think if you ate a spoonful
of that green colouring, do you think you’d turn green? What about
your skin tone though? Do you think that there’s Martians somewhere
that- I dunno, on some planet outer universe, that are green coloured,
but only light green, that they might take this green food colouring
to tan them up. Do you think there’d be same type of-? Tablets for
martians? So like you’d be like a light green martian but you’re
thinking, ‘I want to look like I’ve been on my holidays, so I’ll take
a little mouthful of Janice’s **anon** special green food colouring
and that’ll green me up.’ EOS What was your favourite school meal?
Yeah what did you used to look for? You’re in the queue-. Obviously
you’re probably bullying a little kid in front of you. Chinese burns,
cow bite. I can’t remember to be honest. It was all pretty bad EOS but
we always used to go back for seconds. You were always quite happy
when you was- you were last in the last year to go up. Cos you used to
get seconds, yeah. But I can’t particularly remember anything in
particular. They were big wasn’t they? Not as big as a wagon wheel.
Used to have them at break times. I never had one. I used to sp- No, I
used to spend my money on cigarettes. Well that’s what you did, start
smoking at eight. I don’t know what you’re laughing at. That’s when
kids started smoking then. Pinch them off your mum. Pinch money out of
your mum’s purse. Cos I didn’t do any jobs for her, she was never
gonna give me spends, So I used to pinch money out of my mum’s purse.
And we’d all go- we’d all go home after school and pinch money from
your mum, then club it all together and get five Kensington’s club. Oh
yeah. Or Park Drive or whatever you could get in fives. And then have
one each. More like a penny, probably. In old money. I wasn’t really-
it was normal we were just normal kids. Never got in trouble cos we
didn’t get caught. Er there’s a lot more er dogs knocking about. Er
British School of Motoring? The- the- the-. I don’t think that had
anything to do with it. I am sure yeah. No white dog poo went long
before then. I think they just put- stopped putting calcium in the dog
food. Don’t know what reason. Did you have a favourite teacher at
school? I know you got the nasty ones, the nuns. Little mob of your
nuns that used to terrorise you all, but did you have a nice teacher?
Was that your favourite sweet, because you look like a bit of a curly
wurly girl to me. I knew you did I could just tell by looking at you.
I remember sweets as a kid, I remember my friends giving me sweets, my
younger brother and two of his-. And two of his friends and two other
friends, best friends, they- the- **anon** and **anon** and- No they
just give me some sweets one day. And as I was half way through eating
them, they told me that they were- that they actually found them. Or
they’d got them from a girl called **anon** who was like the dirtiest,
horriblest girl in the whole wide world. And they said they’d got the
sweets from her. And I was halfway through eating them. And I had to
spit them out and be sick. She was that bad, we d- we perceived her to
be that bad. And my friends gave me sweets from her. And laughed as I
was eating EOS No I just thought they were being kind. But they
weren’t and it made me cry. Yep cos it was that bad. I dunno, ten or
summat like that. Eight. Used to have that effect that’s the effect
she used to have. Scruffy, Because she was scruffy and horrible EOS
Yeah smelly horrible dirty, yeah EOS Nobody would ever sit next to her
in class. Yeah cos she’s smelly and horrible and. **anon** I think. It
wasn’t you, was it? No she’s living in the next street. I didn’t like
sweets after that. Yeah put me off for life. It’s not that- it’s not
that nice really. Yeah it’s Leek. You don’t see many old people in- in
Stretford any more, or **anon**. Is it because they’ve all died? Are
we the old people now? Cos what what used to be the- the OAP home
became the young EOS And that was a bit shit. Then they knocked the
church down. And made that social housing. Filled it full of black
people. That was a bit shit. then they knocked down **anon**. and took
all the rubbish from there and moved that into my community. And
that’s a bit shit. Then the pub we go in. That used to be full of
people. And that’s a bit shit. Yeah black lads on mountain bikes
outside. That’s a bit rubbish yeah. Did she leave her purse out? How
did you manage to smuggle that out? Is that what you t- is that what
you told your mum? Then one day there was one missing. And I bet
**anon** was old and she didn’t know whether she’d give it you or not,
did she? You used to push her around you say? I do remember the nice
rose- they used to have- yeah tendered rose EOS Both there and in the
er- the council housing that was across the EOS Four storey high
council flats. All very pretty, all w- all well tended. Don’t have
flower beds anymore.yeah cos I was going to say one of the other bits of the interview is
just about, kind of what you do for a living and stuff so EOS right
that is okay so just feel free to- chat away when you- well tell us
about erm where you live, I mean you can- you can talk to me kind of
thing while I’m doing it EOS you don't- but I’m not allowed to start
you know speak back to you kind of thing but tell- you know tell us
about that first if you want, oh my God EOS sounds like it EOS no,
that’s fine EOS there’s only about two minutes left okay EOS cool,
that’s great for that bit, that’s fantasticwell not a lot at the moment EOS er the crazy thing is, is if you
weren't here we'd be chatting away like anything it's yeah EOS well
where I live’s in the er- the regeneration area, because they’re
ripping Salford apart at the moment so erm by two-thousand eleven
where I live will be gone EOS er which is a- a multi-story block which
is er w- I should think will be all the better for it EOS you know it
will be completely gone EOS yeah it's to save money EOS yeah, well
it’s just counc- yeah council slums EOS revamped council slum EOS yeah
I did EOS very hard labour EOS that went ages ago that’s a block of
flats now yeah EOS yeah they did erm- when I was a kid there was a
group called the Spinners, and er there’s a song called Dirty Old Town
that’s about EOS and they actually sang it and got filmed on the
bridge that was over the road when we were at school EOS yeah, yeah
the school was on one side and the playground was on the other and
there was a bridge over the road EOS yeah and they- they actually
recorded it and did a video on the ‘Dirty Old Town’, you’ll want to
look that up if you’re thinking about Salford that song EOS it’s about
all the gas works and all that, that like it was when I was a kid EOS
yeah, yeah **anon** in the old **anon** yeah EOS put in a drawer and
shoved under the table EOS no it’s completely- I mean it- it’s
absolutely completely different now I mean, it- it’s like when you and
**anon** were little wasn't so very different but I think computers
have made a huge difference to the kids EOS I mean cos **anon** now at
thirteen I mean EOS yeah that’s really so- that’s all- everything else
is just boring isn't it you know EOS and er he is- he’s sheltered as
well because he’s- he’s the only child with his mum EOS mm and er EOS
and his nana when he comes staying up here, she only ever had two EOS
she’s scared of anything that a boy would do isn't she- she can EOS
‘oh you can't do that’ EOS ‘come and dress you doll in front of the
Xbox’ EOS yeah, yeah and then I go up with a gun EOS well I- I try- I
try to introduce him to things that EOS you do outside the house the
kind of things I did when I was a kid EOS you know like, catapults you
know EOS and then the air rifle and what have you, you know and- and
just try- just trying to get him outside the house is a struggle
because it’s- it’s like- it was like when we went to that scooter do
last week, wasn't it? we were there I mean the vintage scooters and-
and it was really good cos these are like me cousin runs this **anon**
scooter club EOS what thirteen year old lad isn't going to want to sit
on a motorbike you know but, no ‘I’m bored, can I go’ EOS yeah,
blinkered completely yeah EOS yeah only when I told him that the
boredom bit won’t work today that EOS it’s a nice day we’re having a-
a, you know just- just relax you know and having a drink and sitting
on the grass and you know enjoying the EOS so sit down and enjoy it
EOS well, you had a den EOS yeah, well we li- we lived- it was right
in **anon** wasn't it and EOS and all the grass verge over the side
where the bushes were and you and **anon** were only toddlers and you
had a den in there with the other kids and- yeah, it’s like that- that
motorbike I got for **anon** that time and EOS yeah well it wasn't it
was a- it was a- what’s it- wasn't it- it was a child's bike- a dirt
bike for when he was six years old EOS and er he kept jumping off in
it and letting it go on its own EOS ‘dad, I’m scared’ EOS and let the
bike go EOS remember them water pistols EOS yeah, and- Super Soakers
he had like yeah, two tanks on his back and he was that little the
weight of the water used to pull him over EOS I was on the doorstep
and the- the- the whatsit the er bus stop was on the other side and
all the people waiting at the bus stop EOS and we were able to fire it
and we were able to soak them from our doorstep and they did not know
where it was coming from, yeah, yeah EOS great example as a father EOS
yeah, yeah ‘g- just- just get the old lady there with the bag’ EOS you
were- you were bloody worse but EOS yeah he- he- he was on the roof
getting his toys back in EOS well, he’s a boy EOS that- that’s what
boys are like isn't it EOS yeah, right, like pushing him down the
stairs in EOS in- in his little- what was it called that little EOS
tyke- little car was it EOS he probably did but you still pushed him
gr- you know happily EOS yeah had the- the big s- sponge hand yeah EOS
and the big sponge hand wasn't it yeah EOS oh I don’t know EOS which
he still does not forgive you for and he’s twenty-one EOS yeah, yeah
he’s at- he’s at erm Center Parcs isn’t he, this weekend with his
mates yeah EOS well you- you don’t know do you EOS I mean I- you see a
car with him and you say ‘do you- do you- do you like that?’, ‘it’s
alright’ EOS you know, I- I don’t know whether it’s just that- that
thirteen year old grunting stage that he’s at you know that- yeah
Guitar Hero EOS yeah well I- I can't see the point of it EOS yeah,
well he has- he has a guitar at home and I don’t know, and apparently
I mean I’ve- I’ve heard him once but, he’s er, not too happy about
letting me know about it that he- he plays the keyboard as well but he
doesn’t read music, he just picks it up by ear EOS erm but I can’t see
the point of this- this Guitar Hero if you can’t actually make a tune
yourself EOS you might as well just spend that time learning to play
the guitar EOS you know instead of playing somebody else's tracks by
pushing buttons EOS you’re not- you-re not learning anything EOS yeah
you’re just learning a sequence EOS but the sequence does not relate
to a real guitar so it’s not EOS it’s pointless it’s- I bet it sounds
awful, I bet it’s worse than karaoke EOS yeah, at least karaoke’s
acceptable because you’re mainly drunk EOS you know so that’s EOS
that’s alright, you know but when you’re sober and you hear EOS
screeching at the top of their voice you know I- oh yeah, yeah EOS oh
I know, and that- that EOS oh, all I remember is that one that kept
getting all bloody Elvis songs and thought he was fantastic and he was
terrible EOS he didn’t even drink but he had a list of Elvis songs
that he wanted EOS ah never seen anything like that EOS I don’t know,
I can’t remember no EOS I’m getting old you know, I’m getting senile
and EOS I’m losing it, me memory goes EOS hey you made me get up and
you bloody filmed it EOS now there’s nothing- I don’t mind making a
fool of myself but what I hate about mobile- mobile phones is that now
you can make a fool of yourself and you have to watch it tomorrow EOS
you know I mean when- when I was younger you made a fool of yourself
when you got drunk, and you just walked sheepishly into the room the
next day and you know and- and hoped that nobody was going to say
anything now you walk in EOS ‘look at you, you prat’ EOS wasn’t it
that lad- didn’t that lad film it? no he- he actually he came in and
he sang that song didn't he, he came in and he sang that song and I- I
was at the bar and I was talking to him when he came over EOS and I
says ‘when I used to live out here’ EOS I said ‘they had a- they had a
term, for your kind of singing’ EOS I said ‘it’s not shite, it’s worse
than shite’ EOS and he’s looked at me and then he came over and bought
us a EOS yeah ‘Leaving on a Jet Plane’ EOS yeah but then by half past
ten all the pensioners have gone up haven't they went EOS one rum and
black and you know then mm EOS but no I- I that was good I enjoyed
that holiday EOS I remember the first holiday we took you on, God you
were a nightmare EOS no it was Menorca, and you were just- cos we went
on a- we went on a last minute deal because you would have been- I
took because I never used to take me holiday well in- when I used to
take me holidays from work I used to always drive your mum crazy
because I used to say er, ‘oh, we won’t go away this week cos we’re-
this year’ because we were doing the house up, and EOS and then I used
to be that fed up that when the holidays come like three days before
the holidays I’d go and book something EOS and you know what your
mum’s like, she likes to pack three months EOS so it, yeah it used- it
used to be a nightmare she used to have a list of the lists yeah EOS
and it used to be a nightmare because she’d be panicking like anything
because she had to try and get everything EOS and she was five months
pregnant at the time with **anon** when we took EOS and you were- what
were you- you were just under two, and for some reason everything was
a post office, and I had to- I mean your mum had a great holiday she
was laying around for two weeks getting the sun I was running around
after you for two weeks constantly EOS walking all around the walls,
all around the pools EOS and you were great and there was a little
slide into the kiddies' pool and I think it was all great EOS and you
were sliding down it and you were loving it until you went EOS until
your head got wet EOS that was it then you didn't want, ‘I want to go
home, you’ve gotta take me home’ EOS that was Majorca that. he
wouldn't go in the water would he? he was only about two wasn't he? he
EOS I remember when we took you- yeah, we went to that other one at
Majorca when you was in the kiddie EOS yeah, what was her name? Was it
**anon**? you've still got the certificate haven't you? yeah, from
when you was in the Wizzy Club and you was only what, and you had your
one favourite book with you. do you not remember it? yeah, you must
remember it, one book you wanted to take. no, no, no. the Pied Piper.
and you knew every single word of the book. this little lady bird book
and you knew every single word of the book and you used to have that-
that story time at the end of the night for the kids at about six
o'clock, and she came up to me this **anon** cos you'd taken your
book, and you was only about three and she came up to me and she says
‘can Natalie **anon** read?’, so I said ‘no, no, she EOS she says ‘
but she's sat there with the book. She’s turning the pages at exactly
the right time’ EOS I said ‘that's her absolute favourite book’ I said
‘that's the only book she wanted to bring with her’ EOS I said ‘she
knows every single line in that book. Every single word’ and I said
‘the bad part about that is, is when I have to read it to her every
night before she goes to sleep, I can't skip a page’ EOS ‘cos she’ll
say, ‘well you’ve missed a bit there, you know, that's not next that
dad’.’ you know EOS no he w- you weren't. No, what it was it w- it was
the last day, it- it was the last day we were there and we're all
packed ready to go EOS and then she says that she's having a fancy
dress for the kids. I thought ‘oh God, what- what are we going to do
on the last day?’ cos everything’s packed, and you know what your
mum’s like, she'd listed everything again so EOS you know and the list
was in the s- you can't take anything out, no, no if you get dirty
you've got to stay dirty because I’ve got me list in the case. you
know EOS so you were there, I mean, you were only what?, so high and
curly dark hair and really dark skin because of the- the- the Maltese
in you EOS and er, I thought ‘what are we going to do with her?’ I
thought ‘we'll make her into a hula girl’ EOS and that- so I went out
and I ripped all the- the- the palms off the trees strung them all
together and made you a little grass skirt. put a- a flower on each
side of your head, and that was it, just a skirt and a flower on each
side of your head and your knickers. and when you went- when you went
to it and she asked you what you were you said you was a tree. yeah
you did, you won it, yeah, but you said you was a tree. she says ‘what
have you come as Natalie **anon**?’, ‘a tree.’ EOS and that little
girl that you met. yeah, they were Geordies yeah and- and the accent
EOS her name was **anon** EOS and I said to you, ‘no, it’s **anon**’,
and you got really angry, ‘no, her name’s **anon**!’ you know, and-
she said, ‘her name’s **anon**’, I said, ‘Natalie **anon**, that’s
just the way they speak’, ‘no! **anon** her name’ EOS and you kept
calling her ‘**anon**’ EOS yeah, but you wrote to her for a while,
didn’t you? Th- that girl afterwards, didn’t you? but that- but you
wouldn’t go anywhere without that book EOS you really- and then EOS
no, **anon** wasn’t a reader EOS wrestling, he’s into- now he’s a- now
he’s a petrol head, isn’t he? he loves his car now, but he was- he
always loved Maths **anon**, didn’t he, ? has he asked you for this
one yet? I remember that time he had- was going to his parents evening
and they- was it the History teacher or something had- had pulled a
fist at him or something, he was messing about in class not remember
EOS and he said to me- i- it wasn’t long before he left, and- and he
said to me before we went, before me and your Mum went, and he said
erm, ‘will you have a word with the history teacher Dad’, so I said,
‘yeah, why? What’s wrong?’, ‘it’s only he pulled a fa- erm, he pulled
a fist at me in class’, I says, ‘why? What were you doing?’ he says,
‘oh, we was only messing about’ EOS so I said, ‘you’re lucky,’ I said,
‘cos when I was at school, they wouldn’t have pulled a fist at you,
they’d have used it’ EOS you know, you’d have got a board duster on
your head or a piece of chalk straight between the eyes EOS you know,
but- and- and when I went up to the school and saw the History
teacher, I said, ‘I believe you’ve had a bit of trouble with **anon**’
he says, ‘oh yeah,’ he said, ‘i- it was nothing really’ he said, ‘I
got a bit frustrated’, I says, ‘well listen,’ I says, ‘you’ve got my
backing,’ I said, ‘if he’s out of hand’, I said, ‘if it was up EOS
‘you could take him out and cane him, the way I had when I was at EOS
you know, cos it never did me any harm EOS and all of this molly-
coddling EOS but, I remember being at school, I was what, must’ve been
twelve years old, so it would’ve been the first year in **anon** EOS
and- and- like, you- you’re just kids messing around in the school EOS
and the headmaster, I mean I was only- only just average sized kid,
you know, just spun me round and slapped me full in the face, in front
EOS ‘stop messing around!’, and you’re just left there, ringing EOS
you know, and it’s just, ‘what’s happened?’, no, but you don’t go home
and tell your Mum or Dad that it’s happened because you’d get another
one, you know EOS ‘you should behave’ EOS well we had that- that one
teacher and erm, we used to have to give school fund every week, used
to have to g- I think it was five pence or something like that EOS and
it was supposed to- with it being a catholic school it was supposed to
be- oh God, they always did that, we always got them silly boxes we
used to have to make up and take EOS you know, and sisters- yeah EOS
yeah, sisters of the poor and sisters of the dead and EOS all of that
like sisters of everything EOS and any saints day, anything to get any
money off you EOS yeah, cash based religion EOS Catholicism, you know
EOS erm I can’t remember what I was saying now EOS oh that teacher,
yeah and he- and he was our- our sports teacher and this- this is how
things have changed, now this- this teacher would’ve got arrested
these days for what he used to do to us, I mean, you’re like twelve,
thirteen years old, and you’re going through that puberty stage, yeah,
and- and when you come out of gym nobody- nobody wants to- you’ve
gotta go for a shower, but nobody wants to strip off EOS you know, and
he used to make everybody strip off, nobody could go in in the shorts
or anything like that like everybody tried to do, but he’d- he’d come
in the shower himself, with a wet towel, and he’d be hitting you with
the towel and EOS honestly, he’d be hitting you with the towel, but
then, talk about a bit on the pervy side really, the- you know the
foot shower EOS he’d- each week he’d choose one kid to wash his feet
honestly EOS you know, and this- this was a Catholic school and this
was our gym EOS but the- the- the same guy was erm, our form teacher
for one year, and if you didn’t bring in school fund or if you got in
trouble in his EOS he had a dice and he’d roll the dice EOS and
whatever it landed on, that was how many canes you got EOS and if it
landed on six you got a chance to roll it again EOS yeah, you
definitely got some but it was- but if six came up again, you got a
six EOS shout at somebody EOS dead tight pants and a camel toe EOS
yeah, ‘when I was a lad’ EOS ‘when I was a lad’ so EOS oh, well the-
there was no P-C when I was at school w- when- w- started at school,
remember I told you that, when I slipped off that corrugated steel EOS
I’d ripped all the skin off me fingers, and I went into school the
next day, with plasters all over me hands EOS and the k- the teacher
caned me on the same hand EOS now that was- I was about- I was
probably about nine or ten when that EOS you know, and- and- and they
were wicked, and we used to have this- this one teacher, **anon** you
know the three foot ruler they used to use on the- on the board EOS
that was used for whacking you on the head with EOS and we had- we had
another one, **anon**, and he had a whip and he had- it had a wooden
handle, about so big, yeah, and then it was like- it was like a belt
about, such a length, there, and he used to hit you with that and it
used to wrap round your hand and come back EOS and flick you, it was-
he was a nasty piece of work him EOS and then this- this guy called
**anon** he- he was erm, he was really nice, this- I was probably
about eight years old, and he’d erm, he’d been caught in the erm, the
retreat from Dunkirk EOS erm, and he’d been on the beaches for like
three or four days waiting to get a boat back home in the Second World
War, and erm, he was shell EOS and- but he was a really- a really,
really nice teacher and dead tolerant and everything, but if you upset
him EOS ah, he used to, and he’d boil, and his face would be red-
yeah, and he’d go really, really crazy, like everything’d come out of
him, you know, but he was- there used to be like about thirty-six kids
in a class EOS yeah, every Friday night, before we went home, or every
Friday afternoon, he’d buy the whole class a bar of chocolate each EOS
he was- he was great, he was really nice, but he used to have this-
like this- this- this bit of erm schizophrenia sort of spate you know,
that he’d- he just- he’d just switch completely EOS and he could be a
l- yeah, could be a little bit scary EOS oh you- she loved you,
because you loved history EOS why cos- cos he pilots trolleys round
tescos does he now EOS oh sh- was she the one that was dead chuffed
cos you had a copy of ‘mein kampf’ yeah EOS and decided Hitler was a
nutter EOS and put it away EOS yeah, cos what- that lad used to say,
‘beam me up swotty’ didn’t he, did you ever keep any animals in the
class at school, did you ever? oh, we- we had- we had a hamster when I
was in primary school, we had budgies, and we had two rabbits, but we
used to- we used to use the rabbits as an excuse to get out of class
EOS and they used to stink in the back of the classroom, because they-
they were basically belonged to me and this other lad, they kept the
hutch at the side of where we were EOS and rabbits, ah EOS God, they
smell something awful EOS and these never used to get cleaned out, we
used to take them for a walk in the yard so we could get out of
lessons EOS we had a big yard, when we had this hamster, there was
this lad in our class called **anon**, we used to call him **anon**,
and he was EOS you know, these big and daft kids EOS he was a real one
of these big and daft kids, and the hamster got out EOS and I said,
‘hey **anon**, it’s there, behind you’, and he stands back, and he
crunches its head under its foot EOS and this hamsters like EOS yeah ,
yeah, its teeth had gone through its- you know they have them big
teeth EOS and its teeth had gone through the bottom jaw bit yeah, so
we- we took it out and a- asked the teacher if we could go and bury
it, so we took it out and buried it while it was still alive EOS it
wa- it just wasn’t quite dead, you know EOS yeah, well, I don’t know,
but it was starting to rain so we thought we’d better get on with it
EOS you’ve got to bury it EOS well, when we had- when we had the
budgie we used to- cos we used to get them to stay in at dinner time,
cos there was always a reason with us for having a pet in the class,
it was either EOS to get out of the class or to get in the class when
the teachers weren’t there, and the budgie, we used to be able to get
in straight after dinner because, ‘let the budgie out for a bit of
exercise while the other kids all-’ EOS no, they don’t, well we had-
we had budgies, we kept budgies when you was a kid M; you know, all
they did was eat the picture frames, weren’t they, budgies and
cockatiels, you know EOS but erm, the classrooms when I was a kid,
they were huge, the EOS with really high ceilings and you couldn’t
catch this bloody budgie, cos the- the teacher used to have to have
one of these- these poles for opening the top windows the- you know-
and erm, we couldn’t catch this budgie so we used to squirt it with
water pistols until it got soaked and it couldn’t fly EOS and then-
then throw and old curtain over it and wrap it up in a curtain and
stick it back in the cage EOS it was really well looked after, you
know EOS one of- one of the cleaners took it home in the end before it
just fell off the perch EOS **anon**, the white one, yeah EOS it was
looking for lice EOS was it rabbits you had? And you called yours the
traditional **anon** EOS and **anon** called his **anon** EOS
**anon**, and **anon** EOS trying to catch it, yeah EOS think the dogs
are getting a bit restless aren’t they, they’re at the EOS well I used
to- I used to collect like frogs and newts and what have you when I
was a k- cos it- that was the kind of things we did, we’d- go up to, I
mean they call it ‘Black Harry’ up here now, don’t they, but we used
to call it dead railway at the side of **anon** golf club EOS there’s-
there’s three lakes there EOS that, at the time, we called them the
three sisters, and there was a stream that was part of the old railway
that had been taken up years ago that- that used to run up the side of
it EOS we used to get all the frogs and newts there, well I had erm, a
demi jar, and it was about a- a gallon sized demi jar, you know, with
really thick glass EOS and we lived on the flats over here in Salford,
and then I had, all I was great at keeping pairs, believe me, we had-
had all of these frogs in it, or newts which it was, but, they were on
the veranda, in the sun, in this jar, and they had no air getting out
for water, and they boiled EOS because the water was come- because the
sun was coming through this jar, and there was only like that much
water in it, you know EOS and they boiled alive in it EOS and I’ll
come back and they’re all upside down, dead EOS oh yeah, she didn’t
like anything like that, no EOS we used to walk, yeah, or bikes, not
like you lot, you know EOS ‘where’s the car?’ you know EOS no, we used
to walk EOS we we- we didn’t have any bloody money, we were- you know,
we were EOS we didn’t have a- you wanted to go somewhere, you walked
EOS I mean we used to go on an expedition to **anon** EOS you know,
we- we’d go, we- we were all kids EOS yeah, yeah we were all kids and-
and we’d have these Second World War water canteens EOS and- and- and
we’d be going on our adventures, we- we were going to, you know, we
were off to fight the Second World War on the woods, you EOS cos
that’s what we got brought up on, it’s- I mean, we used- yeah EOS I
mean we were, I mean the kids now, the- they’re nothing to what we EOS
we were absolute little sods EOS I mean we used to have full scale
battles for bonfire wood EOS would, cos every- cos what- when we were
kids, where we lived, there was loads of crofts all over the place,
and that was cos we were so close to the docks during the war EOS
these are all bombsites, so you’d have a- a row of terraced houses,
and four or five houses in the middle’d be missing, and there’s just
be a croft EOS where a bomb had just hit that and the rest of the
street was okay EOS and these were all over the place, and wherever
there was one of these, the kids in that area, that was their bonfire
spot EOS so we used to have raids and raid the others EOS and nick
there wood but when I- I say raids, it wasn’t just all like, charging
and shouting and what have you, we’re lobbing bricks at one another,
throwing bricks, and we used to have bin lids as shields EOS honestly,
cos I had my head split open three times EOS and- and in them days, I
mean i- if a kid gets his head split open now, it’s off to the
hospital and EOS have a cat scan and, whatever else, you know EOS no,
know what I mean? your Nanna’d just look at it, you know, bathe it,
‘oh, you’re alright, go on’ EOS yeah, yeah, so I probably had me
brains mashed at some time or other and it was just EOS just part of
growing up EOS no, that we’d- we’d- we’d played on the demolition as
kids EOS when they were pulling all the old terraced houses down, now
if they’re bringing any- if they’re pulling anything down, there’s a
bloody big secure fence around it and the kids can’t go in EOS yeah,
well we used to be walking cos they’d- they’d strip all- all the wood
out of them, they’d strip all the- the floorboards out of them, and
just leave the joists EOS and we’d be upstairs, maybe two, three
stories high, walking along these joists with nothing- and- and that
was just part of it, that was- part of what we did, that was part of
growing up EOS you know, but we were- I mean what the kids do these
days was nothing- and I mean all this asbo rubbish, and all that lot,
we would’ve been getting them all the time EOS we were absolute little
swines we were EOS well what I- I don’t think EOS we weren’t naughty
so much as we never caused any trouble at home, you never caused- y-
you basically, you didn’t shit on your own doorstep EOS for want of a
better description, you didn’t erm, but there was- yeah, there was
always a group of us, and that’s all we had to play EOS you know, I
mean, the- I remember there being a batman craze when I was about
what, probably about six or seven, it was- it was the original batman
series where it was all ‘kapow’ and ‘kazam’ and all this lot and-
‘Batman and Robin, the boy wonder’, you know, and erm, we were mad on
EOS so the whole estate, you’d have like, sixty, seventy kids, all
with a lone ranger mask, cos that’s all we could afford for a couple
of pence from the paper shop, and a curtain tied round you EOS you
know, as your cloak y- your batarang, or was it the bat rope, no the
bat rope was a coat hanger on a piece of string EOS and yo- you’d be
throwing it over walls and trying to walk up the wall like batman did
EOS like that, you know and that’s what we had EOS not having none of
that, o EOS no, we had none of that, we had a- we didn’t even have the
right mask, it was the lone ranger mask EOS you know, and that- that-
that’s what we had EOS yeah, yeah, and everybody’d be running round
going ‘batman, de, de, de, de, de, de, de, de, de’ EOS do you mind if
I smoke? you got ashtray Natalie **anon**? well, when yous- when yous
were kids I had the shop so you used to- you used to get everything
you wanted, didn’t you, you’d- you’d come down for Halloween EOS and
it’d be, you’d just choose from what was there EOS and get everything,
and then your Mum’d take you trick or treating or EOS they called it
to EOS you remember them girls when we had the shop, or were you too
young to remember that, who, you kept coming in the shop during that
holiday and, ‘can I have a bottle of lemonade, can I have a bottle
of-’ EOS ‘lucozade, can I have a bag of crisps, can I have some
sweets’, and I was saying to your Mum, I was saying, ‘what’s- what’s
going on with Natalie **anon** here, she- she’s eating an awful lot of
stuff, she’s not normally like this’, and that- that older girl was
sending you in EOS saying, ‘go and get this off your Dad, and go and
get that off your EOS and there’s a lay by isn’t there, yeah EOS and
fluff out your pockets, and- yeah EOS but I remember that girl though,
cos I- her Nanna was a real good customer in the shop EOS and when I-
I told her Nanna about it, cos I came round and I- these girls were
sending you into the shop, and her Nanna- her Nanna had a walking
stick EOS and she battered her all the way home with this walking
stick EOS because she’d been doing that sending you into the shop EOS
God, that was rough down there wasn’t it? Where that shop was, that
was really rough, yeah EOS no, no Beirut EOS like they did with
Ordsall, yeah EOS erm, if- if you go down **anon**, then you go down
**anon**, it’s all nice new buildings all the way down both of them-
and Beirut in the middle EOS you know, so people buy in it, don’t they
EOS even though what’s behind them EOS ‘media city’ or something
they’re calling it aren’t they, yeah EOS The Lowry? That was the docks
EOS that was, I mean, when I was a kid, I mean, all the big ships used
to come up there, and- and the Trafford swing bridge, that used to
turn quite often, cos when we used to go to the matches, go watching
EOS quite often you’d be waiting to cross over while the bridge turned
and a big ship went through EOS cos the ships come up from just past
the Mersey were they started digging the ship canal, right into
Salford docks EOS cos Trafford park was one of the biggest industrial
areas in Europe EOS but there’s nothing there now EOS and apartments
that are empty EOS but yous didn’t- yous didn’t get up to half the
things, did I- I told you about that time we were riding on top of the
lifts didn’t I? yeah the caretaker on that block of flats, me and my
mate EOS yeah, the controls were on the top of the lift and people
were able to get into the life and push the button EOS and then we
were able to override it on the top, so they’d push seven, and we’d
take them to two EOS and then, ‘what the bloody hells wrong with this
lift’, and they’d push seven again and we’d take them to the ground
floor EOS I can’t understand why they have that EOS I can’t understand
why they have that, ‘doors closing’ I mean, cos if you’re blind you
can hear it, if you’re deaf you can see it, and if you’ve got all your
faculties you know the bloody doors are shutting don’t you EOS so I-
‘doors are closing’ EOS ‘doors are closing’, I was telling **anon**
about when they were refurbishing erm, Victoria station in Manchester
EOS did I ever tell you about the- the row of erm, portable toilets
that they put in there, never tell you about that? when we were kids,
I was about thirteen, fourteen, and we went up there, and they’re re-
redoing all the- and the- they’d closed the toilets down and they’d
put this row of portable toilets in well we found out you could go
round the back of them, and you could flush them from the back EOS so
we used to wait until people went into the toilet, got comfortable,
and then flush it on them EOS ‘what the hell’s that’ you know EOS but
we were behind and they didn’t- they- they didn’t know that you could
get behind them people, and then they’d go out and they’d be soaking
and what have you, somebody else’d come in, flush it again on them,
you know EOS we had a great afternoonyeah just yeah just normally yeah EOS yeah although some of them
they’re doing up now EOS aren't they them ones that EOS yeah
advertising them as absolutely super-duper gorgeous apartments aren't
they EOS it's just like right behind Salford precinct EOS yeah,
because I’ve just moved like back into like sort of ‘Salford’ Salford,
cos I was in **anon** erm, and then before that I was- I was in
**anon** with me mum so probably not far from where you are near
**anon**, erm and before that I used to live, like down at the bottom,
didn’t I? in like the proper old terraces, like I had one of them, erm
and we sort of did all that up and then, just relationship came to an
end and I moved back with me mum but did a lot of work on that house
really EOS you did yeah , I was the painter EOS and they did all the
hard labour EOS or rather you did EOS yeah, this one’s getting there
now isn't it- your school’s gone now thought hasn’t it, that- cos your
school used to be there EOS cos you used to go over the bridge to the
playground or something EOS god so what is that- see and I was born at
**anon** hospital you was born at home though, weren’t you? yeah, it’s
just that- that’s me half brother, it’s just Xbox, Xbox, Xbox twenty-
four seven EOS and they live down in **anon** don't they EOS cos she
moved for work so, yeah boys do yeah EOS yeah, I think that’s why she
had that rag-doll sat on the sofa EOS in the hope that he’d get into
that EOS er it is- even I notice it now though like from when I was
little like just speaking to **anon** now he’s getting to like
thirteen it’s EOS it is difficult to talk to kids now isn't it? it’s-
unless you know about computers and you’re- you’re into like the games
and everything it’s like, my boyfriend **anon** he’s like into
computers but he’s Playstation three, and me brother’s Xbox and it’s
like, you know they’re totally different things both thinks one’s
better than the other and EOS it’s just- it’s crazy isn't it, they
just like- you’ll sit there and it’s like- just like playing like with
a console isn't it just thumbs and staring at the TV and EOS nothing
else- they could be EOS and we were thinking ‘oh proper little lads
thing’ you know, ‘bikes, he’ll love it’ or EOS he was like getting up
and going for like crisps or a coke or EOS just to get up and do
something like walking past all these lovely EOS to the burger van at
the end yeah mind you he was- he was getting a bit better towards the
end weren't he but EOS yeah, mm, yeah it is but- that’s what it is,
it’s like when- when we were little we used to play outside for hours
EOS and like it’d be dark, yeah and we had a den but me mum would be
shouting us in, you know to come in but now you can't kick them out
EOS yeah, in the trees yeah EOS yeah, right in front of the EOS the
dual carriage way EOS yeah like that quad bike thing EOS he used to
run off around the field EOS it had like a big tank on his strapped to
his back yeah EOS yeah you could catch them from behind yeah, through
the trees and over the top EOS used to go far that EOS yeah yeah ‘move
it a bit to the left son, bit to the left’ EOS and then he used to- he
was- he was a little terror I mean I was EOS but- but he w- well like
no cos everyone’s always like ‘oh, you were terrible, you were
terrible’, **anon** let himself out onto the flat roof and stuff
didn't he EOS he was a bit more dangerous EOS mine was all centred
around jealousy EOS oh was it a ty- the little car- the red car with
the yellow roof EOS yeah he had one of them I still maintain he asked
me to push him EOS yeah and he land- he landed he landed at the bottom
like upside-down giggling EOS but, oh yeah and then he got into the
wrestling didn't he EOS who was I was telling? I think it was **anon**
last week I was telling him, you know when he went and he had- we were
weren't we when he said he had like a Hulk Hogan bandana EOS like,
hit- Brett the Hitman's glasses EOS the big sponge hand, and he had
some of the Ultimate Warriors as well EOS he used- and when we used to
go to Camelot he used to always have the EOS face paint put on EOS you
used to always have to tell him what it was but, yeah and he got that
big sponge finger and then we had an argument and I broke the finger
off it so EOS no, yeah, yeah he still mentions it yeah EOS oh- oh,
yeah, now he’s into his cars it’s a shame he didn’t come to that
scooter thing EOS he would have enjoyed that EOS I think- yeah, we’ll
have to find a car one though cos **anon**- I think **anon** was
saying he’d have been more interested in the cars, cos he was, cos we
were like when we went to the shop beforehand and he said ‘do you want
anything’ he’s like, ‘oh yeah, I’ll have a can of Doctor Pepper’ and I
thought, ‘well, we’re going to get there in a minute and have a drink
anyway but’ so he went in and then he was sat there like dead quiet in
the front and me and **anon** were talking in the back and I thought,
‘better say something’ like you know, so I just said to him ‘so what
have you been up to this week **anon**?’, ‘XBox mainly’ EOS I was like
‘mm, okay’ , ‘any good games?’ EOS yeah oh god I know what ch- that
was hard EOS oh no I d- cos that’s what **anon** said to him he said
‘is there like a free mode, you know where you could like sort of do
your own track?’ and he said ‘no’ so EOS and he just makes stuff up
EOS yeah, well that’s good EOS yeah, that’s it yeah, cos it’s just-
yeah and that- well that’s what **anon** was saying as well cos he
said you’re not really learning the song, are you, even though you are
playing along to that song EOS yeah, it’s like the- you can get like
the drums with it can't you, they have like the headset so you can
sing along to it as well can you imagine that you have to ac- I’ve
watched like **anon** and her- her boyfriend and his mate do it, and
you have to like it- it records your notes so you have to like get-
hit the high note if you don’t you like fail the challenge and- oh no,
he’s not a good singer his mate, her boyfriend won’t even try he just
plays the guitar EOS yeah that’s true EOS oh I- I don’t know EOS yeah,
well there was a couple when we went to Spain there was a few EOS
karaoke singers weren't they, that weren’t drunk that get up EOS and
do the same song every night EOS there was that old guy that used to
sing that song, that- oh god I can’t remember what it was now EOS
‘Don't Close Your Eyes’ or something like that EOS and then what was
the ones that they always used to sing, he used to sing the lad that
owned the bar you know to warm everyone up EOS I can’t remember what
it was now EOS yeah s- g- I got dragged up I hate karaoke I don’t mind
laughing at everyone else, but I hate doing it and you made me get up
EOS and the whole world can see it, yeah the whole world can see it on
EOS no one remembered EOS yeah but I didn’t film it though, I’ve not
got it, it was- oh yeah I did have it EOS but I think I lost it on the
computer EOS yeah that Irish lad yeah EOS cos that- that’s I had to
get up and sing the Greece Megamix with this lad I’d never met EOS
we’d like literally- he’d walked into the bar and I think his granddad
had a place over there or something, and he just sat down cos we were
on the table nearest the door EOS yeah, yeah and then he was sat with
us weren't he for the night and then we had to get up in the end and
sing with him EOS and what was the other one we did, ‘Midnight Train
to Georgia’ was it? Oh no ‘Leaving on a Jet Plane’ EOS cos it- weren't
it like a couple of days before we were going home EOS or something
and we had to get up and sing this song and, I- like it was only me
and me dad that knew it and he didn’t know and he was just like
filling little bits in you know in the back he’d be like EOS like in
the back as we were singing when he didn’t even know the words , it’s
quite funny but EOS but we- it was really late on when we got up
though wasn't it EOS cos when you first get in there it was hammered,
like it was absolutely packed weren't it EOS and when- the people that
really hate the karaoke all get up and leave as that starts yeah EOS
and then you just get left there with like the people that like the
karaoke and the really die-hard drinkers like EOS was that Majorca?
yeah, yeah and make lists about lists yeah EOS in one day EOS where
was we on holiday when we bought **anon** that blow-up boat EOS yeah
he had like this inflatable boat, but he- wouldn't go in the water cos
his legs would go through the holes and into the water, so he wouldn't
go in it so he used to just sit at the side of the pool in this thing
with his trunks and his EOS and never go in the water. yeah, I think
we got a picture of him somewhere sat in it haven't we? yeah, the
Wizzy club when I was a tree. **anon** yeah, I think s- yeah,
somewhere yeah. what was that? won’t have been Thomas the Tank? cos
that was after. oh I don't know. oh God, yeah, the Pied Piper. yeah,
and then we had the fancy dress there didn't we and he did me up like
in this vest EOS and made me a hula skirt didn't you out of palms.
yeah, yeah, so you can't take it out of sequence. did I win? intellig-
you can't have it all. I could read. yeah, there's a language one for
you, was she a Geordie? yeah, and her name was **anon**. but I thought
she was **anon** EOS I thought her name was **anon** EOS I bet they
thought I was taking the mick out of them EOS I think so, yeah EOS I
think so EOS ah, but yeah God, it’s crazy isn’t it, what you remember
EOS but- I don’t- it’s whether- cos when you hear the story, you don’t
know if you remember it or EOS you just think you remember it, you
know, cos someone’s told you EOS cos you’re too little, aren’t you?
But I do remember that book, I remember liking that book mm EOS wait,
I bet- I doubt **anon** had a favourite book EOS cos **anon**- me
brother doesn’t like reading EOS I’ve always had loads and loads of
books, and he’s just into EOS wrestling was his favourite EOS yeah, he
was better at Maths EOS and I was always better at the English and the
History side of everything, the writing, and- but he hates that so
it’s like, if he ever applies for a job it’s like, ‘Natalie **anon**,
can you come and do the big question for me on the application form?’
EOS no, I d- I’ve already done it for him last time, when he applied,
so he’s used the same one EOS you’d have got one, yeah EOS well that’s
it cos they’re too cheeky now aren’t they EOS cos they know they can
get away with it, cos they can’t do anything, but like give them
detention or give them lines or something like that EOS for being
naughty EOS crazy, isn’t it EOS is that like, before they used to do
things like, Saint Joseph’s penny and all that stuff EOS oh, they’ve
always had that EOS fill it they they empty it EOS and give it you
back EOS the tea- you had a teacher EOS so you definitely got them EOS
it was just whether you were gonna get one or five EOS yeah God it’s
ment- now they’d just- cos now you’d just get lines, I was actually
reading something on facebook the other day, all about **anon**, you
know, and about the teachers where people like coming on an
reminiscing and they’re like posting on there and stuff, and there was
one guy **anon**, that used to do the IT, and I thought he was alright
but they all used to take the mickey out of him and he had like a
squeaky voice and he had like this massive big boil on his head EOS
and like, he was just a little bit, you know, a bit sweaty and, just
one of them, and they all used to call him **anon** EOS but he- he
actually got sacked and I think all he actually did was, somebody was
like- yeah, he shouted at someone, and someone was being disruptive
and it was on- I think it was only like the- he was there for the
first year I think I was there, so I would’ve only been like, what,
twelve, and then after the second- the second year he never came back
and from what I- I gather he just like literally, asked someone to
leave and they were messing about and wouldn’t go out, and he just
pushed them outside the door, and that was it, he was gone EOS just
for like, forcefully removing somebody from the class EOS and cos we-
none of us knew like why he’d left and they were all like sort of
talking about it on there and, there used to be this other guy as
well, erm, the D-T teacher, **anon**, and erm, they all used to take
the mickey out of him cos he used to like, wear dead tight pants, and
he used to stand like an action man, but he was only like five foot
four or something EOS yeah, yeah, and they used to call him like- he
used to call all the lads, ‘listen, sonny jim’ EOS like, you know when
he was talking to them, yeah EOS but he- apparently he- they were
saying on there we never- I didn’t know that, but his brother was at-
famous, he was an actor, in some like TV programme, I can’t remember
what he was in now but, he turned into like, a bit of a disgrace like,
his brother, and apparently like he never you know, wanted to talk
about him, and he didn’t really have anything to do with him, or
anything, and it’s- they were like all talking about it on there, so
then there was like **anon**, our DT teacher, he was mental, he used
to like, this **anon** guy, and like he- he’d like deliberately say
people’s names wrong, just to wind them up, so like my n- my mate, her
name was **anon**, and when he used to read the register out, he used
to just read out **anon** EOS like that to her, and she used to go,
‘I’m not answering you, if you don’t use me name properly’, he goes,
‘right, you’re in’ EOS there was some characters but, it’s- they- some
of them were good, but it was more like, sort of the older ones, you
know, the proper old fashioned ones, but like, when they were all new,
they were all like, sort of they’d either be intimidated by the kids
or, they’d just like be super P-C, cos with it being a EOS as well, it
was just, you know, people are all the more eager to complain aren’t
they but EOS cos think, they were a lot smaller when I was at school
EOS yeah, to someone else EOS yeah that’s- that- my favourite teacher
though was **anon**, me History teacher, cos she was great, and cos I-
yeah, oh I know she loved me, yeah, cos I loved history but, there was
that- she was like that though, she’d boil, she’d be dead nice and
like dead chatty and if you loved work and you wanted to work she
loved you, but if you wanted to just like doss about, she didn’t have
any time for you, and there was this lad in my class, **anon**, and he
wanted to be a pilot, and he- he did history just because he wanted to
learn about the planes that were used in the wars, and he’d obviously
didn’t get to learn that much about it at- I don’t think, to what he
was expecting but- yeah, yeah, I think he actually- I think he has got
his pilots license now though, but erm, yeah, and he used to like sit
next to me like in class, I remember I was doing this mock test as it
was coming up to our GCSEs, and sh- she’s stood there and she’s like,
going through all the answers after and everybody’s saying like what
they got, and what they got, and she’s saying what the right answer
is, and then he’s going like down this page and he’s going, ‘I haven’t
got that question’, so she’s going, ‘you must have it **anon**, you
must have it, you’re just not looking at it right’, ‘I haven’t got it,
I haven’t got the next one either’ like that, and she goes, ‘let me
have a look’ like that, so she takes the paper off him, and he’d been
doing a completely different paper to all of us, it had got mixed up
in there and he goes, ‘I wouldn’t mind, but I thought it was a bit
wrong, cos when I looked at Natalie’s **anon** answers in the exam’
EOS ‘they weren’t anything to do with my questions’ EOS and you could
just see- that’s what she was like, she was quite pale, and she had
this big like, mad perm, so her hair was like, out on end, and you
could see the blood, you know, like rising up her face, and he’s
going, ‘there’s gonna be steam coming out of her ears in a minute,
there’s steam coming out of her ears’ and he used to like really wind
her up, and like, you’d be outside the class, and she’d line you all
up to come in and then she’d walk down the line and make sure you were
all in EOS and then she’d let you all go in, like one by one and he’d
be like, behind me in line, going ‘walking the mile’ EOS ‘walking the
green mile’ she was proper like- cos we did all the Nazis and
everything EOS yeah, yeah, yeah, I had it in me school bag, cos me Dad
had leant it me and I’d literally read about four pages, and she saw
it like as I was unpacking stuff EOS and she like picked it up and
she’s stood there in front of the class going, ‘look at this,
Natalie’s **anon** got ‘mein kampf’.’ And I was like, ‘shut up’ EOS
they already think I’m a swot EOS yeah, yeah, in first year, yeah EOS
‘beam me up swotty’ yeah EOS but he- she was that enthusiastic about
Hitler and all the Nazis and everything, just- not about what they
did, obviously, but just about teaching about it, and it was the bit
she was obviously really interested in, he’s- this lad, **anon**, used
to call her, **anon** EOS cos she was just so into it, I remember we
went on this trip to London, and we’d had to have like this essay in
about something to do with the Nazis before we went, and he’d not done
it, and she’d give him like and extension, to give it to her before we
went on this trip, and he’d still not give it to her and we were sat
at the back of the coach on the way there and he goes, did- I said,
‘did you give her that essay?’, so he goes, ‘did I heck, no I didn’t
get it in, I just avoided her all day today ‘til we were leaving’, so
I went, ‘oh right’, and we were having a laugh about it, and I said,
‘she won’t let you get away with it you know’, he’s like, ‘I know,
we’ll be there on the London Eye and she’ll be like, climbing up the
side of it with the essay in her mouth’ EOS and he was like, one of
those, they sat there at the back, you know, drinking vodka out of a
cap like, have it in a seven up bottle or something EOS crazy it’s
always like- h- erm, not at high school, we didn’t, no, at primary
school we did, we had hamsters erm, and stick insects EOS oh, we had
fish as well EOS they smell, yeah EOS yeah, through its bottom lip EOS
I bet it was when the weight of the dirt went on it EOS ooh, so not
only was it twitching and half dead i- under soil- it was drowning
under there as well EOS oh no, we had hamsters, and we had erm, you
have always have hamsters, don’t you? remember- cos **anon** had that
hamster that he brought home as well we had fish, and I remember one
of the fish died and the teacher was like, ‘oh, you need to flush it
down the toilet’, and I was really upset, cos we had fish when we were
little, didn’t we? Goldfish, and I was like, ‘you can’t put it down
the toilet, it’s not right’, ‘oh it’s dead, it’ll be alright’ and i- I
was like, I- yeah, but I was like worrying about it, she went off and
did it, and I’m thinking, ‘God, what if it isn’t dead’, it would be
like stuck in the u-bend, you know, in the toilet EOS just there
forever, swimming around EOS and then we had the stick insects that no
one wanted to clean cos you had to take them out, ooh God, I don’t
like insects EOS did he not just poo all over? oh yeah, we had them,
yeah EOS I’m surprised it ever bothered to come out to fly EOS oh,
that’s nasty, remember them cockatiels we had though, and we used to
let them out and they’d fly around in the living room and I had one,
mine was **anon** like the grey one, wasn’t it, with the red cheeks
EOS and then **anon** had, what was his, **anon**? His white one, was
it EOS and it used to like land on his head, remember, and it used to
route through his hair EOS it used to like- I dunno like, yeah, yeah
used to like, clean his head, you know like with his beak, was really
weird EOS I remember them getting out one day, into the rockery at the
back, and they were going behind and me **anon** was there, and he’s
quite big me **anon**, isn’t he? And he was like, running around EOS
from one side of the rockery to the other trying to catch these
rabbits, remember that happening EOS is that the dogs? I thought- I
thought I haven’t got anything in the washer EOS sounds like the
washing machine moving EOS oh, yeah, yeah, yeah EOS I bet me Nanna was
glad, weren’t she, I bet she didn’t like having EOS no, so how did you
like get from the flats to there, did you always just used to walk?
it’s quite far that EOS yeah, it’s quite f- do people not use the
buses? used to go on your bike- that’s quite far though isn’t it, from
where you were? kids don’t do that now though, you never like see them
playing out- when they’re outside they’re just being a menace unless
they’re really little like the ones around here, where they’re out on
the bikes, you know, and stuff like that, and you see them on the
skateboards and stuff, now they’re just EOS vandalising summet aren’t
they, or drinking on the corner, or- back outside, get some more dirt
in it, you’ll be alright EOS yeah, and they have all them signs up
don’t they and stuff EOS well now, if kids do go on it and hurt their
self, they end up claiming, don’t they EOS I think what it is now, is
just people- kids then were just like naughty, and they were playing,
but now, they’re just disrespectful aren’t they, I think EOS there’s a
difference, isn’t there? but people were just curious and that EOS
yeah but now you see- I saw some- a little kid the other day, in a
full batman suit, just walking round Morrison’s with his Mum EOS just
something to EOS cover your face, yeah EOS well it’s like when I was-
little I remember like there was- there was like sort of two ways of
dressing up f- f- for Halloween weren’t there, there was like EOS erm,
yeah, but it’s out there EOS erm, there was like two ways of dressing
up for Halloween, there was like, you could either- get you like erm,
proper stuff- remember when I used to have them EOS do you remember
them that you used to put on, and then like they’d have the red nails
on the end, you’d have them or you’d just like go totally the other
way and just wear summet black and tie a bin bag like round you and
then you’d just go and run round if you wanted to be really lazy, and
just knock on the doors, but then when you’re a kid like you love
doing that and then like, when you get older now, and all the kids
start coming round, you just like close the curtains and turn all the
lights off and pretend you’re not in so you don’t have to give them
anything EOS cos like, when I had my other house, I- I didn’t have any
sweets in, I’d completely forgot, and I had like a few chocolate
biscuits, and then, like, I gave a few of them out, and after that I’d
run out and they were like, this last group come round, and I was
like, ‘oh, I’ll just give them twenty p each’ you know, and then once
they knew there was money coming from one address EOS they all came
back and started knocking on the door, so I had to like turn all the
lights off downstairs, and go and sit upstairs, in the back bedroom
cos like the terraces are like, alleys, aren’t they, in between? so
they wouldn’t know we were in there, so we was like camped out in the
bedroom for the whole night at the back, with like this tiny little TV
and the computer, just watching that like, ignoring them all knocking
on the door EOS go walking round EOS and then when they used to ask
you for the trick you always used to be like, ‘I don’t know that,
can’t I just have some sweets’ EOS yeah, it was like, there was them
benches round the side weren’t EOS I was telling **anon** that cos he
was- we’d drove past the shop the other week but I think it was when
we went up to **anon** we were coming back, and they’ve took all the
trees down in front of it now EOS yeah, do you remember when we used
to stand there, me and **anon**, and we used to be ripping all the
bark off them trees EOS and stuff at the side, and then there was the
chippy next door, and then I was telling him about when we used to sit
in the video shop when it was closed in the day, and we’d like, sit in
behind the counter and there was like the door for the store room, and
we had like them little goblins that used to stick and roll down
things, and we used to be throwing them at the door, and racing them
EOS like down the door and th- but they never used to make it all the
way down, they used to always get half way and fall off EOS yeah, cos
they were just covered in that much dirt from the floor that they
didn’t stick anymore EOS Yeah, **anon** still not that nice now
though, is it EOS and they’re building all them houses now aren’t
they, around it EOS to hide it, the middle of it EOS yeah, building
all nice stuff- yeah, it’s cos in- cos they’re bringing all the BBC up
and everything EOS they’re hoping they’re all gonna move in aren’t
they EOS yeah, and that’s going on the Lowry isn’t it, what used to be
there though, where the Lowry is? no, it’s all like warehouses isn’t
it, yeah EOS yeah, that no one wants to live in, yeah EOS right on an
industrial estate EOS yeah, and the controllers were on top of the
lift EOS I hate that though, when you’re in a lift EOS and it doesn’t
do what you want, cos you always think, ‘I’m gonna get stuck, the
doors not gonna open’, I did it at work the other day, I went in the
lift, cos they’re working on our building at the minute, so we have
to- cos we’re on the ground floor, they’re working on like all the
floors in between, where we were able to go to the toilets, cos
there’s not toilets on ours, erm, and then the ones where they’ve got
nobody on them, they’re block- they’re locked, so we have to b- going
up to the seventh floor to use the toilets, and erm, like, I went in
and I was that- I had me phone with me, I was on me lunch and I went
in, I had me phone with me, I’m like messing with it, I walked into
the lift, then it goes, ‘doors closing’ like this, I’m stood there and
I’m thinking, ‘it’s not going’ EOS nothing’s happening and I’d just
not pressed the button, but it was quiet, and then the lights started
going off EOS and I was thinking, ‘oh God, I’m stuck’ EOS and if you
don’t, you will do when you get stuck in it EOS I don’t think so, no
EOS wait for a scream EOS it is, isn’t it? It is simpleCan you just count to three? Is that OK? Yeah, yeah I go that way.Well Vivienne **anon**, we know where we went to school. No left
channel EOS We went to the same school. it was. Now did you ever get
into trouble at school? Can you EOS Ah. Well I remember getting into
trouble at that school and I got the EOS I was late, I’ve never been
late in my life, and I still hate being late for anything. And I
dawdled on the way to school and suddenly I realised that the doors
were locked and I couldn’t get in. And I had to stand waiting while
they did the prayers. Erm I was in the junior school, so possibly
about eleven. Ten or eleven. And I got the- this cane on my l- on my
hand EOS **anon** and it was- And do you know it really hurt, it- and
I was so mortified that I had to stand there in the hall and be caned.
Section omitted due to recording problem EOS Difficult years to be a
child in. Erm wondering from one day to the next whether the Germans
would arrive on the doorstep. We did at school, which we had to go
into. And practice for air-raids. I got thumped in one of those, I
remember, very, very hard in the EOS Somebody thumped me, we never
knew who it was. But er-. I did actually. It was a church school. It
was always a very good school. But as far as favourite teacher Left
channel resumes EOS Yes possibly, she came from Irlam. Mm, she did. I
don’t remember that name. right, right, I remember **anon**. Now she
was extremely strict. Very strict lady. She was a large lady and she
was very, very strict, everyone was frightened of her. As far as your
first day at school, that school- I actually, had been up in the lake
district cos I’d been evacuated erm to my aunt’s. And I do not
remember really my first day at school but I do remember at the
infants. And I do remember you and **anon** with your lovely dark
black EOS that was cut you know, with your fringes. I remember looking
and thinking, ‘ooh what lovely hair!’ EOS Oh, oh right. ooh, cos it
was a big operation. mm, mm, summer holidays for me were again, back
in the Lake District. Erm I used to go on . mm, no they didn’t no.
Well you couldn’t because there was no seaside to go to, because it
was mined, all the beaches. I do remember going to Blackpool once. And
it was all barbed wire and you weren’t allowed on the beach to play.
Erm I presume it was all mined and you know, waiting for an EOS So
beaches were just you know-. No go areas yes. Yes. No, it wasn’t very
good at times. Yes and I still hate celery. raw celery, I hate, but I
love it in stews. I do actually like it. Yes, in stews. Yes, no. But I
think- I think it was very difficult for our parents to feed- I mean,
there were th- three of us, ‘til **anon** was born. had my sister, in
nineteen forty four, so- it was hard to- everything was so rationed.
It was dreadful, you queued for everything. Sweet coupons, yes. Oh
yes, yes. Oh gosh, really? Oh gosh that American powdered egg. We w-
we were very lucky, we had erm- my grandfather wrote to a lady in
America who had been the fiancée of an uncle. Who died in the first
world war. And she went out and married someone else. And went out to
America and she sent us food parcels, all the way through the war. She
was very religious and the church that she went to, they collected for
the English people. And they used to send us some wonderful things
over. Erm and it must’ve been quite expensive to get it over in those
days, they wouldn’t be flown over. It would’ve come by boat. The only
thing I hated was the wintergreen sweets that they sent. Oh they were
dreadful, they were American, wintergreen, and the chocolate was bad
as well. And I- I never liked those. I don’t, no. yes, yes, yes. But
they used to send- also, they collected clothes. Clothes that were
practically new. And I absolutely hated them. Because my mother cut
them down, to fit me and they were American style sleeves. And I was
different at school in them. And I absolutely hated them. And they
were beautiful things, I’m sure. But they weren’t what I wanted. But
there were no clothes. Very difficult to get. mm, Well I- I remember
my mother making my eldest sister- half sister, erm, wedding cake.
That would be probably nineteen- **anon** was born in forty four, so
this would be forty five, I think. And my mum- my mother had got all
the cake mixture, black market cake mixture of course. Erm and she
made this wedding cake and she took it out of the oven and it fell
into three pieces. And she was absolutely horrified because she’d been
a cook, that was her- what she did as a young woman, and I think she
got the almond paste and stuck it together. Where the cracks were. And
iced over it and nobody knew any EOS So that- but that stuck in my
mind and yes, that’s amazing. Erm but I used to- I did a lot of the
queuing fo- for food. Yes because my mother had obviously had my
sister in nineteen forty EOS and I used to go and do all the-. Did you
do it as well Vivienne **anon**? Oh absolutely. When you watch these-
I love the history programmes EOS and I do watch them and you know,
what went on in the war years. And they’re absolutely perfect because
you know, they are true footage. Of what it was like and it makes you
think, ‘how did we ever EOS No, we had probably just about enough but
er-. Well we’re still here at seventy four and touch our toes,
Vivienne EOS mm, I can. Yes. Oh gosh yes. yeah, yeah, well we’ve got
our own teeth. Oh did you? Oh right, right. We’ve got our own hair
colour! The hairdresser’s very helpful EOS Erm you know and what else?
Well I’ve got contact lenses. I fool everyone cos I’ve got contact
lenses. Oh gosh yes, yeah EOS I’ve had them about- oh I don’t know,
twenty five years, probably EOS mm, since I- I’m more-. Erm, well my
grandson who’s eleven, well twelve tomorrow. He use- he has contact
lenses, **anon**. And what a difference it’s made to his life, and I
taught him how to EOS Yes, and erm I did explain it and I keep saying,
you know, ‘you must wash your hands, all the time!’ EOS You don’t want
to get infected eyes. And I spent a long time- . Explaining how to do
it, and do you know, he- he was brilliant. And he’s so thrilled
because he doesn’t have to wear glasses any EOS Yes, made a big
difference to him at school. They’re quite cruel aren’t they? Some of
them. Yes I’m sure mine were really, yes. We did Vivienne **anon** you
went to the grammar school. And I went to a technical col- commercial
college. And w- and- yes. I think they just had netball at **anon**
when I went there. You are better when you’re tall, yes. Yes oh yes.
mm, mm, yes. Taller, yes, yes. And as far as brothers and sisters of
course, I had- my father sadly lost his first wife with consumption as
they called it in those days. Er in nineteen twenty nine or stroke
thirty. Erm my sister was three. And my brother was a baby, about six
months old. And my father was working, because of all the problems
with like today, jobs that are difficult. And of course the twenties
and thir- well the twenties was very difficult. And he went to live in
Yorkshire. And-. Well I can’t just remember now, though I’m trying
very hard to. There was a very large erm- water supply, a big erm-.
Yes and it f- I think it fed Leeds I think, up there, but it’s
beautiful up there. And they had-. No, no it isn’t. Erm and I have
photographs of my father up a telegraph pole, cos he EOS Wiring it all
up. And they had houses as well, and that- my sister took me about
four or five years ago and the foundations of the houses which were
stone were still there. Just the foundations, you could see where they
were. Erm and the water authority, it hadn’t been open actually to the
public and they’d o- they’d o- they’d only just opened this particular
spot. Erm and so it was quite you know, interesting to go. And
obviously my father’s been dead twenty years now. Erm but-. Erm, well
my mother- father twen- mother twenty and my father twenty two I
think. And then what happened, she got this consumption living there.
Sadly and had to go to er a sanatorium. And he took his two children
back to Windermere where he came from. And his mother looked after
them. And that’s how he met my mother EOS there. Erm, so it was quite-
really quite sad. Yeah for him erm-. Mm, yeah they were. Yes. Another
little girl, one two three four. Oh yes. But then you see, what
happened with- with grandchildren. Six EOS And three granddaughters.
And five boys, one after the other. We didn’t have any girls at all.
Mm. But erm-. mm, really mm. Did she really Vivienne **anon**? Ooh you
can remember things better than me. Oh, yes, that’s- it is, probably
were, yes. But you never got much for Christmas, I certainly didn’t.
There were just no toys at all. in the forties EOS Oh I know. Yeah.
That’s right and a few nuts. You alw- I had a pillowcase, always had a
pillowcase and there was nuts in the bottom, a tangerine and an EOS
And erm they were- I don’t know that it was quite exciting to have
those at the very bottom. But I used to be so upset when there was
nothing left in it at all. And wishing there were more things, but
there were no books Vivienne EOS and I never had a doll for- I never
played with dolls. mm, well my mother-. exactly. Yes, yes. Well I do
remember a book that I was bought. Two books- one was ‘The prisoner of
Zenda’ and ‘Rupert of Hensor.’ EOS And they were hideous books, they
were far too old for me. And I c- I don’t really think I ever read
them really. but there were no children’s books. But **anon** from the
post office, her parents could always find Rupert books. Mm, she
always had the annuals for Rupert. And I was lucky, because she used
to lend them to me. You know, and so I could read them. But I never
had any books. And my mother, desperate to get me a doll she went to
the doll’s hospital in EOS And you remember that Vivienne **anon**.
Bought two heads and sewed them on this- these bodies she’d made. And
I had- I always had a black doll. I absolutely loved black dolls, more
than white dolls. Cos I just had this attraction f- for black dolls.
And she got me a black and a white one. And I went to see **anon** my
friend at the time. Yes, yeah. And **anon** dropped one of my dolls
EOS and the head smashed into pieces. And I was so horrified I lifted
my arms up and dropped mine. So I had EOS So both the heads had gone.
mm, yes, yes. Yeah, she w- she wasn’t- wasn’t particularly good at
sewing. But erm, she went to quite a bit of trouble to try and make up
for what wasn’t there. What we didn’t have, exactly. But my sister
arriving in forty four. Everything went to her. Er the- I- I could not
remember what a banana looked like. I hadn’t ever had one, you see,
that I could remember. Now I don’t know how many there were, whether
there was only one, but my father- it had to be **anon** that had the
banana. I remember looking at this and thinking, ‘I wonder what it
really does taste like?’ EOS And I didn’t find out, and I wonder why
they did that in those days. Could’ve given us half each, yes they
could actually. Erm so everything went to **anon**. Erm but it never
affected me in any way. I was never jealous. mm, mm, mm EOS mm, yes,
yeah. Oh right, yes EOS yes, catering, wasn’t it? Yes, a lot later.
But my grandparents lived in **anon**, as you know, and my grandmother
would give my half brother half a crow, which was quite a bit of EOS
And I was given sixpence. I never had what he had. Because he was the
son, you know, the grandson. And apparently my father used to get so
upset about it and so annoyed, he’d take me home and give me half a
crown. Yes. Just to make it up. Yes, yeah. They were like that with
sons. For some reason and we’ve got far more equality today. And you
don’t treat your children any different at whatever age. Yes. Yes,
quality, mm, yeah. yes I’m sure I did, I’m sure we had to really. Erm
washing up was always a pain, cos nobody wanted to dry. No, no, nobody
wanted to dry. So we used to argue, the three of us, cos **anon** was
too young. Erm and they used to- did they have no washing up liquid
Vivienne EOS It was Persil. We used to put washing powder in EOS and
wash the pots in washing powder. Oh they didn’t have it, no, no, and
my mother-. No- no they boiled everything, didn’t they, in a boiler,
but I do remember my mother grating fairy soap, white blocks- sorry
green blocks of fairy soap. And she would grate it into the dolly tub.
Er with boiling water so it melted, an- and became- so it would clean
the clothes properly. And they always washed on a Monday. Yes, yes. If
they got it dry. mm, was routine. And we had a cellar, where my mother
had clothes EOS And she used to hang her clothes EOS in the cellar to
dry. And we did have a very old coke burner down there for when the
sirens went and there was bombing. yeah and- and erm, my grandfather
had gone to the railways and he was a joiner, when he was younger and
lived in the Lake District. But he came down to live with us and erm
he went and got all these- erm, this- these pieces of wood from the
railway that- sleepers. And he propped the whole of the ceiling of the
cellar up in case we had an air-raid or a bomb- Oh where were your-
where are you parents from, well mine are from the Lake District. Both
living in Windemere. Er back-to-back and never knew each other.
Because my father was four years older than my mother. But they didn’t
find out until of course they met up, after his first wife EOS And my-
my mother was engaged to erm a- a man who went out to Canada and lost
all his money on the crash- Wall Street crash. And said, ‘well I’ve
got to start again, I’ll send for you,’ EOS and she said, ‘don’t
bother I’m not waiting.’ EOS And meanwhile her best friend who was my
father’s cousin, girl. Erm just asked her if she’d like to co- go out,
as a foursome because EOS my father had lost his wife EOS and she
wanted to cheer him up and that’s how I become- th- that’s how I ended
up sitting here talking today. If they’d never got together I wouldn’t
be here. Yes oh life is strange isn’t it? Mm EOS Oh did he? Oh so why
didn’t he? What was the reason? Yes. Yes, was he an only one? Mm, my
parents didn’t smoke. But my brother did, me half-brother did. And
**anon** my half sister. No, no I haven’t. mm, and actually my parents
were tee-total. Until my father got to eighty and then he used to have
his brandy in a morning, to keep his heart going he used to say. Well
yes, they did. Yes, yes, but erm EOS Oh but erm, Well it’s beer today,
apparently. Giving- yeah keeping your heart going. I think I’ll do
without, mm, mm EOS What are local people like? The people where I
live- well they’re all very nice really, it’s quite quiet, but it’s a-
it’s such a good area, I mean the house is up for sale, I can’t
imagine why nobody buys it. Because it’s such a super spot to be,
you’ve got the railway, you’ve got-. Everything’s at hand, you’ve got
sports centres, you’ve got swimming pools, golf courses. You can get
into Manchester so quickly, and you can get onto the M- sixty- sixty
two, sixty-one, fifty six, in ten minutes. Yes and the- the thing
about the Trafford centre is- it- I didn’t like it when it was first
built, I thought it would kill off all the sho- local shops, which it
did. But I do enjoy going and I go at least twice a week. And I don’t
particularly buy erm, but I c- if I want to, everything’s there. I’ll
just go because it’s very nice inside and you can have a nice coffee
and a cake on a morning. Yes. And er- and I do quite enjoy going and
it’s just so quick to get there and to park and-. It’s just no
problem, so that’s a great advantage to this area to me. I’ve never
been into Manchester for years and I don’t think I ever will really.
I’ve got- There’s nothing there for me. Oh right. Yes, yes EOS Mm,
very nice. Trafford centre, yes. Yeah. Yes probably. Yes we did. We
certainly did. mm, yes we used to go on to the pictures after we’d
been to church. Well, definitely! Yes those were the days. But I
think, I remember it being more difficult for food, clothes and
everything else after nineteen forty five. Because that’s when it was
really difficult, when they put bread on rationing. That was awful. It
went to about fifty two I think. But it went worse- I don’t think we
probably got the help from America that we’d had during the war. yeah
I think so, mm. Yes. The Americans, mm. Anything like- well, above-
above the counter. And on show, everything was under the counter.
Nothing was on show. No food was on show. Dead chicken, was it
plucked? Oh you didn’t! How did you carry it? Can I ask you, did you
eat any of it when you got home? And prepared it, oh EOS Really? Oh
that’s not right at all is it? It was, yes, he did. Any animosity
between you. mm, mm, my mother lived on a farm, erm, and my
grandfather was a EOS Which was- it- you know he- he rented and he
worked for the farmer and it was in Warrington, cos he came down all
the way from the Lake District, how they got down I’ve no idea. But
they always- no and they were on this farm called **anon**, which is
still there in- in Warrington, Daresbury actually. And my mother went
to school at Daresbury village. And erm she said that my father- my
grandfather always had- if they had an egg, they only got the top off
the egg, and gra- and her father got the whole egg. Cos he was the
working- he was working. and he was providing. And she said there was
ce- there were- there were lots of vegetables, and she said, ‘he never
took anything that wasn’t his’. And she said, ‘we could’ve lived
really well if he’d just- taken a few of these veggies and brought
them home.’ EOS But he never did. Never took anything that wasn’t
theirs they were so EOS Mm, then they went back of course, went back
to erm-. Yes went back to Ulverston, mm EOS Yes, yes I did actually,
I’d seen it before. Yes. My cousin that still lives there, erm her
grandson is erm- well his girlfriend, who lives on **anon**, which is
the island that nobody’s- yes, it’s a beautiful house EOS It’s the
**anon** that have got that. The people who had the insurance company,
**anon** insurance company. And they bought the island and they live
there. And this is their daughter. And she swam the English channel
about two weeks ago. For charity, yes. She’s a st- I think she’s a
student now, I- I th- - I’m not sure whether- she’s got two grandsons,
and I’m not sure whether this particular grandson is the one that’s
living locally in Manchester, come down from the Lake District erm cos
there are two of them and I do get them confused and they’re both at
university, or one has EOS But this girlfriend, yeah she swam the
English channel. Yes. Cos she- she let me know the other week about
it, yeah. Oh did she, I’ve no- I didn’t see that. The English Channel?
You’ve got the jellyfish problem with the English Channel. haven’t
you, really? Mm, Yes very beautiful if it’s not raining. mm, mm,
beautiful, mm EOS Mm, they’ve had very bad weather this last winter.
Yes a lot of- yes, yeah and rain. My cousin, when she was telling me
about these- this er grandson’s girlfriend. Erm she said, ‘oh you
wouldn’t believe how low they are.’ She said, ‘we’ve been out and
we’ve been looking and they’re extremely EOS He what, sorry? Did he? I
hope this is not being used in evidence against him EOS for a thousand
pounds. mm, well I mean, I use my hosepipe to fill my watering can and
my gra- my son-in-law said, ‘you can’t do that it’s illegal.’ I said,
‘rubbish. It can’t be illegal.’ But I’ll tell you one thing. This
hosepipe ban is so ridiculous cos you waste more money- sorry more EOS
In a watering can. Because you’re being- it’s pouring out and EOS and
if it was coming out as a spray EOS and a shower, it would go into the
flowers and everything quicker. But it’s just going over the tops and-
and going on the- one the road. On the pavements. Mm, I do. Yes, but
still. Well at home but what about these- can you still take them to
the-? Places to have them cleaned. Oh right, right. I didn’t realise
that. oh yes, yes, mmhmm, mm, no. Well my- I’ve got one hanging
basket, beautiful EOS because it’s rained on it and the other one is
slightly under the EOS at the front door and it’s dead. And **anon**
never bothered watering it. So I’ve had to get it down and just let
the tap run on it, so that’s wasted a lot of water. Today, whether it
will revive, I don’t think it will. Oh gosh you do because it doesn’t
get through. It only stays on the top. Hmm, how are we doing?One two three. We went to **anon** school. I did get into trouble
once, it was something to do with a bird. And someb- I think the boy
that got me into trouble, somebody called **anon** who lived on
**anon**. But I can’t remember exactly how it all came about. But I
know **anon** wasn’t very happy. Oh I got the cane for it. How old
were you then? who gave you that? **anon**? He was a bit handy with
his cane, wasn’t he? Cos we had shelters didn’t we? yes, air raids, mm
EOS Well you wouldn’t in the dark, no EOS But I quite enjoyed
**anon**. Was there one called **anon**? I think she was a favourite.
**anon** with the strap in the corner. She used to frighten me to
death. But she was a very, very good teacher. Was her name **anon**?
She used to play the piano. And if we didn’t sing- she taught us
‘Jerusalem’ and if we didn’t sing it correctly, oh my word! She was
very strict. No right channel EOS Well I think-. I remember my first
day. Cos I was five when I went. Right channel resumes) EOS And I
think the teacher was called **anon** EOS And I can picture the
classroom. And our **anon** younger than me, she cried because she
wanted to come as well. So she started as well, shortly afterwards. No
right channel EOS Erm- but then our **anon** had appendicitis M did
she EOS and she was rushed to hospital. And she missed quite a bit of
schooling because of it. It was in those days, yes. Cos they were
frightened it might be EOS Because **anon**, my dad’s sister, she had
died at fourteen EOS with peritonitis. Erm and we always felt that she
never quite caught up, because she missed-. The grounding, you know,
the basics. She’s alright now but that’s the way we felt. Right
channel resumes EOS We used to go on coach trips, Stratford upon Avon.
Erm I didn’t go to Scarborough. Erm, round Wales. Me dad used to take
us to New Brighton on the bus. But that’s as far as it went in those
days, cos people didn’t go on holiday, did they really? Yes I remember
Blackpool. A no go area. But having said that, I mean- our school
days- we never went short. We were never short of food or anything
like that. We made the most of what we had, erm EOS I’ve never really
taken to celery. I eat it because **anon** puts it in EOS but I can’t
say that it’s one of me favourite things. And sweets, when you think
nowadays the shops are absolutely full of EOS I suppose we were lucky
that erm my aunties were still at home and they gave us their sweet
coupons. And we used to go to **anon**. And er the main thing we had
were Barley sugars. And occasionally a treat, with a crunchie. But it
was- that was all you could get in those days. And then there was the
powdered egg, Canned coffee, ooh. Oh that was nice, yeah. over in tho-
yes EOS It’d take weeks! Oh I don’t remember those. I never had those.
Well even now I don’t think their chocolate is as nice as ours.
Because **anon** and **anon** love Thorntons, **anon** in particular
you know, the erm special toffee. And when me mum used to visit erm
**anon** in Chicago. Take some decent cadburies chocolates. yes not as
nice as hours. yes and you felt different. I don’t remember that
Maureen **anon**. I don’t remember. Yes, yes, mm EOS I know, well-.
Cos I know when people got married- I th- **anon** got married at the
end of the war, and it wasn’t a white outfit, it was sort of a two EOS
with a great big hat. She always wore a hat didn’t she? oh your poor
mum! But we had to do, didn’t we? I did the er- most of the errands.
and we used to go to **anon** on the other side of the trinity. Erm-.
And everything you know was sort of weighed and very precise. Well we
did, didn’t we? We never went short. Never went short. Yes and yet
it’s not done us any harm, has it? When you think EOS I don’t know
that I can touch my toes. Mind you I’ve never tried but I’m sure I
can’t. I’m sure I can’t. Oh dear. Oh I haven’t. Well I have half, the
bottom. But I had mine out at twenty six. Because I had terrible
teeth. Look at her laughing! Oh yeah and- well-. With a bit of help
EOS Absolutely. Erm, yes. Ooh no I just- I couldn’t put those in, I
couldn’t mess with my eyes. I need my glasses for reading but I just
couldn’t- if I had to wear them all the time, I’d have to wear them.
Just couldn’t put contact lenses in. **anon** does. But I couldn’t. Oh
I’m sure. Really, yes. Ooh hands going near your eyes. mm, Explaining
it to him. Because children generally don’t like wearing glasses. Oh
they are yes. Yes that’s right. I mean on the whole I think my school
days were happy days. But then after **anon** we parted company didn’t
we? I went to **anon** school. mm, yes. And I suppose I did sports at
the grammar school. Erm hockey, rounders, athletics. School choir. But
I m- that’s a bit like that now. All gone by the EOS Did they? Well
they had netball but I- I think being on the short side, I wasn’t very
good at netball. I was better at hockey. And yet funny, my best
friend, who was taller than me, you know, She was good at the high
jump. I did the long jump. She did netball, I did hockey. We just did
opposite things. And I think that’s partly to do with her being so
much taller than EOS Now then. Funniest memories from when we were
young. yeah- whereabouts in Yorkshire? Is it the reservoir that you
see when you’re on the M-sixty two? Oh was he? Do you know I thought
it would’ve been more than that, Maureen EOS Looked after them,
brought them up. Sad yes yeah. Well I can still picture your mother
and father, you know- big EOS Tall, and I know when I used to go
shopping in Peel Green to the butchers and your mum would be walking
along, and I’d say, ‘how’s Maureen **anon**? Another little girl!’ EOS
another little girl, Yes. Yes that’s right. Funny that. Just I do
remember when we used to go to church and you were in the choir, like
**anon** was in the choir. And used to go to **anon**, Christmas Eve,
carol singing. And your Mum, I remember one year in particular your
mum gave us all erm hot chocolate before we went. yes one Christmas
eve. Yeah, she gave us erm hot chocolate before we all set off for
church. Happy days those, really. But you and **anon**-. Well you
couldn’t- I think. The one thing I remember getting at Christmas was a
very nice- and it was off a friend of my mum and dad’s. A pencil box
with a- that’s erm roller top. But, you know, you come down Christmas
day, and your presents would be on the table. There’d be mine,
**anon** and **anon**. Because that was it, wasn’t it, and a bit of
fruit? Whatever- you know. mm, oh a tangerine. Yes. I- I wasn’t a doll
person, I did have one and I didn’t like it. I did have a nice doll’s
pram. And bicycle that me granddad bought. But it wasn’t at Christmas,
it was sort of later on. When you could afford it. You know cos they
worked- worked hard. Oh I don’t remember that but I remember the first
one. I was just thinking that. Oh I remember the doll’s hospital.
She’s a mutual friend, **anon**. We went to school with her, didn’t
we? none at all EOS Oh what a shame and your mum had gone to all that
trouble. Something- What we couldn’t have. I can’t remember when I was
little, no. Because I was three in thirty nine. So when the bananas
came, erm-. really does taste like. They could’ve given you half each.
Never bothered you, no I mean-. I was the first grandchild, spoilt.
And then there was **anon** and then **anon** was the first grandson.
And he was spoilt. But because I suppose my nanna and granddad-
granddad in particular with **anon** I was- me nanna was for me. Me
mum and dad tried to make it up to **anon**. They gave her more. Like
I went to the grammar school, **anon** went to the grammar school, so
erm- made sure that **anon** went to **anon**. And got a city and
guilds in erm-. And then of course, **anon** and **anon** EOS **anon**
came along later on. Ooh a lot of money in those days. mm, crown as
well. mm, cos we used to joke, you know me mum made a lot of our
clothes for **anon** and I. And of course we’d say- course our
**anon**’s came from Kendal Mills EOS But erm- yes, yes. No, me mum
and dad didn’t really, erm. Erm, because er- we’ve got a photograph of
the three of us and a friend of **anon** had knitted these fair-isle
cardigans in two ply. **anon** and I had cardigans, **anon** had erm-
I think it was a v-neck EOS And me mum made sure that the three of us
had the same. Yes, yeah. Tried to treat us all the same. But erm- now
then, what did I help out in the house a lot? Well I had to do. It’s
strange nobody likes drying isn’t it? Oh I don’t remember washing up-.
Persil, no washing up liq- I don’t remember washing up liquid. But
when you think no washing up liquid, no washing machine, or things
like that. Green blocks of fairy soap. mm, and then they- And ironed
on a tuesday. Yes, routine, routine EOS We had cellars. Oh the sirens
yes. yes we had our own sort of shelter at four-two-seven. At six-six-
three you used to go down in the cellar. But erm I remember my nan, my
nanna and **anon** heard the sirens. Went down into the cellar.
**anon** came home from work to find them in the cellar. ‘What you
doing in the cellar?’ ‘Well you know, the sirens went.’ They’d gone
down for the all-clear, hadn’t they? and they’d been there all
morning. Little things like that stick in your mind, don’t they? Well
it’s true isn’t it? It is, because **anon** always wanted- he did his
national service and always wanted to stay in the army. Yes he loved
it. Absolutely loved it. Because his mother and father said, ‘if you
stay in the army, that’s it you’ve no mother and father.’ EOS Because-
well they thought it was erm a reflection on them that he wanted to be
away from home. But they never really got on, he got on better with
his father than EOS but then his father would say, ‘well if you’d
stayed in the forces, you would never have met Vivienne **anon**.’ EOS
And he said, ‘well I’m sure we would have done,’ EOS ‘because we were
meant to be together.’ EOS So it’s funny how things work out, isn’t
it? With a terrible mother. Oh she was- . Yes and yet she was in a way
possessive, and yet she hadn’t got a lot of time for him. So I could
never weigh it all up. Nothing ever made EOS Erm and his father was
away a lot on business. You know and if he did anything wrong, ‘wait
‘til your father comes home!’ EOS And one incident, he’d been smoking
when he was about ten or eleven, with a friend. Friend had a- parents
had a pub and they went on the flat roof and he was so ill. And of
course his mother, ‘wait ‘til your father comes home!’ and then when
his father came home told him, ‘aren’t you going to give him a good
hiding?’ So he said, ‘he’s learnt EOS And he never really smoked
cigarettes again. Occasionally, if **anon** lit up he’d say, ‘ooh I
just fancy one,’ and he’d have one. But he never went out and bought a
packet of cigarettes. mm, no me dad smoked but me mum couldn’t stand
it. Couldn’t stand it. I’ve never smoked. **anon** has smoked but gave
it up some years ago. Erm **anon** has the odd one, more a social-
doesn’t sit at home smoking. **anon** doesn’t smoke, **anon** doesn’t
smoke. Well they used to say a drop of whiskey at night is good for
you. That’s my excuse if I have one. It’s good for me! cos you read
all these things in the paper, you know and glass of red wine. I know
that was in the paper the other day. Don’t like beer. Don’t like beer
at all. No. mm, everything’s to hand isn’t it, yes EOS mm, I think
you’re better placed than I am, in Irlam, because the buses are about-
they’re supposed to be every ten minutes but they’re not EOS and
there’s only really one into Manchester. And there’s another one that
goes through Manchester into the Trafford centre, or the Trafford
centre into Manchester. And they’re about the only two. You can, yeah,
yeah EOS In John Lewis, yes, mm EOS It is, it’s no problem. Well I go
into Manchester erm, normally every Thursday to meet two friends I
used to work with many years ago at ICI. And then I meet another
friend every other week on a Wednesday, that I used to work with at
ICI. So but normally I park in Marks and Spencers and then on a
Thursday have lunch in Marks, just a sandwich. One friend moans the
whole of the time EOS about the quality and the standard and the
noise, cos it is noisy in Marks and Spencers. Now if that particular
friend doesn’t come, er **anon** and I will go EOS which is erm an
Austrian patisserie. Ooh you should see the cakes! Oh lovely. Erm then
when I go with **anon** we go to the **anon**. Where you can have a
three course lunch for six pounds fifty. And I might walk through the
Arndale centre EOS erm, couple of times recently I have had a bit of a
walk round the Arndale but I’ve been looking for specific shops. And
there everything seems that little bit bigger EOS than in the Trafford
centre. And on Sunday, **anon** and I and **anon** we’d taken **anon**
back to w- erm the station, erm we went into EOS the Arndale and I
think- I can’t remember what we were looking for. But I was surprised,
it was a Sunday and I was able to park in Marks and Spencers car park.
It’s not cheap, parking in- and it does add- it adds to me lunch when
I go. I used to go on the bus. But you get on the bus and then there’s
these girls that get on with EOS dripping in cheap jewellery, not a
ring in sight, and oh. If smoking was allowed they’d be EOS I’m not a
snob EOS but you know, you do have certain standards don’t you? I
think it’s the way we were brought up Maureen **anon**, respect. In
those days. You respected your teachers and- and we went to church and
Sunday school, didn’t we? And then the pictures after church on a
Sunday night sometimes, the EOS When you think about it. mm. And we’d
done our duty, hadn’t we? we’d been to church. Yes because rationing
went on for quite some time, didn’t it? Yes it went on for some time.
Or thought we were going to get. Because there was the air base in
Warrington wasn’t there? Burtonwood EOS erm and I know a friend of my
auntie’s went out with one of the EOS and er- he used to take to erm
**anon**, girlfriend, loads of sweets EOS So you know we had sweets.
in that way. But it was a long time before things were really back to
normal. And I know we had a chicken nearly ever week and it was a
friend of my granddad’s and me dad’s, used to get these live chickens
EOS and they were in Pendleton, and I had to go on the bus and bring
back EOS Alive Maureen **anon**! And I’d no choice, I had to do it. It
used to be in a bag, and EOS I’d be sitting on the bus, terrified in
case it made a noise. Our **anon** would say that he did it, but if he
did it, I don’t remember. It was me, because I was the eldest. He
might have come on the odd occasion to keep me company. But in the
main, it was me. So we always had-. Oh once me mum had killed it and
cleaned it and everything. And it- mainly boiling . And she used to
make beautiful chicken soup. And erm our **anon** always had the best
of the chicken. And me mum would hide it under his rice, so that
**anon** and I couldn’t see it. But that’s how it was, he got the
best. And er- I mean we laugh about it, and the thing is, although we
know that he was in a way favoured, it never, has never- There’s never
been any jealousy among us. Between the five of us, at all really. No,
no motorways. Yeah, vegetables, mm EOS The Lake District. mm, I was
looking at the Lake District on the telly the other night, erm- did
you watch it? Yes, I’ve seen it before but I watched it again. Erm and
I thought, ‘oh we did have some nice little breaks up in the lake
district.’ EOS mmhmm, yes, in the middle bit EOS I’ve often wondered
if anybody lived there. Is it, mm, mm EOS mm, mm, yes, yeah. swam the
channel. mm, what about hat older lady swimming it? And kept going off
course? Yeah and I’ve forgot- I’ve forgotten how long it took her, but
she did it. But it took her hours and hours. Hours and hours and
hours. No it was nice, watching the Lake District, yes EOS Ooh, the
very first time we went on the Friday afternoon, it was raining so
hard. ‘Oh what have we done, why have we come?’ But then Saturday and
Sunday it was glorious. Mm with the snow and everything. I mean that’s
why I can’t understand the reservoirs being so low. When we’ve had so
much snow. I know when we used to drive over to Harrogate erm on the
M-sixty- two, we always looked at one reservoir, ‘oh it’s a bit low
this y- this week.’ EOS Do you know the one I mean? Yes and er we’d be
sort of, ‘oh there’s going to be a water EOS our **anon** had to defy
the hosepipe ban before. Had to defy the hosepipe ban. Because our
**anon** got all dog’s poo on EOS And so he had to swill them down. I
never thought about that EOS Well I think so, Maureen **anon** too. I
think it’s worse. I think it’s silly. I can understand them saying the
hosepipe ban for washing cars at EOS but you can still- Oh yes you can
still take them to these places. I mean the gardeners that I have,
**anon** said that he’d looked it up on the erm internet EOS and it
was so complicated, what you could, what you couldn’t do, that in the
end, he gave up. United utilities saying one thing, somebody else
saying something else, and he thought, ‘just don’t get it.’ EOS Yeah,
yeah, yeah. mm, c- It will, it will cos they said to me on Tuesday, I
said, ‘I know what you’re going to say,’ I said, ‘well you see it has
rained so I thought to myself ‘I don’t need to water them,’ EOS But
you still need to water them, so-.one, two, three, four, five EOS why is your sister well mad? you’re so
awkward, and- so d- that’s weird, why did she drive past his house
then? have a quick look EOS I can’t believe she w- that’s what she
wears to the gym EOS which fancy dress stuff? sorry, I thought she
would’ve woken me up if we were gonna go to the gym EOS she woke me up
and asked me for her- your Mum’s number EOS I don’t even know, and I
was like, ‘no, I don’t have it’, and then EOS I know, but then I
realised I did, I was like, ‘there you go’, and then I went back to
sleep EOS plus, I couldn’t’ve even gone to the gym, I had my boots
with me and I had nothing EOS well, if she wanted to go that badly, I
would’ve gone with her, but EOS eurgh, that lamb wasn’t as good this
morning smelling, I microwaved EOS it’s that lamb that we had last
time so we have to cook EOS lamb steak thing EOS yeah, the one EOS one
where the onions were too chunky EOS and, what- I dunno what else you
complained about, but, yeah, all EOS no, you complained about
something else as well EOS we had ratatouille EOS potatoes and lamb
sweet potato thingy, thingy EOS and the rice pudding EOS d- do you
think **anon** really made at me? it sounded like she was, you know
EOS when I- when I said about her being married and she was like,
‘yeah’, cos seeing someone EOS three times a week is like being
married, but I was like, ‘oh, shh’ EOS what, and keep him company? cos
he’ll be dying without her EOS she’s always down there EOS don’t know
what to say EOS okay what’s your least fav- why is **anon** coming
round, **anon** coming round because he’s cutting his cousin’s hair,
the one that’s like got something wrong with her EOS and like, she
can’t do- yeah, she’s got this like, I don’t know if it’s a disease,
as such EOS but it’s one of those things where you cons- like, she’s
constantly tired, like, she’ll get up for like an hour, and then
she’ll need to go back to bed and she can’t do her last year of Uni or
EOS because of it EOS well, she doesn’t, she was meant to come and get
her hair cut yesterday, and then she had to rearrange for three
o’clock today, I think she’s been sleeping since yesterday, ‘til today
so she can EOS yeah, eventually it’s just meant to like, wear off or
something, but, she’s dead weird anyway she’s like a d- no, she’s like
a dead bohemian weirdo EOS like a hippy EOS she used to have big hair,
like, that she just didn’t wash and just EOS and it was like blonde,
and it was like, out like this EOS well that’s what- and then, oh
yeah, so erm, he’s left all his kit bag here from when he did my Mum’s
hair on Saturday EOS cause he decided to go out, so EOS no, she likes
it now, she came back from the hairdressers, and she was like,
‘there’s too much blonde in it’ EOS I can, erm EOS she was like,
‘there’s too much blonde in it’, but I said to her, ‘ooh, I don’t know
if I like it there’s quite a lot of blonde in it’ then she hated it,
then she was like, ‘there’s too much blonde in it’ she was like, ‘will
you get **anon** to put some’- yeah, no, but she had like twice the
amount of that blonde, all like here, just there, none at the back EOS
**anon** just put a semi permanent dye on some of the blonde bits, to
dye them the brown colour EOS yeah, it looks nice now, so EOS if she
grew her hair out it would be grey EOS her hair all grows through grey
EOS yeah it does EOS her natural colour’s like as dark as mine though,
there’s a picture, erm, of her and all her sisters- no, but my natural
hair colour- but erm, there’s a picture of her and all her sisters,
like, together, and my Aun- my Grandma had this thing, that if you
were a child and you had short hair, you’d have lovely hair when you,
erm, old, she’s- when you’re older, like, and she’s Irish and she’s a
weirdo, so that’s what she thought she was like, ‘ooh, you’ll have
beautiful hair’ EOS when it grows, so erm, they all had a mushroom
haircut, apart from my **anon**, cos she had curly hair- like, when
it’s like that EOS so did I when I was like five though EOS so there’s
these pictures of- there’s these pictures when erm, my Mum and like
all her sisters are kids, in black and white pictures, all in dresses,
one with curly hair, the rest all with mushroom hair cuts, my cousin
**anon** walks past going, ‘why’s **anon** in a black and white
picture in a dress?’ EOS yeah, it’s the same colour as mine though,
actually, it does, that’s why she has to have blonde in her hair EOS
how old’s your Mum? my Mum’s forty seven EOS why have you drawn a tee-
shirt with ‘wet’ written on in it EOS oh, it’s a bit windy EOS
describe your least favourite teacher EOS your least favourite one EOS
yeah, if you want from college from college EOS he came into my work
the other day EOS walked in, I was setting- I was setting all the
tables up, and I went into the harness room and looked, and **anon**
one of the chefs is like, sat down like, writing stuff, and then I’m
looking and it’s **anon** bloody **anon**, I’m like, ‘oh my God, what
is he doing here’ EOS but then I realised, **anon** doing an- he’s one
of the chefs, but he’s doing an apprenticeship with **anon** and he
had **anon**- erm, no, he had **anon** EOS and he had, erm, whats-his-
name grey hair **anon** he had **anon** and **anon** EOS erm, for like
his lessons, but then **anon** comes every month and asks him like,
what’s he’s done and he has to do all this different cooking stuff and
he’s like, ‘have you done that?’, and **anon** like, ‘no’, and he’s
like, ‘oh, I’ll just sign it off EOS so then he- he comes up to me and
he’s like, ‘so how- is this where you’ve been hanging out?’ EOS ,
‘have you handed all your work in?’, and I was like, ‘yes’, erm, and I
was like what was he going on about? he was talking about some
rubbish- what, he’s working with you again? so why do you hate
**anon**? well, he didn’t though did he EOS he’s just a knobhead EOS
I’ll always remember- whenever I think about **anon** I’ll always
think of that time when he was writing on the board EOS was writing on
the board and th- the higher and higher he EOS tops coming out and you
can just see more and more of his arse, everyone’s like, ‘urgh’ EOS
and it’s like, ‘**anon**, why are you looking?’ EOS do you think?
Yeah, probably EOS I didn’t really- well yeah, **anon** probably from
college EOS **anon** was weird sometimes though, don’t you think?
like, she’d go in a mood over like stupid things EOS yeah, but she EOS
yeah, but she did often go in moods and stuff EOS if you said stuff
or- yeah she always seemed to take things too personal, as well
sometimes **anon** but my wor- my actual worst teacher I think about
when it- it’s gotta be **anon** from school when- she’s from **anon**
and she’s got like the strongest accent ever, erm, she had a baby, and
she was like- we were like, ‘what’ve you called your baby?’ and she’s
like, ‘**anon**’ , ‘oh, great’, and then erm, she got married and then
we weren’t sure if her name, because she couldn’t say ‘haitches', we
weren’t sure if her name was **anon** or **anon** for like a year EOS
cause she was that common EOS sounding she used to call **anon** all
time- she used to speak to **anon**, and erm, she’d call him **anon**
and sh- he’d be like, ‘’ all the time and she’d- I think she used to
do it on purpose, say words with ‘haitches’ EOS and she used to go,
‘do you want a chuffty badge?’ when- if you thought, like, if you got
something right or you were proud of yourself or something EOS and she
used to actually make them like, if you were doing something like,
creative, like ‘do a title page for your book’ she’d get like stickers
out and make a chuffty badge, like EOS ‘here’s your chuffty badge’ EOS
mm do you reckon who I’ll always remember from college EOS are you
surprised? she loved me EOS ‘I’m going to the Trafford Centre to meet
my someone special’, like, that arse and then, who was it- **anon**
that they always used to wind- wind him up about like, ‘is **anon**
your someone special?’, like, ‘no, my someone special’s called
**anon**’ like, oh God EOS the one that you were partners with in
**anon** and didn’t know his EOS for ages, and then bumped into him in
**anon** and like, ‘who’s that- who’s that’ I was like, ‘**anon**’
you’re like, ‘ooh aye’ EOS and the one that- the one that works at
**anon** EOS well, he did, anyway, but so did that **anon**, you know
the pregnant EOS I’ll always remember her though when she was at
**anon** when she was made partners with **anon**, cos **anon** had a
bad back, and she was pregnant, so the two of them couldn’t do
anything really EOS yeah, put them two together EOS yeah she was sick
wasn’t she, and she hurt her back or EOS well, you would be EOS yeah
she worked for like an hour and then stayed in the EOS oh yeah, cos
you didn’t eat all day EOS no, it was disgusting that place EOS eurgh,
the lunches were horrible there, whenever I think about- the buffet
was alright but, it was just the bloody- oh yeah, you didn’t get it
did you EOS it was the erm, thingy though, the erm four cheese and
mayonnaise sandwiches, I was like, eurgh, not eating that EOS the
cakes were good there but then there was that bitchy chef that always
used to come over and be like, ‘you can’t save all the cakes’, like,
‘well, we don’t wanna save all of them, but we’re not gonna chuck them
all away, people are hungry’ EOS chefs can just be mean at times,
can’t they? I’m not a chef EOS oh, I’ll have to be a chef on Wednesday
though EOS it’s so annoying, they’ll- and they’ll probably ask me
like, ‘is there this and this’, I’ll be like, ‘I don’t know’, some
woman came up to me yesterday and w- well, not yesterday the other day
when I was really, really busy, the only one behind the hot plate, and
she was like this, ‘can I just ask you a few questions about the
ingredients?’, I was like, ‘in a minute’ EOS what when she g- the one
that couldn’t have tomatoes, yeast or EOS just peppers, which is weird
EOS red and green EOS yeah, ‘any red or green peppers in it?’ ‘no’,
‘what about the other colours?’ I was like, ‘why don’t you ask me if
there’s any peppers in it?’ EOS oh, it’s getting warm in here again
EOS erm, what do you remember from your first day of school? your very
first day EOS I remember my blazer was like three times- sizes too big
for me EOS I had a black blazer EOS in year seven? I don’t- oh, I
remember hiding behind my Mum’s coat in primary school EOS she had a
big long coat, and I didn’t wanna say hi to anyone, so I lifted the
coat up and stood under it EOS I remember on the second day, erm, of
school we had PE EOS mm, mm, mm, mm EOS just to pick the stuff up EOS
we’ve gotta- he’s cutting her hair at three o’clock and he’ll have to
be quick or she’ll fall asleep EOS that’d be a bit dangerous someone
trying to cut their hair EOS imagine if she started sleep walking like
that guy EOS I wanna see it EOS why’s **anon** getting involved
though? the other week, well, no, this week, erm, some woman came into
work and erm, she was speaking to **anon** and was like, ‘right, so,
what we want is, we want the erm, late lunch’ and she was like, ‘I
don’t know if the late lunch is on today actually’ and then she was
like, ‘well, it’s outside’ and so then she was like- the late- it’s
just a menu that we do when the regular lunches come off, we do a late
lunch, so, they do t- like, cos they normally don’t do stuff to order,
they do shepherds pie EOS scampi, and erm, sticky mango chicken- no,
cos they cook it f- like, to order EOS and you get it brought over to
you and everything, so, but the main lunch was still out, so she goes
and asks if they’re doing it, and then erm, she was like he said
something like, erm, ‘we won’t be doing it until like, half three’ or
something, then she was like, ‘right, can we order it now, and come
back’ or something and then she was like, ‘right, we want two child’s
portions of the EOS she goes, ‘well, we can’t do child’s portions of
the shepherds pie’ she’s like, ‘why?’, ‘they’re already portioned up
in an adults portion, and they’re that price, and it doesn’t say
anywhere that we can do a child’s portion’ and she’s like, ‘well, we
want child’s portions, this is absolutely ridiculous’ so she’s
basically on one, she’s having a go at erm, **anon** then like,
wouldn’t stop, I don’t know what even she was saying to her, I kind of
looked over at her, and then in the end she was like, ‘it’s not very
good, you’re loosing five customers here that nanana’ EOS and going on
with herself, in the end she walks out, I turned to **anon** and said,
‘are you alright?’ like this, and then she smiles and kind of goes,
‘yeah’ and kind of like laughed it off, but kind of just to say,
‘yeah, it’s fine’, the woman comes back like, thirty seconds later, ‘I
don’t think it’s right that you’re laughing at us as soon as we
leave’, I was like, ‘excuse me, we weren’t laughing at her, I asked
her if she was alright’, and she was like, ‘no, I don’t think it’s
very funny, you’re laughing at us and we’re walking away, you’re- this
EOS what was that? mm EOS yeah, think so EOS I’m just gonna carry on
anyway EOS she just said that really EOS yeah, then she walked away,
and no-one even realised EOS no, we weren’t laughing, I asked her if
she was alright, because EOS it was quite personal the way that she
was saying to her, like, ‘w- why- what are you’ she kept saying to
her, ‘what are you gonna do EOS and she was like, ‘there’s nothing I
can do about it’ and in the end she- I thought that she’d just leave
it, the woman, and erm, erm, **anon** thought that **anon** or
**anon** would step in and say something to her, but they didn’t even
know what was going on, we had to say it to **anon** later on, oh, it
was ridiculous it’s EOS what are local people like in **anon**? what’s
wrong with it? wouldn’t have moved from here? at least they’re not
like in bred in **anon** EOS at least they’re not in bred in **anon**
EOS cos they’re all in bred in **anon** apparently EOS it’d be
slightly funny if you could do it EOS everyone’s posh to you that
isn’t like, you basically EOS you can read, you just can’t read well
EOS and you get confused EOS I said that you can’t read well EOS what
do you and your family do in your free time when you were EOS that’s
not- just sit in each others rooms and just not talk? no, cos you used
to do stuff with **anon** EOS well, what did you used to do with
**anon**? used to take him to the park EOS what did you- I thought,
no, I didn’t think you played on the playstation, I thought it was
that woman that used to come and visit EOS your Mum did a lot EOS oh,
guess so EOS did he ever put it all the way up? what did your Mum say?
what, with you? Why, did you do it to her? can we pause it at all?
two, three, four, five EOS yeah, great, that’s fantastic EOS the lying
down game No left channel EOS no, I never played it as th- the lying
down game, plankey EOS I don’t know what EOS I know my cousins used to
always play, erm, we had two but they were basically the same game but
they had different names, one of them we called, erm, was ‘pizza
planet’, and one of them was ‘cool kids’, and they were basically our
own, erm, takeaway, fast food place EOS I don’t actually know, but
it’s a bit weird, cos we used to like pretend that we had, the- erm,
like, frying the chips, and you used to, erm, have buttons to do the
drinks and stuff EOS and, erm, used to have wh- I don’t know what
those things are called, but you know those boards where you like
write on them, and then you can just wipe it off- no, it’s not like a
white board, erm- no, it’s like the grey stuff- yeah, one of them, I
think EOS erm, yes I think it was an electrasketch EOS erm, so and we
used to like write ‘cool kids’ on it and do like smiley faces and
stuff, and stick it on the door, and we’re like, ‘this is our
restaurant’ EOS I used to go to my cousins every Saturday EOS don’t
know why, but we used to do it all the time Left channel resumes EOS
and then we’d go to Drama on Sunday as well EOS erm what games did you
used to play as a kid? ‘you can decide what you’re eating’ EOS ‘it’s
up to you’ hmm EOS yeah, it’s really hard to think about what you used
to play as a kid EOS could never do that, I always used to tie my
laces EOS was that at **anon**? on the playstation? what, so you’d
wear your rollerblades and hold onto his- you’re such a geek EOS don’t
blame you EOS you didn’t wanna play with her in the gym EOS that is my
favourite thing, like, that’s happened in like, years EOS when you
were like ‘I’ve been to the gym, I need to eat’ EOS I’m like, ‘why’,
‘I need to put back on the weight that I’ve burnt off’ EOS that’s not
the purpose of the gym, for EOS well, obviously you’re meant to be at
the gym then aren’t you? swimming’s not that entertaining EOS how is
it? Just looking at water EOS it’s entertaining when **anon** swimming
EOS have you not- have I not told you about how **anon** swims? right,
anyway when **anon**- when **anon**- I was- I- we were talking about
this subject first, you changed the EOS right so **anon**- when
**anon** EOS when **anon** swimming EOS but- yeah, the chips in
**anon** make me always feel sick EOS cause of the smell from the- all
the chlorine EOS did you ever put armbands on someone’s feet? **anon**
nearly died, the lifeguard goes, he was like, ‘take them off, you put
armbands on your feet, and you go like that, and as soon as you let go
they go, pff, like that and you go upside down EOS and they’re like
stuck on your ankles EOS so you can’t get them off either EOS yeah,
no, they weren’t like EOS bought them cos they were pink, they were
like the pink ones that they sold there cos they had like yellow ones-
but anyway, as I was saying, when **anon** swimming EOS like when we
were on holiday, he’ll like go in and he looks like- like he’s like,
his neck’s like this, like the water’s there EOS and- and- so he’s
like this, and then every now and again he’ll go under and he’ll be
like spitting water out, like, oh my God, and he constantly looks like
he’s just going to die EOS like he’s stand there, and he’s like- and
he always grabs onto people like, ‘’ and then EOS so as you as you
get, like, when we’re on holiday, he’ll like be drowning me and I’ll
do like, that to him and- he can swim, just about, like, with that EOS
like, dying, I’m like, ‘oh my God, you’re the worst swimmer ever’ EOS
I’m better than him anyway EOS yeah, we only did it in year seven-
year five and year six, oh not in high school, no, we never did it in
high school EOS no, we only did it in Primary EOS yeah, I know, your
arm- your arms don’t really help with backstroke though, I don’t think
EOS you just always wet your face and stuff EOS no, you don’t do, yeah
EOS never even done that in my life EOS could you dive? do you know
what was the- were you ever jealous when you all used to come in- in
the pyjamas to do like the one with the EOS that was hilarious, I was
well jealous in year five, when all the year sixes were like- I’ve
never pl I was gonna, ah- I was gonna ask the most stupid EOS it
wasn’t about the horses in water polo anyway EOS g- I couldn’t
remember what it was for a second I was like, ‘oh yeah, polo’s the one
with the horses isn’t it, how do horses play water polo’ yeah, that
was a bit of a stupid onetemporarily. This is marked within the transcription. difficult to
hear during this time EOS do you want me to shut the door? okay EOS oh
my God EOS do you want me to open the door? windy though isn’t it
pretty windy EOS I don’t- erm, yeah, okay, wait 28.30 – Recording
paused – continues on in soundfile EOS is that not-one, two, three EOS cos you know the way she went EOS to- from the
petrol station EOS do you know who lives there? oh never mind now EOS
thanks it’s **anon** innit EOS that’s why I didn’t wanna EOS I think
she wanted to be nosey, to be honest EOS quick look, see what he’s
going on EOS they’re my shorts EOS do you know the ones that I wore
under my fancy dress stuff EOS they’re my shorts EOS like, the ones
that I just wear under any fancy dress stuff, like, whatever I need
yeah, so she wears that- that’s why she loves the free tops, that’s
why she wanted a free top from wherever EOS yeah that’d’ve been cool,
she’s obsessed, weirdo, I can’t believe you didn’t go the gym EOS I
thought you did actually wake you up EOS why would y- yeah, you do EOS
why did she want my Mum’s number? I told you, sister’s got shoes, she
would’ve found something to fit EOS and now she’s going on an empty
stomach EOS with a bit of lamb in her EOS it’s well fatty in the
morning though EOS she’ll be having lunch again EOS yeah, yeah, lunch,
it’s called Sunday lunch isn’t it EOS the lamb chops? The one that
mush- the onio- I only complained about the onions EOS no, it wasn’t
the mushrooms- I don’t even know what we had I can’t remember now EOS
oh aye, you just- yeah, yeah, yeah, that we spent all- most of the
afternoon making and then you just- mmm, rice pudding, mmm EOS bit of
that, bit of that we should EOS well how often does she wanna see her?
I think we should go round and see **anon** this week EOS mm well what
else is- I swear to God he most probably the boringest person this
week anyway you got an eyelash EOS sh- she won’t be, sh- she’ll just
be winding you up, I think if she’s that mad she would’ve text you EOS
I swear they see each other, they see each other twice at the EOS
standing isn’t it EOS is yeah man EOS so why’s **anon** coming round
anyway? something wrong with her? how does she cope? there was a
programme on TV about that, about sleeping beauty, and she sleeps like
three weeks and she missed all her GCSE re- exams and then she woke up
for her prom, and like there’s nothing you can do, there’s nothing you
can take, yeah it was on BBC iPlayer EOS you think everyone’s weird
EOS bit like Amy Winehouse EOS yeah, so anyway, carry on, why doesn’t
your Mum like her hair, I like it EOS I can’t believe you told her EOS
she’s only got in her fringe and EOS so has **anon** done it again?
what’s her natural colour? she’s not that old EOS it’s not that old
EOS no, she’s not as old as my Mum EOS yeah, but that’s not your
natural hair colour EOS what’s a mushroom haircut? oh, I know, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah EOS oh yeah, the pictures- yeah, I can’t
believe y-your Mum’s hair grows grey, you’re winding me up about that
EOS no, it doesn’t EOS no, she doesn’t, she’s not as old as my Mum EOS
f- forty eight EOS I think that’s how old my Mum- I dunno- dunno I
don’t do Maths EOS cause you’re the song from ‘Wet’ Nico- yeah, that’s
the one EOS it’s from that EOS so what- yeah, so EOS it’s gotta be
**anon** EOS no the one that we- yeah, the one we had from kitchen
last year EOS ahh, **anon** ace EOS he- he has got to be the worst
teacher EOS ah, do you know **anon** that came into our thingy when we
had EOS he came back to thingy and we swear he’s like got the sack cos
he’s always in work now EOS no he’s still like , but yeah EOS cause
he’s just knob EOS giving all them sheets in the last week of college,
swear to God didn’t need it EOS didn’t need it did we EOS no, because
technically he should’ve gave that sheet to us, evaluation sheet each
week we had him EOS well, I told you he was - excuse me, sorry EOS
ahh, the arse EOS **anon**, I wonder what she got, bet she got treble
distinction EOS mm should find her on- in facebook EOS but yeah, why
who’s yours? mmm, **anon** alright, **anon** was sound EOS yeah, but
she had problems at home Alan **anon**, don’t be tight EOS her best
mate was like dying of cancer EOS she never went in a mood with me,
she did go in a mood in a restaurant though when we EOS why couldn’t
she say ‘haitches’? **anon** on away- he’s away EOS why would you want
a chuffty badge? oh I see EOS **anon**? ah, that beasty EOS she’s- sh-
she had baby didn’t she? she got it took off her EOS ah, she hated me
EOS she hated me for a passion EOS I think it was the jogging pants
that did it for me EOS does he actually work at the **anon**? He does
EOS oh aye, she hated me EOS I think in the first year she did, second
years EOS ahh, **anon** was well pissed off with her there EOS didn’t
she stay in the first one like, in the bus all day EOS I remember you
dragging me to get some food like, ‘Nadine **anon**, you need to eat,
you’re gonna eat now’ EOS no, I didn’t eat the whole first day EOS I
don’t think I could cope being a runner, seeing the kitchen EOS why
would you pay like, nearly hundred and something quid f- we never had
the buffet in ours then EOS that was on the spinny things innit EOS I
wouldn’t mind but you didn’t even have hot water most of the time,
that coffee- coffee was minging EOS I remember serving coffee and it’s
just so rank EOS ‘people aren’t gonna’ chefs are well mean EOS our
chefs are mean at work, but yeah, they get away with murder as EOS
yeah, can’t they EOS no, you just stand there and look pretty EOS you
do though EOS gutted not coming to your kitchen I might come and EOS
and you’ll be like, ‘ahh, is this Nadine **anon**?’ EOS Alan **anon**,
Alan **anon**, Alan **anon**, you already told me this last EOS even
though you can’t remember the conversation we had I can EOS yeah and
then there was one about peppers, and she was allergic EOS and then
she’d EOS yeah, but she asked you about the red and- green, but she’s
actually allergic to all of them EOS standard yeah, just cos you can’t
remember EOS it’s the brightness I think EOS erm, from the very first
day? remember having take- picture taken at the front door EOS have
you not seen my pictures? you had a blazer? eurgh, minging I wore my
summer dress the first day EOS oh, in year seven? I thought you meant
like primary school EOS you pussy I remember when high school, there
was like the bikes and erm, my sister’s like, ‘right, wait there’ EOS
ten past three, ‘don’t move until I’m here, wait there Nadine **anon**
wait there’ I went, ‘okay’ and then I met **anon** and then we walked
round and saw like all our chum mates and that was it EOS and we used
to all get lost as a four, just to be late to lesson, I remember in
the first day of year two I was- told my Mum she didn’t need to come
and pick me up again, I’m walking home and my Mum never p- walked to
school pick me up ever again so yeah, it wasn’t that far really from
me house, it was quite far actually for year twos EOS so why is
**anon** coming round apart from pick the bag up? oh, so you’re not
staying? can’t she just like fall asleep and then you just do it EOS
ahhh, that guy was mank, I swear we’re gonna watch that on EOS ahh,
no, did I tell you about **anon** getting told off from the CTV EOS
hot plate, **anon**- sprawled out across the thingy, right **anon**
was like showing it to **anon**, **anon** comes in cos we’re like
laying up the chalet, and **anon** goes, ‘who’s this, who’s this?’ and
I was ‘oh, that was **anon** before on the hot plate’, **anon** went
ape shit at him, honest to God, it was so funny EOS cause **anon**
came into see us cos she’s been away, and she’s like missed them, so
she came into see us all, and then she was like, ‘right, what’s the
goss’ and then she went to **anon** and **anon** was like, ‘ah, come
and have a look at this, come what **anon** did’ I wouldn’t mind, but
he only came in at eight, and then he ha- he was like sprawled across,
and **anon** was like, ‘I wouldn’t mind but you didn’t even go out
last night’ EOS ‘don’t agree to breakfast if you couldn’t’ he was the
one who got us into trouble with the customers, apparently we’re moody
people and we don’t wanna be here so EOS what’s a late lunch? so it’s
a bit like a buffet EOS yeah, carry on EOS so what else did she say
EOS didn’t she walked away and you laughed again? well you- to be
fair, you were laughing EOS you’re so mean, I’m a good girl when I’m
in EOS shit, I don’t speak to them EOS I hate **anon**, with a passion
EOS it’s just not right, you know it’s not right can’t bel- believe my
Mum kicked off about it erm, you know when **anon** said, at EOS ahh,
cos Mum- Mum said something about the house being up, and **anon**
goes ‘oh, you moving?’ EOS and sh- sh- Mum goes, ‘yeah’, and then I
went, ‘yeah’ and **anon** like, ‘oh, where do you wanna move round-
round here again?’ and she goes, ‘aye, don’t you?’ and then you said
something, and you were like, ‘I couldn’t turn back time’ and it’s
like, ‘if we could turn back time’ EOS and then your Mum was like,
‘yeah’ and I was like, ‘bloody hell, it’s starting now’, can’t believe
she said it she knows I wouldn’t EOS you know me EOS oh yeah, it’s
‘nine’ EOS it’s what **anon** was doing when he took the piss out of
EOS yeah, I’ll just shut up now EOS what? pr- pr- pr- problem is
right, **anon** was trying to do it again and it wasn’t funny EOS it
had- it was like one of them moment ones where it had to be there,
it’s like, carry on from the conversation, isn’t it, innit EOS but
yeah just cos you’re dead posh round here EOS you are posh, told you
you’re posh EOS yeah anyone’s posh that- that can read EOS you can’t,
you- you say it EOS oh right, okay EOS we used to stay in each others
room and not talk EOS standard, isn’t it EOS just not talk EOS yeah,
that was different EOS I used to play on the playstation, but, you
know, got bit of obsessed EOS yeah, and then break me arm EOS well,
you know I was never in when I was a kid I was always out tea on the
go micro-chips EOS yeah, night port thing, night care yeah but what
are y- who- are you meant to kept him entertained through the day? my
Mum like looked after him, I just kept him entertained EOS I didn’t do
anything, the only thing I did was give him a drink now EOS and then
like spill it over himself I remember trying putting his coat on once,
it was so funny, I so just like laughed all- for most of the day, Mum
goes, ‘you not ready yet?’, and I went, ‘no, can’t put his coat on’.
We had a moveable bed, and you know how they can rise, well, my
brothers could actually go right up to the ceiling EOS my Mum wasn’t
very happy with me EOS no, we’re both on it EOS and we go, ‘let’s see
how high it could go’, we didn’t realise it EOS but it got stuck,
like, we couldn’t move EOS so we were all, ‘oh, I’ll have to jump
off’, and Mum goes, ‘you dare jump off’, ‘can’t get it down Mum, can’t
get it down’, she goes, ‘yeah, you can’, okay so, yeah, we got it down
in eventually EOS but you know, like, when you go right to the top,
and then it was just like yeah EOS one, two, three, four, five EOS
come on, mine EOS yeah, man I don’t like- I don’t want about school
EOS I’m bored, thanks EOS what games did you like playing as a kid?
the lying down game, can’t believe it’s used to call EOS I can’t
believe- Is that why you got into hospitality Alan **anon**? that is
sad bastards EOS me hairs all knotty now EOS did you not have any of
your mates, so you had to hang round with EOS where’s the pencil? oh
well all the ti- I used to be a chef with my Nan, used to make her sit
there, you know the old newspapers, used to roll the cutlery in that
cos my Nan never used to have napkins, and I used to like take her
order, used to have like a little apron out- made out of a tea towel,
and I used to like make- tell her to sit there and she used to have to
proper like pretend she was eating, I’m like, ‘right Nan, you’ve
finished that now’ ‘on to-’ EOS ‘on to that’ yeah, used to have all
like her frying pans out and stuff and like, yeah, ‘I’m cooking Nan’
she’s like, ‘what am I eating?’ EOS I was like, ‘dunno, just make it
up as you go along’ EOS erm, I dunno, it was always school or home I
remember EOS we used to play shoe competition on the swings EOS yeah,
where you- where you sh- kick your shoes off on the swing EOS oh my
God, get a grip EOS ah no, cos you know like at the park they’ve got
like- you’ve got that spider web haven’t you? and then they’ve got the
like fence haven’t they? My sister could get it over that fence,
that’s a bowling green of course, so it’s old biddies that own it EOS
so they used to kick off every time my sister you like, played, ‘can I
have me shoe back please’ EOS yeah man, back in the day back in the
day EOS I dunno, always used to play with my brother we just used to-
no used to just have a ride around, holding his wheelchair with
rollerblades on EOS rollerblades, used to be mint weren’t it EOS hold
onto the back EOS and then you’d just like standard innit EOS I never
played with me sister hardly EOS she always used to be round at
**anon** house EOS ah, so boring EOS I get bored EOS I only went to
keep her company, I didn’t say I needed to loose some weight problem
is, she got knackered before me EOS mm, well that’s what she said but
I- how can you just like do exercise for an hour and a half gets EOS
go like swimming or something keeps you more entertained EOS dunno,
don’t feel like you’re doing much EOS no, I thought we were going
swimming today, see, we could’ve gone EOS because you didn’t go to the
gym EOS no, no, don’t change the subject EOS yeah, because you’re the
one who said we could go swimming and EOS you’re like, ‘ah no, I’m
going to the-’ yeah I might tell my Mum to come early and drag her
swimming with us EOS that sounds like a plan done it EOS ahh, and the
chips from that s- yeah, sorry EOS ahh, they used to be fit EOS
they’re fit, fit as, that used to be like, weekend, me and my sister,
that’s what I did with my sister, go swimming with the floats, and you
know if you had arm bands you weren’t allowed to go past like a EOS
which ones did you have? Them blow-up ones that you couldn’t put on
your arm like , and you can ne- you’re a boy EOS my bum’s sore now EOS
do you remember the rubber ring ones that you can get now EOS can he
not swim? I bet you’re not that good EOS I bet you’re not that good
did you used to go swimming in high EOS ‘til what age? They’re meant
to stop after the first two- two years EOS you didn’t do it in high
school? Jammy EOS we had to do it all the way to year, erm, eleven,
it’s only cos people couldn’t swim in our class EOS no, they seriously
couldn’t, no-one could swim in our class apart EOS it’s like, really
bad, she’d right- ‘we’ll do front crawl’, and we all had to like, be
in the lanes cos, to like, our class was that small we had one lane
each EOS and no joke, she says, ‘do front crawl’, no one could do it,
they’ll do doggy paddle, she’s like, ‘ah, do backstroke’, everyone
could do backstroke apart from the ones who used to just kick their
legs EOS no, I never see the point, and then erm, the breaststroke
cou- no-one could- everyone could do the arms, but then they didn’t do
the legs EOS right, they just like kicked their legs, but if you don’t
do your legs right you co- it doesn’t work the same, cos you’re meant
to glide in the s- yeah EOS you see, yeah, I’m a geek really, and then
erm yeah, no-one could do butterfly apart from me, everyone used to
stand there and- the one where you go, pfff EOS and you know that one
that you’ve gotta lie on your back but you’ve got to like go forward
oh, okay EOS it’s like the, yeah, it is, it’s like an unusual one, and
then we used to have to spin all the way down and then you used to
have to jump in the pool to extend your legs apparently, d- no, we
weren’t allowed to EOS I remember you did a belly flop once, it was so
funny EOS no, I wasn’t allowed, my sister did for BTEC sport EOS she
had to be in fully clothed shoes and everything and they did like this
diving and what have you with EOS the clothes on and stuff EOS we used
to do water polo, that used to be good EOS and no-one ever wanted to
go in the deep end EOS I’m really confusedjust count to three EOS yep, that’s fine, thank you EOS well you were
friends with **anon** weren’t you? you- weren’t you friends with
**anon**? I’ve not heard that name EOS yeah, I’ve heard that name EOS
oh right, yeah EOS there’ll be trips won’t there, going around? yeah,
other cities and stuff EOS yeah, we did- we did one last Friday EOS
it’s like monopoly money as well with it EOS yeah, yeah, it was good
EOS we didn’t do it in the end but I did alright, erm, one of mine was
something like six to one, eight to one, and I put three hundred on so
I got like quite a bit back so EOS yeah, I know EOS mm, that’s good
EOS yeah, it’ll be on Wikipedia EOS someone could’ve made that up
though if it doesn’t say EOS you can see if it’s on youtube first EOS
mm, and see if you like it EOS sometimes, sometimes it’s just snippets
EOS yeah, I have EOS just the life of Brian EOS only the one in LeedsThere is a problem with the Left channel between 02.06 and 02.20
meaning Rhys is much more difficult to hear during this period EOS
one, two, three, is that working? ah, that’s alright, ah, that’s
alright, here, you were talking about these cubes before, I’m not
going off that for the time being, I’m gonna just talk about these cos
**anon** has put the numbers on those there, so he’s done tho- you see
that one, this was a puzzle we got it EOS yeah, it is, that’s- that’s
right on there EOS so that was that one, so I think he’s done that- it
took him three days to do that but he’s erm, he just persevered and
persevered and that was it, and he’s done them all, so that was erm,
that’s pretty good, and the other thing is, erm, what was I gonna say,
I’ve got your- those ‘Kiss’ magazines for you, about time too and all
EOS and there’s a DVD that I bought from- oh it was- well, we watched
it last night, I put it on, erm, it was a concert that was recorded
for- in the MGM grand EOS that should’ve been on the internet, it
should’ve been streamed on EOS and the servers crashed apparently so
they didn’t watch it, and erm, but the concert went ahead, but there’s
on- the must’ve only been about four hundred people there EOS and it
was- but it was just invited guests, but anyway, it’s just a EOS aye,
it’s alright but it’s- but again, it’s- it’s only like four songs, so
I mean it’s- I know, but it was only like erm, a promotion thing for
the- for- I dunno if it was opening a hotel or- it w- it was only two
ninety-nine the- the DVD, so we watched that anyway, so we did that,
so I’ve put that in the packet for you as EOS so I’ve got that, so I
can trade you for your Classic Rock magazine EOS so you’ll be alright
with that so have you been at Dad’s today? what’ve you been doing? has
he repaired the ceiling? what did he- what did he need? Just to get
some plaster on it or has he sort of done it Problem with right
channel EOS oh has he been up on the- has- oh has he been on the roof
and done Right channel resumes EOS he wants to come to our house and
d- I saw him in the pub you know EOS he was in- in- in fact, he came
to the **anon** last- last Thursday EOS yeah, and I said erm, ‘so are
you coming to our house’ is it- oh he said, ‘I’ve- I’ve- I been to
your Dad’s to do his- to do his roof’ and I says, ‘well, you want to
come to our house and do ours’ and he went ‘oh, I’ve been really busy’
I thought, ‘you lazy bastard, you’ve done EOS I thought, ‘he hasn’t
done it’ so erm, so that was erm- so that- so is Dad- did Dad say
anything about working with me tomorrow? oh right, I- right, that’s
tomorrow EOS did he say Friday, he might come down on Friday EOS cause
he was saying about- when he was saying about getting a- a new bed he
was saying about moving his old bed into there and I said, ‘you don’t
want’- and getting himself a four foot bed or something, and I said,
‘you don’t want to do that, you just want- you just wanna, erm, use a
bed that you’ve, you know, use his old bed for him and buy a new bed
for that EOS for that room, so I’m sure he’ll do that eventually
anyway EOS so he should be alright with that one so have you been- are
you working the rest of this week or are you off for- for the- the- at
all EOS right, are you working d- days Saturday or evenings? right cos
I was gonna- I- I think at some point I’ll have to try and get down t-
town cos I wanna go to that **anon** and what’s the EOS yeah, but but
are you working during the day? just depends what time I get away cos
I- I won’t finish ‘til half one EOS so I’ll have to erm, we’ll have to
have a- have to have a think- about- about going over there cos with
**anon** and **anon** away, we’ve got like a free weekend, although,
**anon** going to see erm, Les Miserables or something is it, at erm,
The Lowry EOS she’s going there with erm, **anon** and **anon**
they’re having like a girly night- a girly night out so erm, hopefully
might- might get away on Saturday so that looks alright EOS so we’ll
go at erm, we’ll just have a- a quick these. Can you r- remember,
yeah, where did you go to school? It says on here come on with you,
come on, I know exactly where you went EOS yeah, secondary school EOS
and where was and what sorry? no they weren’t- weren’t the best days
of your life at- no, it was alright, I think I’d er- it says here, did
you ever get into trouble EOS yeah, I didn’t feel any pressure at- no
I didn’t at all I just- I just didn’t wanna go to **anon** EOS which
was- which was erm, I didn’t wanna go there so but I- I don’t recall
e- e- when we went to **anon** EOS I did, I did go to school but I
mean, I- I missed the odd day and I think but, I- I just erm, I d- I
didn’t feel- feel pressure with **anon** I suppose because she went-
she went to the girls grammar and- and I think she’d- but I- I always
felt as though I was following in your footsteps at school because all
the teachers sorta knew you, so every time I mentioned my name, they
goes, ‘oh you the brother of- of- are you **anon** brother?’ and then
y- you know, but you were quite good at school, so I mean, it- yeah,
whereas I didn’t- I didn’t sort of like, I didn’t do any homework, as
such, and I didn’t erm EOS I didn’t sort of erm, I mean- I mean I went
to lessons but I mean I- I didn’t work- work as hard as probably I
could’ve, I didn’t sort of, use my full potential, so to speak EOS
yeah, I don’t , but, yeah EOS see that’s it, I didn’t erm, I didn’t
like the staying in, studying bit, I’d rather be out playing foot- you
know, playing football or messing about with- with people so that’s
erm- that was my EOS oh I couldn’t read, I could- well, I could read
but I didn’t bother EOS didn’t bother with that one, I liked doing
Maths but I mean that was EOS that was- that wasn’t too bad, so erm, I
was gonna ask you another question then I can’t remember what it was,
cos erm, what was it about, wasn’t about school, it was about
something else EOS I was gonna do- oh yeah, how was Leeds, when you
went to Leeds? cause you just- with **anon** EOS sh- oh I see EOS
where do you go- where do you go for your lunch? is that just a ch-
is- was that a chain a bars or is that a restaurant or something or
EOS or is it like one of those EOS one of th- oh right, so is that one
of those where you can get eight- you know, two meals for two qu-
eight quid or ten quid or something? oh, bloody hell EOS did you get
the train up there or coach? yeah, how much is that now? that’s
alright, it’s like a bus service that isn’t it, didn’t- is- is it
every hour or every half hour or something? I remember that one EOS so
do you prefer- what’s erm- do you prefer Manchester or Leeds as a
city? cos it’s- well you’ve been a few times now haven’t you? I quite
like erm, getting the- go on EOS I think yeah, I like going into- I
mean I’ve never been into Leeds but I mean I like getting the train,
you know, when we’ve got the train into Manchester from- from Urmston
and you know, just had a- like a Saturday night in there, I mean it’s
not a late night for- for us, cos I mean the last train back- train
that’s back is what, quarter past eleven or something so I mean,
you’re not out all night but, you know, like you say about going into
the bars, there’s a lot of bars up at Deansgate, and just have a- a
few beers or a little restaurants in there and, I mean it’s quite a
good night out and it’s, I mean like you say, I mean there’s so many
people in there compared to EOS you know, Urmston I suppose on a- on a
Saturday and, I was gonna say as well, that I don’t- I feel more
threatened in Urmston going for a drink then I do- then I do in the
centre of Manchester EOS no I don’t, no, but I’m just saying the
amount of people that are in there, you know all having a- having a
few beers and, well it’s like at three in the morning I don’t know,
cos I never stay out that late EOS yeah yeah it used to, when I was-
yeah, that’s it, half two in the morning when- what was that- what was
that- I just can’t think of that bar EOS **anon**- there was **anon**
I don’t know if that’s still there, do you EOS **anon**- **anon**,
remember **anon** remember when we used to go in there so that was
erm, so that was erm, that was good, cos I was saying to you, it’s- do
you think that Ma- Manchester compared to **anon** where you used to
live, now that’s two different cities, cos **anon** more of a cultural
city than Manchester isn’t it EOS just where- wit- whe- if- if you had
the choice now of living in- living in **anon** where you used to live
or in Manchester, or- or EOS you know, where you live now EOS you
haven’t got Lostock have you EOS and there is a lotta tourists in- in
**anon** though, isn’t there EOS yeah, I suppose the thing with
**anon** is, I mean, because, I suppose, like holidays up there we
used to go to **anon** and stay on a farm and- and, you know, our
childhood was, I suppose our summer holidays, our childhood was- was
up there and I have very good memories of- of being at **anon** as
opposed to, you know, going into **anon** I mean I- I enjoyed it as a-
as a city, but I think EOS I suppose if- if- if I had the choice- if-
if I’d have got employment up there, it would’ve been a place that-
that I would’ve liked to have EOS but I always- I always actually g-
going back, when you lived there, I always thought that I knew
**anon** better than I knew Manchester, because I never re- I never
really went into Manchester in- I suppose in me early twenties I- I
didn’t go- we didn’t go night- clubbing or into the bars in
Manchester, and I didn’t work in Manchester so, I mean, it wasn’t a
place that I actually went a lot, whereas **anon**, because you know,
we used to go down I suppose with **anon** and **anon**, **anon**, and
then you lived down there and, we’d played, you know, like we played
golf that time in **anon** and we’d been to the theatre in **anon**
and we- we been erm, y- you know, t- to various places, I just thought
that I knew **anon** better than I knew Manchester, but I would- I
would’ve lived there, I don’t know what erm, whether I would’ve
enjoyed it, I suppose it’s difficult, I don’t know whether I’d’ve
enjoyed it as much as I’ve- I enjoyed the time I spent here, it’s
diff- very difficult, to- to say, but I mean I would’ve EOS I would’ve
been happy staying there and I did- I did enjoy the times that, that I
went down when you were living there, you know, I mean we EOS yeah, I
was- I was saying the other day actually, do you remem- do you
remember cos you were saying about camping I was- I was saying about
erm, do you remember when- when we- when, erm, **anon** had that
caravan on the front lawn EOS and we s- and we stayed in it that
thunderstorm, and he let those fireworks off outside EOS do you
remember that, oh that was- I mean, I don’t know how old we must’ve
been then, must’ve been about bloody nine or ten or something I think,
and they had those- those bloody aeroplane fireworks, do you have a-
do y- do y- do you remember those firew- the- the aeroplane ones that-
that- that you turned- set them off and th- and they just used to go
‘whoosh’ into the air, and they’d go anywhere EOS he was setting them
off outside our caravan and we were crapping it do you not- cos- cos
we didn’t know what it was cos we were so young, and erm, w- and
what’s erm- what’s that ch- I think they- what was- **anon** as well,
wasn’t there, when we used to go out with EOS it’s got a lot of things
going on EOS yeah, yeah, we had a good time in- me and **anon** went
erm, went to Leeds- well we went to that **anon**, **anon** or
whatever you call it EOS it’s- it’s up near, I dunno, it’s just on the
outskirts of Leeds, but it’s- I think it’s erm, Leeds’ only five star
hotel EOS and we went and it was- cos it was our wedding anniversary,
which you forgot by the way, never mind EOS yeah, never mind EOS next
year, next year EOS there’s erm- oh I’ll tell you another thing, I
don’t know if you remembered, it was **anon** birthday today EOS oh is
it tomorrow? oh good, me card’ll get there on time, cos I sent a card,
did you send one, don’t think you did EOS oh did she EOS I’ll change
the calendar cos I had it for today, but that’s only cos Dad told me,
he says ‘I’ve sent a card’ s- he said- he said, ‘I’ve sent a card to
**anon**’ EOS no but he said that, no but he said- he says, ‘I’ve sent
a card to **anon** from everybody in Manchester’ I thought, ‘thanks
for telling me, A, you’ve sent a card, and B you’ve-’ I mean EOS yeah
but he could’ve said there was- that- that it was his birthday EOS
what, ‘from everybody in Manchester’ I thought he should’ve just told
me, I’d’ve sent me own card, I don’t wanna be part of ‘everybody in
Manchester’, anyway, I was saying about erm, the hotel we stayed EOS
this five star hotel, I mean we’d booked in, erm, for like a massage
and- and us- use of the pool and everything, and erm, but I think it
was about sixty quid for each, for the- for like- for one night, but
you got erm, like I say, you got a spa treatment, you got a massage in
there, we got dinner, which was thirty quid a head anyway so EOS which
was in there but erm, they t- they t- w- we had a look on it, the
cheapest bottle of wine on their menu, was thirty five quid EOS and
they had champ- they had champagne on the menu, three grand EOS yeah
we- well EOS no, well we actually- well we wanted a bottle of wine so
we- so we thought well, the cheapest EOS is thirty five quid, erm, so-
so we had to have something, so I thought we’ll have that one, but
erm, we actually took a bottle of champagne with us, so we drunk that
in the room before we- before we erm, before we went, so, well, before
we went down for dinner so that was- that was quite good, so we had a
good evening there, but erm, and then on the way back, I don’t know if
you, we went that’s- we went to Todmorden market, Todmorden and erm,
Howarth, Howarth is, erm, where Emily EOS erm, oh and the Bronte
sisters EOS it was alright, it’s a bit tacky but, erm, there’s-
there’s like a main, I suppose, their main street which is just like
up a hill, it’s- it’s a bit erm, like a cobbled street, going up a EOS
it’s diffi- it’s difficult to describe what it’s like, like one of
these Devon holiday villages, you know, where the- the houses on both
sides but like EOS t- tacky shops I- I would call it selling- selling
EOS yeah, mugs, you know like w- How- Howarth mug and- and then these-
and erm, like, bric-a-brac and this, ooh, int- in fact there was one
good shop, I m- you’d’ve loved it, it was like, erm, s- selling
memorabilia and stuff like, you know EOS but they had- they had erm,
like some old, like old games, and they had like, Thunderbirds
annuals, and they had Doctor Who annuals and there was, erm, they’ve
got some, erm, like si- oh they had loads of like vinyl, and I had to
I was going through the y- you know, c- no but- nah, well it’s- too
tight you see stuff in there but I mean yeah but, I had a look, but it
was all books, and it- but it- I mean it was- it was a n- that- that
was about the only sorta shop I liked in- all the other ones are, you
know, lots- lotsa cafes trying to EOS sorta like out do each other
with- f- for what they’re selling for lunch and for their dinners and
teas and coffees and- and whatever else, but erm, I could- it was- we
didn’t stay too long there, coup- couple of hours is long enough but
we just had a- a wander up the high street and- and there’s like erm,
I suppose a not a woollen museum, but you know these places that sell
tweed jackets and local brew and things like that, so we- we nipped in
there and and just had a look around and got summet from- went the
tourist information centre, got a map, went round the churchyard where
the Bronte sisters were- were buried and EOS sort, cultural- yeah EOS
yeah, that’s- that’s about my limit, in fact we walked into the park
and the- and there’s a map of the park that goes, ‘you are here’, and
we looked at the map and we went, ‘I can’t be’ EOS ‘walking down here,
shall we go’ EOS yeah, so we, so we sort of, we sort of left there,
and then we went to Todmorden but they had erm, they had that like a
some stalls on there selling EOS all lo- well not local stuff, but
like olives and- and sun dried tomatoes and bloody, pickled garlic,
and all that sort of salady stuff and then there was a- another store
selling, bloody home made pies and, a bit- bit better than Urmston
market, you know, if you’ve wanna buy a plug at Urmston EOS that’s
about- that’s about- bout your limit really isn’t it EOS yeah, yeah,
buy- buy summet from Marks and Spencers, yeah you’ll be alright, so
erm- my friends at school, at school, I suppose- I suppose **anon**
shouldn’t hear this but- yeah, I was gonna say, I me- I- it- I suppose
I suppose I’d’ve been seventeen, eighteen may- maybe a bit younger
than that- than that and there was **anon** EOS and there was **anon**
as- as it was and erm, I don’t know his- whether he still lives up
there, there’s **anon** do you remember **anon** EOS you wouldn’t
know- no, **anon**, there was John Ward **anon** EOS right- it- I
don’t- I’ll tell you- I’ll tell you a- it- I’ll tell you a story about
**anon**, he’s do you kn- do you remember somebody called **anon** EOS
cause he- apparently he’s not very- he’s in- he was in hospital not
long back with some alcoholic problems EOS which is a bit of a shame
cos he was nice **anon**, but, I think erm, I- I don’t know he- I
think he sort of ended up living on his own, whether he’s in a flat or
something I don’t know whether he ever got married or was divorced or
something but I- he’s- he ended up coming in **anon** a lot EOS so
erm, but anyway I heard from, well, it was **anon** brother, **anon**
that- that send us- send us a text saying that **anon** was in
hospital EOS it’s a shame really cos I mean he can only be what- how
old will he be, forty-nine, fifty EOS you know, I mean it’s- it’s no
age at all, although I know quite a few- well I know three or four
people that have died through EOS problems, but yeah my childhood was,
I mean I suppose that that was EOS like you say, **anon** EOS and erm,
with **anon** and, erm, there was **anon**- **anon**- **anon**,
**anon**, erm, who was the lad who used to live opposite? I can’t
remember- I can’t remember who he is now, I’ll come to him in a minute
EOS that was- that was one, **anon**, and we just used to, I suppose
there’s nothing really to do EOS erm, we went to the, erm, **anon**
youth club a few times erm, but again you see, the trouble with that-
that- that, again, there’s- there’s- there’s quite a few rough EOS
people for in- went in there from like I suppose it not the coun- oh I
mean, you know, if you say ‘council estate’ it sounds EOS but I mean
it’s- it’s- it- it- you know, there’s people like that, so I mean it
wasn’t actually it was alright but I mean if any of them went you sort
of felt a bit intimidated by it- by various things but, and then at-
at school I mean, I suppose, some of me friends- I didn’t really have
that many- I didn’t really have many- lots of friends, I mean there
was **anon**, but again he- he used to live near us, **anon**, who
used to live near us, yeah, but I suppose some of that was, erm- yeah
but I mean, I used to play football for- when I first started at- so
that’s a team of people isn’t it EOS so yeah, you got- you got eleven
to start with EOS and I- I- I suppose erm, I suppose maybe I did,
maybe I did go out a bit more in the evening, but I mean it wasn’t- I
suppose it was more hanging round the street, then- then- then doing
anything you know, it wasn’t, like o- you know, other than Saturdays
playing football ‘til I packed that in EOS cause I used to smoke in
the bike sheds and that was- that was the other social calendar,
wasn’t it, yeah EOS who’d you meet round- round the bushes, having a
fag EOS yeah so erm, so that was my social- social events EOS
**anon**, where did he live? Can you remember where he lived? cos you
played a couple of- I mean didn’t you play the civic centre with your
band and hats? where was that? Did you play there? I don’t remember
that, I remember the- go on why, why do you remember that? what,
cheering you on? yeah but I used to, you see, that- you see that-
that- you see that was it you see, I was- I was very proud, and I’ve
said this to you before, I was very proud of you being in a band, and-
and the fact that y- y- you know, you play- ah, I mean that’s- that’s-
I suppose that’s brothers for you isn’t it, one’s good at one thing,
one’s good at the other, but I mean I suppose, deep down I- I don’t
know, I just used to like going to watch you play and I-, you know,
telling people say, ‘oh, me, you know, you know, me brother’s in a
band, come and watch’ cos I mean, I remem- remember seeing you, like I
say, at the **anon**, and- and **anon** and even when you were in your
band in **anon** tha- that was erm I have still got your CD up there,
aye, we’ll show **anon** the pictures after EOS so we’ll erm, so I
remember that, so who else- I- who was- was it **anon** that was in
your band EOS don’t remember that one EOS who was the guy who pl- who
was the lead guitar at the front? can you remember his name, that m-
was that **anon**? I can’t remember EOS whatever happened to your
drums? What happened to your- what happened to your dr- what happened
to your drum skin? I bet, yeah, yeah EOS and I, like I say, I mean I
didn’t have- I didn’t have loadsa friends but they were- they were
just sort of EOS I think- I think in later days I think **anon** I
mean I spent a lot of time with- with **anon** if you remember, and
then he moved up to bloody Hebden Br- not Heb- somewhere up there,
Hebden Bridge or something he met- he met **anon** who was about
twenty years older than EOS with a- with two kids, which erm, when
you’re twenty I suppose that was appealing for him EOS you know, which
is- but erm, he erm, I dunno, we lost touch then, and I’ve- I’ve not-
I’ve seen his brother a few times, he lives in- no, his younger
brother, erm, **anon** EOS well **anon** was your age EOS **anon** was
the year younger than me, and then there was **anon** who was a
different- who had a different Fa- in fact I think they were all
different Father’s, I don’t know, but, he had a- he had drugs prob-
he’s another one that had drugs problems so erm, that was- that was
that I suppose, erm, did you have a favourite teacher at school? Going
on about school no EOS who was that? oh, I don’t remember him EOS so
it w- eh, go on EOS I was gonna say, cos quite a few of the teachers
at school were quite, I think, Victorian, cos they were older weren’t
they, it was- yeah, and he- yeah, and then- and then there was-
someone probably it- yeah EOS he was quite- I mean this is it- cos I
mean, when **anon** says about her school and they used to call them
by, you know like, **anon** or **anon** or **anon** something, I mean
ours was just, surname- it was just your surname they used to EOS but
they- they- they- I don’t know, they- it was very, I think disciplined
was- was the word, I mean it was a boys’ grammar school, I suppose, it
wasn’t mixed or anything but it was- it was just very Victorian in
its- in its outlook at school and, you know- no, it wasn’t, no EOS
well that’s it I mean- oh yeah, I mean the- I think- I think like you
say, I think the schools tend to be a bit more- I think they treat you
more as people than they- than they ever did when- when- when we were
at grammar EOS you know, I mean, like you say, you were saying about
your favourite teacher, I think my favourite teacher was a PE teacher,
cos I didn’t, you know, it was like PE EOS wa- wa- wasn’t sort of like
ball and ch- it’s not- wasn’t work, if you know what I mean, it was
EOS there was only- there was only- they had a he gave me EOS I
remember he gave me some lines once EOS I remember he give me some
lines once, and I did them, I did them with that self-carbonating
paper, do you remember, Mum had some self- carbonating paper that you
just- well you just wrote on it and it would carbonate on- onto the
next EOS oh he did yeah, cos he caught me and it wasn’t- wasn’t-
wasn’t hard t- to notice that one but erm, we did that and then, erm,
I can’t remember what I had to write now, but I remember- I remember
him but I just- I just quite enjoyed, like, PE, cos I suppose that was
the football bit, and I just couldn’t cover the- cover the proper
subjects couldn’t do- couldn’t do them at all so when are we- just erm
EOS I’ll have to come round to yours again with me- with me guitar and
me amp, like we said, we’ll try and do a bit a- are you working- what
you working next week, I know what you’re saying about EOS no, I’ll
just- give us erm- if you give us a shout about that we’ll- we’ll try
and have a- we’ll try and have a- have a look at that, have you been
busy at work or not too bad EOS oh, you’ve not been in have you EOS
right, when d- when d- they expect that to be- is that when you’re
moving? oh right a- yeah, are they closing the other one completely?
yeah, we go away on the erm, oh, is it ninth of September EOS we’re
going to erm, Portugal and don’t ask me the- the somebody asked me-
somebody today asked me the- asked me the name of the resort, and it’s
summet like, ‘Cos’ or summet- summet like that, I can’t remember EOS
just me and **anon** yeah, cos **anon** and **anon** have- well,
**anon** been to Corfu with- with **anon** and EOS **anon** Dad, and
then **anon** been away with **anon** and then they’re b- going to V
EOS so, I mean there’s just no- I mean th- we- we couldn’t’ve had a
summer holiday this year with them anyway because of all the different
things that were going on, so we just didn’t have time to do it that
way so I mean, me and **anon** said ‘well, we’ll try and book a week
when- when they’re back at- at Uni or- or back at school’ EOS well we
haven’t, that’s one of the reasons why I picked Portugal, or- because
there’s that and- and Greece, I wouldn’t of minded going to Greece cos
I mean **anon** and **anon** have been EOS and you’ve been and that
was another one, we said that or Portugal EOS so, it was just a- a
matter of, ‘well, where do you wanna go’ so we- we sort of just went
on the internet, and erm, look- looked up some apartments, found an
apartment and then **anon**- we booked some flights, it’s not too
hard, it’s about- think it’s about six hundred- it’s about six hundred
quid EOS think so yeah but- yeah, but I think it’s cos you go out of
school holidays EOS then it’s- you know, it- it- it works out that
little bit cheaper but we’re not gonna- w- we thought about hiring a
car, for n- you know, to drive up, but I- I don’t know, cos **anon**
had a look and even that’s summet like two and half hundred quid or
three hundred quid for the- for the week, and you think, ‘well’ EOS
you know, if you got a transfer for- for seventy quid that gives you
two hundred and fifty quid t- to maybe get some taxis or something and
EOS and the fact that we’re only going for a week, well I mean you’d-
you’d spend the first three or four days looking round the- oh, the-
we- well yeah because I mean they’re always have trip to the EOS you
know, erm, I d- I dunno, they either go to an aqua park or they go to
EOS you know, some- s- some building or- or like you say, the next-
the next town- town along the- the beach EOS so there’s always that so
we- we- we decided that we’ll probably just get a transfer to the- to
the resort and then just see how it goes, but, **anon** and **anon**,
you know **anon** and **anon** who stayed in EOS they we- they-
they’ve been to this resort, well, about six years on the trot or
something, so EOS so we’ve sort of like took a recommendation EOS
yeah, so we’re gonna do- we’re gonna do that but- but this is our-
this’ll be our- our first holiday without either **anon** or **anon**
EOS just me and **anon**, so that should be- that should be- that
should be interesting shouldn’t it? we’ll get- we’ll get bored after
three days EOS be like that, oh yeah, bought some books, we went to
charity shop and bought some books, when we were- when we were away at
this- this weekend, oh I tell you what else we- we- we bought, have
you ever done that- that race night? those- you did- you did- well
it’s- it was funny because it was **anon** that, erm, that mentioned
it, and we went to this charity shop while we were out and they’d got
a brand new EOS box of- of this race night for two pound ninety nine,
so I thought, oh for that, I th- well it’s- it’s where you’ve got erm,
they have erm, like a DVD of EOS th- they have like ten or twelve or,
I dunno, how many horse races on EOS and they give you a- all the- all
the little slips, and y- you bet on who you think’s gonna win EOS so
they’ve- they’ve got like at the first race might be, I dunno, the,
you know, the Dean Morris handicap or something and it’ll have all the
horses on it, and it’ll say favourites this two, or whatever, and then
you just- you just bet on it, and if yours wins or comes second or
something, y- you win the money EOS oh yeah, that, yeah, yeah, they-
they put like erm, I mean s- some places have used it for- for like
fundraising EOS haven’t they, you know, like, we’ve been to one at the
scouts EOS where they- where they do it and- and you know, you bet
real money on it, put a quid on- on a race, and they use it for
fundraising, there’s quite a few people do it for that, but it’s just
something interesting, I mean you can have a- a few people over, few
beers and some snacks, and, I mean that’s what- that’s what you did
wasn’t it? and erm, you know, have a few snacks and just- just have a-
have an evening of it, but erm, who- who won the most money when you
did it? three hundred, yeah, can you imagine that in your own money
EOS but you’ve got a thousand p- I- I- we- we opened the box and we
got like a thousand pound note or something, but erm, I- I just think
it’d be quite erm, quite fun to do that EOS we had erm, I remember
years ago we had erm, I had a little games night here for different-
just for diff- I- I mean, this is for adults and we had like erm,
wiggly worms EOS have you seen- as- as one of the games we did, and
there was- there was a few like, really daft silly games but I mean
EOS we- we sorta split people into teams EOS or we did girls and boys,
I can’t remember now but, erm, and we had the- all these like little
daft- daft g- I mean it was actually quite good fun because I mean, me
Dad loves like playing daft games as well EOS same as you like going
to- oh, I love connect four EOS yeah, well I’m gonna- yeah, you have
to just- got one in there, that and tetris, I like tetris, cos that’s
a similar sorta game isn’t it EOS for- you have that on erm R game boy
EOS game boy that was it, yeah, I remember now that’s right, I’ve got
one of them upstairs, got **anon** gameboy colour or something EOS
yeah, haven’t got tetris on it, but erm, what was the other game you
were saying about erm- yeah, oh, but they’re all on like you’re arcade
games aren’t they, have you- have you bou- have you got your Xbox
sorted out yet? or did you buy a game for that? do you play it? do you
play it? is that a new one then is it? no, it’s ridiculous that isn’t
it, have you been in Game in Manchester then? Ask for a second hand
one EOS oh right, oh we’d- we got erm, you got- you got erm, that erm,
guitar for that erm, guitar hero from there didn’t you, did you get-
yeah, a few years back EOS and erm, and a game I think it was, a
second hand one EOS that’s- that’s right yeah, yeah EOS that was it
EOS yeah, s- saying about erm, I forgot what I was gonna say then, I
was gonna say something about erm, about another game we played on our
games night, and I can’t- I can’t remember what it was, there was
wiggly worms and there was another one it’s- hungry hi- oh that’s-
that’s a good game as well, hungry hippos, but I’ve got- I’ve got ups-
I’ve got erm, Kerplunk EOS erm, you were saying about connect four, I
haven’t got that upstairs but erm, I can’t remember what we were
playing the other day, it wasn’t Ke- oh I tell you what, that’s one-
another thing that reminded me, Cluedo, it- there was a question in
the quiz, in the pub, he says, ‘where was- where was Cluedo set?’ have
you any idea where Cluedo was EOS and I t- I- oh it’s- oh it’s set in,
yeah, it’s set in this like stately home or something, but I text
**anon** EOS ‘can y- can y- can you tell me where, erm, where Cluedo
was set’ cos it’s under the- we’ve got it under the cabinet in the- in
the hall and he- and he looked through and he put EOS ‘it’s- it’s a,
erm, Tudor manor’ or something, I went, ‘no, look, it’s like, set in a
Tudor manor’ EOS ‘it’s not the name of it’ yeah, it doesn’t say- I
don’t know how they- how anybody knows it, cos it doesn’t say anywhere
on the box EOS or in the instructions, where it’s set, and it’s
Arlington Hall EOS so just remember that for your quiz, summet- well
it might- it might do yeah, Wikipedia EOS be on- be on there won’t it
EOS I- but this- this is what I thought, I thought I wonder if
somebody has just made- just made that up, because it doesn’t say on
the box EOS or whether it says on the- on the later ones I mean I- I
don’t erm, I don’t- I don’t know so erm, I was gonna say as well yeah,
about erm, different games you can get a ‘Kiss’ monopoly, have you
seen that? yeah, I saw it- I saw it on erm EOS might’ve been on kiss
online or something EOS no I just thought cos it was probably about
two hundred dollars or EOS no, have you? I bet you have EOS I bet you
have EOS and what was it called? oh, I don’t know EOS do they have
full- do- do they have full episodes on youtube, or is it just mainly-
I’ve never really been on youtube that much EOS it’s f- it’s funny you
saying about erm, not being as funny as it used to, we’ve erm, we got
‘Life of Brian’ you know Monty Python EOS I don’t know if you’ve ever
seen it EOS but we- we- I think- I think I hype stuff up too much EOS
cause I’m going, ‘ah, it’s great, it’s great, gotta watch this,
**anon** it’s dead funny’ and but when you put it on, then **anon**
and **anon** are sat there like that EOS oh that Spamalot, yeah that
was EOS well, that was- that was a mixed bag of- of like erm, I don’t
know if you’ve seen any Monty Python, but Monty Python- there was
Monty Python and the Holy Grail, Life of Brian, and EOS Monty Python
live at Drury Lane, I think they’re- they’re- they’re like the main
ones, and they’re- and it was written by Eric Idle, I think Eric Idle
wrote Spamalot, he was one of Monty Python, so he’s put a lot the,
sort of ‘in-jokes’ in this EOS and it’s- and it’s- it’s run a bit more
like the Holy Grail EOS sort of storyline EOS of it but- but so I th-
you’ve- you’ve- you’ve got to know quite a few of the in j- you’ve-
you- you’ve- you’ve got to have watched the DV- the- the film I think,
to really enjoy it, although there’s- there’s certain things in it
that we thought **anon**, you know, he’d like that, and then when
**anon**- you know, would find that EOS and different things but it
was- it wasn’t rib tickling EOS it wasn’t like, belly laugh out loud a
minute, all the way through it, but there was some, there were some
bits in it that you thought, that’s, you know, that was quite funny,
and it was good entertainment, but we went- we went in erm, it was
good entertainment for- for an afternoon, and we went with **anon**
and **anon** so I mean that was, it’s just nice, and we had- we went
in erm, before- do you know where- do you know where- opposite EOS
have they, I’ve nev- I’ve ne- I’ve never been, yeah, well that’s it
you see EOS I’ve only heard of that on rock radio EOS cause they go on
about, sometimes, erm, they have like pre- pre concert parties there
and erm, so, we’ve never been in so- so **anon** says, ‘oh go on, have
a go in Walkabout’ and we went in there, and I’ve gotta admit, it’s a
bit of a shit hole isn’t it EOS I mean, the seats are r- have you ever
been in? oh, th- this, I mean it’s- is it- I don’t know exactly- is it
like just a cheap and cheerful place t- to drink EOS and are- is it-
do they have rooms there or something, is there places you can stay? I
don’t know, but the s- you know, we sat on these seats and you
thought, they’ve been ripped, and the, you know, I’m not saying the
floor was sticky but, it wasn’t quite as bad as that but EOS y- you
thought, no, this is- this is not- have you been in- did you say you’d
been in it? that’s about enough EOS yeah, but yeah, I suppose it- I
suppose that by- but it’s funny you said about Australian because I
remember, on rock radio, they were saying about free, I dunno, free
beers or something or, you know, come in fancy dress and you- you can
have a bar tab or something like that, I can’t- I can’t actually
remember, but it was actually erm, I- I don’t know, I didn’t quite- I
didn’t, it wasn’t busy but I just thought I wouldn’t, it’s not the
sorta place I’d erm, HELLOone, two, three, one EOS that’s not right that EOS oh yeah, I suppose
it is EOS I was gonna say, mm, yeah EOS and what was that like? is it
any good? that’s not a concert EOS you’ve been ripped off Noel
**anon** EOS did the ceiling EOS ceiling is done and the s- that dado
rail’s done EOS un- undercoated, erm EOS then we moved the furniture
so we can get in and do some EOS stuff tomorrow and EOS I mean, it’ll
be done in a room and- it’s been done, went to B and Q as well, so EOS
plaster is fine he’s EOS **anon** done that flashing, then he’ll be-
be alright EOS well, he was at some point yeah, so if that’s been done
then EOS yeah, and he wants to come to my house and all EOS and I
knocked his head in EOS yeah, I think- erm, no, he’s not working with
you tomorrow I don’t EOS I think **anon** gonna carry on painting EOS
do some stuff EOS then I think he’s with you on Thursday or something
EOS oh is it, Friday then EOS Friday I think EOS but I mean like, once
that ceiling’s done, I mean there’s nothing to those walls in that
room EOS to be honest EOS no, I hope so EOS I’m working tomorrow and
then I’m working Friday and Saturday, I could maybe do that during the
day or something EOS I’m not working ‘til five I think EOS I think I’m
working at five EOS well, secondary school Noel **anon** EOS well,
**anon** oh dear EOS no, I was very good EOS unlike you, Noel **anon**
EOS I was ver- I was very good at school, and I think there was a lot
of pressure from Mum and Dad, well, certainly from Mum to do well, erm
EOS why? cos I think **anon** had done well at secondary school, so
because I think she was classed as intelligent, I was expected to
follow suit, erm and I didn’t think I could erm, kind of do that well
really, and it really used to bother me, that I wasn’t intelligent
enough and I was really quite scared about not going to grammar school
EOS and going to a secondary school but, in the end of the day I’ve
got the qualifications and I suppose won’t, so I think there was some-
not from outside or from the school, I don’t think the sc- the school
or friends or neighbours really cared about anything but I think EOS I
think it was Mum who- for Mum it was important that you- or I think
for me, my standard was- was to study and do the right thing I think
EOS no you didn’t, no EOS well you never went EOS I was good at- I was
good at most things and some stuff I wasn’t EOS I think if somebody
had actually turned round and said, ‘it doesn’t really matter
sometimes’ EOS ‘and you can mess up and you don’t have to get great
grades and that’s still okay’ then I think that would’ve been a good
thing, but EOS it was kind of never really said so, I think you’d- I
just EOS I just wanted to do well and I- I mean I didn’t mind staying
in and studying, I think, you know, I was perhaps a bit more introvert
than EOS in some respects EOS well I think I preferred the books EOS
rather than the football, and the physical stuff, no EOS erm, Leeds
was good, about half an hour before I met **anon** she’d split up with
her boyfriend EOS so erm, that wasn’t a good thing, erm, but yeah it
was good fun, we went for dinner and- it’s an Ir- Irish Wetherspoons
EOS very ch- very cheap EOS so we went there cos we had no money EOS
one meal for about three pound fifty or something EOS so that was-
that was good and had a walk round Leeds EOS nice sunny, vibrant city
EOS caught the train EOS about fifteen pound EOS fifteen pound an- an
hour’s journey EOS every twenty minutes EOS so that was good, I
enjoyed Leeds EOS as a city? erm, well I don’t know Leeds- I don’t
know Leeds well enough EOS yeah, to know whether I’d- I’d prefer it as
a city EOS but I mean I think you could say that Manchester’s- most
people would say that Manchester outside of London, is erm, probably
the- the- the second capital of the UK EOS so many people want to
study here at University, so many people would come here for work I
think, erm, nightlife, social activity EOS for a big city, it’s very
vibrant EOS you got all your quarters, from the gay village to EOS the
Chinese quarter, to the Northern quarter, to expensive shops from
Harvey Nichols to, little cafes and restaurants and everything so it’s
a place I think young people would want to come EOS erm, and good
transport links as well EOS but I think- I think Leeds is- is- is erm,
kind of a clean and modern city as well EOS I don’t think Manchester’s
threatening at all EOS what, when something’s kicking off? that’s
probably burnt down Noel **anon** EOS I mean somebody’s- somebody’s
torched it I should think EOS do I prefer it or EOS do you want me
just to compare them? I think that is a really difficult question,
because I have a very big history down in **anon**, and there are
things that I miss down there, erm, it’s a tourist city it’s- it’s got
money EOS erm, I- I- I EOS well no, it’s- no you’ve- you- y- you- your
main- your main employment there is the University, that- one of the
top ten Universities, and there’s the international students bringing
in money EOS into a city, it’s a heritage city with a Roman archit-
ar- it- it- it- some money is constantly be- being brought in EOS erm,
developments are kept to a minimum, you know, everything has to be
rubber stamped with the council of listed buildings and that, erm a v-
a very bohemian city, erm, very small and compact, I mean, you know,
you haven’t got the EOS infrastructure like Manchester or the- the
vastness of choice, erm, but I would say you also don’t get a lot of
your social problems that you possibly would in, you know, in- in a
large- a large city EOS and perhaps some run down areas, erm, around
Manchester EOS which you just wouldn’t get in a place like **anon**
EOS well would you’ve ever lived in **anon**? If- oh yeah, I- I
enjoyed all those moments as- as holidays down there EOS as a family,
erm, with their being countryside and a very different kinda- kind of
vibe to it EOS yeah, I remember those EOS I was a so I perhaps didn’t
know what it was or something, but, oh, **anon** and **anon** EOS
yeah, but they were good people, you know, they weren’t erm, they were
nice people to be around EOS but I mean I can’t- you know, f- for me
to have- I would- I would live in **anon** again, no problem, erm, but
the reason I can’t is because I’m now priced out of a market, but, you
know what, you have a choice, you can either live live in perhaps a
very nice EOS and not get too much out of a job or something else and
you have to weigh up your job, and your friends, and where your family
is, of a- of a bigger picture of maybe what life is gonna EOS gonna
give you or what you’re gonna get out of it EOS erm, and there are
things that I- I- I miss a lot about **anon** but there are things
that I’ve gained by moving away from it EOS erm, and as a city, I
probably would not EOS wish to live in Birmingham, I w- wouldn’t
really wish to live in EOS erm, or possibly, you know, Edinburgh or
whatever, erm, and I think London is too big EOS I mean it’s too
expensive, but it’s too big EOS whereas a place like Manchester is EOS
it’s got a lot of things going for it EOS never heard of it EOS I did
forget, yeah EOS I never remember your annivers- oh yeah, so it was-
no it wasn’t, it’s tomorrow EOS oh well I thought, no EOS erm, no, but
I did speak to **anon** and she did say it was Thursday EOS I was
trying to get her- to buy- get a drum kit or something for **anon** or
something EOS well, good for him EOS he was gonna do that for **anon**
as well EOS I said it was a very- I said I was a very good idea, and
carry on Dad EOS what for the- for the night EOS gosh, that’s not bad
EOS that’s terrible Noel **anon** EOS did you buy it? not the
champagne but the EOS money to burn EOS what’s that like? the Hovis
advert EOS oh right, yeah EOS did you buy anything? you should’ve got
that Thunderbirds book EOS at least you’ve done some cultural stuff
EOS no, can’t be arsed EOS yeah, or some- what was your friendship
group like as a- as a child then? you used to have more friends than
me though EOS you were more outgoing I think EOS was yeah, well it was
for you EOS or the top of the road Noel **anon** EOS I think most of
mine was based around the band, you know, a school EOS I mean I- I had
two or three quite close friends I think, erm, **anon** was quite a
EOS close friend and probably erm, **anon** or something, the artist,
who I quite liked- I can’t remember and I think some of the- some of
the people from primary school carried over into secondary school so
EOS there was a kind of known following, you know, when- once you kind
of got to EOS secondary school erm, and people either got along or
fell out but I suppose I just joined bands at that point, school bands
and local bands, and they became friends and they became people that
EOS socialised a bit more with as you got a little bit older EOS I
think so, and I played somewhere in Urmston, **anon** EOS why do I
remember it? Erm, I think because you- you were shouting so much that
you couldn’t speak afterwards EOS and you’re just hoar- you’re voice
was so hoarse EOS yeah, and I can’t think what garbage we played but
we must’ve played a lot of EOS I know you was EOS but I was actually
very proud of you playing football, cos I could never do that EOS oh
right, that’s good that EOS there was **anon** and, **anon** EOS I can
only ever remember about two people anyway EOS bet they played scout
huts and stuff like that EOS oh that, the drum skin, the painted drum
skin? it followed me down to **anon** I took it to **anon** and I
think I just had a big clear out one day and it got in the skip EOS I
really wish I hadn’t skipped stuff like that EOS but it- you know, I
think things were alright, you know, I- I was just more of a- a bit
more of a recluse and a loner I think EOS I’d quite enjoyed staying in
and playing records and- and stuff and, just having two or three quite
close friends and the music EOS I don’t- I just don’t think I was
particularly outgoing to kind of go crazy, you know, oh that’s it,
yeah EOS yeah, yeah, I’ve seen him, **anon** EOS oh I think I missed
**anon** I can remember **anon** EOS I- well, y- well, I suppose- I
suppose I did in a- in a- in a strange w- I suppose I had a favourite
teacher EOS and I had erm, a probably not so favourite teacher, my
favourite teacher- I did have a favourite teacher, erm, because he was
EOS I think it was **anon** EOS he was a Maths teacher but he just- it
sounds very silly- silly or stupid at that age, but he just came
across as very caring EOS he didn’t come across as erm, a kind of
teacher in a way EOS so I think- so I think I kind of liked him for-
for that reason EOS not particularly for the subjects he taught but
just because he seemed a caring bloke EOS oh they were, I mean that
Russian teacher was just, you know, a sadist wasn’t he EOS banging on
desks and throwing chalk at people and EOS pulling your hair and being
really quite obnoxious and nasty EOS it- it’s no wonder somebody took
a either a knife to him one of EOS a fist or something EOS because-
because they weren’t- they- they were EOS but it wasn’t over fun
either was it, I mean it was I suppose you were there kind of to study
and you towed the line EOS and it was kind of Victorian but, I suppose
the teachers who were there perhaps had grown up in a slightly
different era even to what we- we had done EOS and I suppose it, you
know, **anon** and **anon** now have a very EOS cause it’s a lot more
open and- was that the little short arse guy EOS he had glasses didn’t
he EOS what was that? oh they must’ve known Noel **anon** EOS I can’t
remember what I’m working- I’m working next week EOS it’s wri- it’s
written at home but EOS just come over with your amp and erm, we’ll
have a jam around or EOS not for the last two days I’ve not been there
EOS erm, but yeah, it has been busy, we’re moving buildings EOS in
four weeks EOS it’s seventeenth September EOS so that’s gonna be a bit
of a nightmare EOS well, it’s gonna be rented out to somebody else, so
we won’t have any kind of dealings to do there, so it’s gonna be EOS
very much a different job and EOS different vibe and erm different
building so it’s gonna be really weird I think EOS you’re away soon
aren’t you? who’s going, is it just you and **anon**? I’ve never been
there EOS what for the- just for the two of you for that EOS that’s
not- that’s not bad, three hundred quid for EOS you might spend half
your time just in the car EOS oh well, it seems pretty good if
they’ve- got a recomm- recommendation from it EOS that is so unfair
EOS just take plenty of books EOS what is it? have you even played
that connect four? I used to love that, I wanted a little travel
version of it, they had it in Sainsbury’s EOS it’s better than a
computer EOS I have bought a game but which one I bought EOS I bought
an arcade classic game, which had a few pacmans and space invader type
things on there EOS I’ve just made that clear Noel **anon** EOS erm,
and then I bought a zombie game, where you’re in this shopping mall
and you can just blast the hell out of a load of zombies EOS and then
there was a racing game which I thought **anon** would probably get
off on called ‘split second’ but, I’m waiting for that to come down to
twenty quid rather than forty cos EOS I’m not paying that EOS but I’m
not- I’m not paying forty pound for a game EOS I’ve been in- I’ve been
in it- in it but, erm, again their prices aren’t that low on some of
the new releases so EOS at some point EOS yeah, I think I did, yeah
EOS yeah, that was for **anon** wasn’t it EOS was it- it was set in a
house wasn’t it EOS did he know or google it EOS well if you turn it
on to google what do you think it would say, do you think it would- do
you think it EOS do you think it would come up and say EOS ‘this is
where Cluedo is set’ EOS I know you can get one but I’ve never seen it
EOS where was that? well, have you bought it? have you got an account
with Kiss online? I wish I had EOS I wish I had EOS I haven’t got an
account with anybody, Amazon, that’s the only account I’ve got but EOS
I- I- talking of old th- old things Noel **anon** there was a DVD on
Amazon called ‘Kate and Allie’ which you would not remember, it was
from nineteen eighty four, and it’s- it was set in America, it’s
about- and it had Susan Saint James in it, she was the like, top
actress in America and like, both of them were divorced, and had two
children each, and they were all- they had to sort of house share, and
it ran for about five years, and it was my favourite programme
throughout the eighties, erm, and they’ve got a box set in- ‘Kate and
Allie’ EOS and there’s a box set, erm, and it’s finally was released
in Europe erm, in February this year EOS and it’s fifty quid EOS for
the whole of this- this- this series, but you have to order it EOS and
I’m so tempted to EOS but I don’t know whether I find it funny, you
know after such a long time, but I kinda think I would, or I kinda
think, oh what the hell I’m just gonna blow fifty quid and s- see what
happens, you know what I mean EOS yeah I could maybe do that EOS and-
and- and see that I’ll type- I’ll type that in EOS what was that play
then like, that Monty Python play that you went to EOS was that any
good or was that just rubbish? oh yeah, that’s w- yeah, **anon** and-
**anon** and, erm **anon** have been there haven’t they? It’s
Australian EOS right, yeah, I’ve been in EOS well yeah, it was a bit
EOS summet kicking off in the corner EOS I’ve been in it just once
yeah EOS and it was- I mean I suppose on a Saturday night it’s gonna
be packedone, two, three, four, five EOS Right. That’s an interesting one. My
mum was born **anon**. My dad was born in **anon**, which is
Manchester. But his parents- er his father was from **anon**, and his
mother was from **anon**. Yeah, so my father was sent back to **anon**
when he was a boy. And he could speak **anon** fluently. Er, **anon**.
It was when he went back to **anon**. No to learn **anon**. So they
came back, I think me mum was nineteen. And it was before the days of
air travel. So they came on a boat. That’s where they would have
landed, no, but the family had moved to Manchester by then. It was me
Granddad who-. Yeah that was my Granddad, but then he came to
Manchester. Cos even in those days it was a little bit rough, I think,
in- in Liverpool . Yeah so he came to Manchester, and was first in
**anon**, before they moved to **anon**. And that sort of diagonal
side to Manchester really. Yeah, so what about your parents? Just- ju-
. It wasn’t a laundrette, a laundry EOS It was laundrettes what put
them out of business EOS Well she went to the same school as my elder
brothers and-. Well, me older brother and sisters. So they all knew
each other. Erm p- probably the first. There was another family
further into **anon**. but that was bit later. A little bit older than
**anon**. And I think your Auntie **anon** was a little bit younger
than **anon**. Well they all went to the same junior school. No right
channel EOS Yeah and **anon** did. Everything was okay then. No, this
is a good one for you. Did you move house at all when you were
younger? And what memories do you have of this? You moved a few times,
didn’t you? Yeah, you moved house three times didn’t you? Well I
thought there were somewhere before that. No but I thought- I though
there was somewhere before **anon**. Yeah it’s a history lesson as
well. So you won’t remember much. No, about the move I didn’t think
you’d-. That’s when you used to go caravanning, wasn’t it? They moved
when I was a baby and I don’t remember that. Well there was me and my-
my brother and sisters. Mum and dad, cos me dad’s-. Seven with mum and
dad. But because there’s a fourteen year gap between myself and my
brother, and then another two years between my sister **anon** and
another two years between my sister **anon** EOS they had sort of
grown up and moved out. While I was quite young. Er **anon** was at
university while I was about five or six. So they effectively had
moved out when I was quite young. So there was me and my younger
sister **anon**, mum and dad, my dad’s sister, Auntie **anon** and my
dad and my Auntie’s father, granddad, who lived there. And he was the
boss. Granddad was the boss. That’s right. And your Auntie **anon** I
think. Oh yeah, none the worse for it, oh definitely. yeah but we all
loved him to bits, and- But er- anything we wanted to do, or go
anywhere, we had to ask. You know I didn’t ask my dad, cos he’d say,
‘ask your granddad.’ EOS Yeah only- I only saw me dad coming in from
work in the morning, off his night shift, cos he worked permanent
nights for about twenty five EOS And he came home about eight o’clock
in the morning, had something to eat, went to bed, I’d go off to
school, come back, he’d be getting up and then off to work. only
really saw him at the weekends. I never saw my grandma. Yeah. That was
me dad’s mother. But I- I saw a lot of me mum’s EOS who lived a few
streets away. No, no, no she came home. No I don’t know how she
managed it, but she managed to get her over to England in the-
probably the nineteen sixties. And she was quite elderly when she came
over. So didn’t speak very much English. But still managed to get to
the shops when she could, while she was mobile enough and able to-.
While she was able to get to the shops and buy a few things. Fun,
round here? I know it’s no corner shop but- Yeah we’ve used all the
sports centres, the swimming baths. Maybe not- not public transport as
much as we should have done. Yeah they played for local football
teams, local swimming club. So there is plenty to do, if you want, if
you look for it EOS Yeah it’s- it’s very EOS It’s only a few minutes
from Manchester. Traffic’s never too bad. Apart from a few days near
Christmas. But generally, getting into Manchester’s quite easy, yeah
EOS If you can get in. Not generally, don’t think I’ve- So what about
school? about your memories of school? They were bullied by the
teachers or the pupils? It was like half a pint wasn’t it? Did you-
did you drink it? Oh I- I used to hate it. ahh, but it was warm and
horrible EOS I used to give mine away. It was alright in the winter,
but in the summer it was just-. Oh they’d never get away with that now
would they? Cos you knew which side your bread was buttered didn’t
you? Well my school was called **anon**. Which is the school your-
your mum went to, and your Auntie **anon**. Er, it was church of
England erm, juniors and infant school. But prior to me going, it was
also a secondary school. For- for kids up to the age of fourteen I
think, in those days. Er but that stopped when my secondary school,
which was **anon** opened EOS That’s when you were born. And I w- I
started there in nineteen sixty seven, I think. Yeah, and it’s now
being demolished. because it’s built on the edge of Barton Moss, which
is like boggy and peaty. And it was sinking EOS And it was built in
the early sixties and not very well built. And a lot of the erm the
walls had been kicked in at times EOS it was okay when I was there,
but apparently years later it was really tatty, so it’s being
demolished and it’s now **anon**. Very er- But the estate it’s on has
got a lot rougher since- since I was there. And it’s so bad buses
won’t go on the estate at night now. And at one time it was a really
nice-. Sort of showpiece council estate. yeah, but- yeah but I was
quite happy there but it wasn’t a very academic school, and in the old
system of CSEs, it’s before GCSEs. We all did the CSE course EOS and
if they thought you were good enough, you did a little bit of extra
work to get you through the O-level. But it was only really designed
to scrape through EOS Which I found out when I came to do A-levels and
it was, ‘whoah!’ EOS Yeah, massive leap cos I’d only really done CSE.
So yeah then A-levels were a big- big jump. Yeah, so that was the big
difference between- say the grammar schools now and -. yeah and with
the eleven plus they do round here, at least if you go to **anon**,
you’re still doing the same course. As the people at the grammar, so
if you apply yourself, and stay clear of the ones who don’t want to
work, there’s no reason why you shouldn’t do well. No, not at all
really. And the junior school I went to erm, didn’t do any practice
papers for the eleven plus, which I know they don’t do now, but erm-.
Parents are aware of practice papers and things. But in those days,
some schools did practice papers and- and half the class would pass.
And like, ‘what? What’s that?’ EOS Well one person passed. One person
passed in my class. No right channel EOS And she’s now a top barrister
in London. So that’s how clever you had to be. Right channel resumes)
EOS But their parents owned-. Yeah their parents owned **anon** at the
time. Cos they sold parker pens. Er they probably came on the bus.
There used to be the number twenty two. cos they lived near **anon**.
And the bus used to go from **anon**. Yeah they do now. But there w-
there was a lot- it was fifty-fifty, those who went to EOS it was
fifty-fifty, if you went to **anon** or **anon**. But it always
annoyed me because this **anon**, it was always me or her who were
top. Yeah. And then-. Yeah that was what I was saying, her mum and dad
had this posh paper shop and they- they probably knew about practice
papers and things. the good old days, yeah. yeah, because me, her and
three other girls skipped a class between the infants and the juniors,
we didn’t go in to what is now year EOS We went into year four. They
used to- used to- they used to do daft things like that, like, ‘oh
you’re clever enough to go into year four, you don’t need to- you EOS
Yeah, when you learn your tables and things like that. But that’s what
they used to do. And even though we weren’t at the bottom of that
class-. We were somewhere near the top, but not at the top. And it was
weird, you know, splitting us up from all our friends, and then you
make new friends and-. and, that’s how I got to EOS Who I used to go-
I used to go to the match with. Cos he was in that year above, yeah.
Yeah, and I think it’s because of that. Yeah well it probably started
off-. knowing **anon** and a few others. Then we went to the same
secondary school so I- I was back in my proper year. A lot of me
friends were in the year above, but I was still friends with- I was
still friends with kids in my year. So I was friends with both. And
then I go to know others. In the year above, like **anon**. People
like that. And then h- with the other people, I think you’re probably
thinking of **anon** and people like that. Who’s like three years
older than me. But all that came about through volleyball. Which we
used to play at our school, because- cos our maths teacher played for
England, at volleyball, so we were the only school who could play it
properly. Us and **anon** and **anon** and we used to play them. So
that’s how I got to know people like **anon**, **anon** who went to
**anon**. And **anon** who went to **anon**. And when we all- when we
all left school we all got a team together. So we were quite a
different you know erm, wide ranging age group. And pretty much kept
in touch up until the last few years, when we’ve got married and had
kids and-. Yeah if there’d been things like facebook you know like
fifteen years EOS It would’ve been a lot easier. Yeah and mobile
phones, and texting. Cos it used to be having to rely on letters
didn’t it, and- An expensive phone call, if they were abroad. Well I
think where they are in Vancouver, it’s on the edge of the EOS And
it’s supposed to be really, really nice. It’s- It’s **anon** uncle,
actually. Yeah now there’s a story. It’s all the macdonald’s, kfc
isn’t it? Pizza hut. But it’s lazy people who dri- go to the drive
through isn’t it, and they just eat their food. And they’re too lazy
to get out aren’t they? And I- and I can’t understand why whole
families eat in the car, when they can go inside. Well it’s- it’s like
that at Disneyland isn’t it? everywhere scooping litter up. Well I
think Canada’s got a smaller population than Britain. yeah, and it’s-
I think it’s the second largest country in the world, isn’t it? Yeah.
Well this question here’s just reminded me of something. Did you ever
get into trouble for something at school, were you ever blamed for
something that wasn’t your fault? Well I was blamed for EOS It was at
lunchtime, and then you c- you could go home for your lunch if you
wanted, or you could stay at school and I went through periods of
doing both. So it was o- on one of my supposed-to-be going home for
lunch EOS When we used to go to the chippy. We went to the chippy and
just for something to do we walked round the estate got onto the
school fields in the far corner. There was a gate there, it wasn’t a
problem, walked across the school fields, back to school and the
headmaster was wait- waiting for us. And it was, ‘you boys! You’ve all
been smoking!’ EOS ‘No we’re not!’, ‘Yep you’ve all been smoking,
there’s no other reason to be on the fields at lunchtime.’ EOS So we
all got the slipper. Cos he was a real bully. So when my dad found
out-. No you kept your trousers on! It’s not ‘Tom Brown’s schooldays’
or whatever EOS Yeah the nineteen sixties, not the eighteen sixties!
So er- my dad went bananas. Rang the school up and-. No I think my
granddad might have died by then. But my dad rang up and said, ‘if- if
the- if our Bruce **anon** wants to smoke, he can smoke, he’s got my
permission.’ EOS Yeah. Cos me dad was heavy smoker and it- it wasn’t
a. , ‘oh well, that’s alright, ah, thanks, I’ve got the option EOS No,
tried a few but didn’t like them. It was **anon** mentioned it. Yeah
you’d have thought he might have had something against you as well,
being **anon** sister. So hence, your spelling’s quite good! Etched
into the er- . Yeah that’s the trouble isn’t it at infants and
juniors, you’re just stuck with the same teacher for a year. And
they’re stuck with you if- if they feel the same, Oh yes they always
had a tweed jacket. A bit portly. He sounds just like **anon** who we
had at **anon**. Who your Auntie **anon** remembers, he was er- our
equivalent. He had a choice of slipper, it was pu- it was pumps,
slippers, there was a few EOS Yeah he used to run the tuckshop, and it
was behind him, in his little room behind him and he was- he was
supposed to be teaching and he was just tucking in to Jammy Dodgers
and things like that, yeah. Well he was- but then he left and went to-
after I left, he went to **anon** school in Swinton. No **anon**
Junior school. but I think he’s lived round here somewhere,
apparently. Yeah don’t know if he’s still alive, he must be well into
his eighties or nineties now. But yeah. Definitely old school.
Wouldn’t be you, would it? There is- there is no friendly kind of way.
Bit posh that! Because they were wood. Better be careful hadn’t I? Oh
so that’s why we got one is it?count to five EOS yep, that’s fine EOS Off you go EOS oh, that’s good
Right channel resumes EOS You moved to uni as well didn’t you? oh,
right, okay EOS yeah, you can EOS I think it still does EOS oh yeah,
yeah. yeah, that is weird EOS which one to choose EOS No, I’m- yeah.
didn’t like it EOS Oh okay yeah.yep, one, two, three, four, five EOS So Bruce **anon** where are-
where are your parents from? mm, it is! Mm that’s interesting isn’t
it? yeah and then what about- how did he meet your mum then? To learn
English? To learn- sorry to learn **anon**. To Liverpool, is that
right? Am I right that they were-? But didn’t they start off in
Liverpool? you’re Granddad, right, yeah. Well mine are very boring
compared to that. They’re actually erm, both from **anon**, which is
now classed as Salford. And erm interestingly, erm, certainly my
mother erm, grew up close to your brothers and sisters. Just down the
road actually. From- in a place called **anon**. Well **anon** and
then **anon**. Well actually my father actually was probably more from
**anon**. Wasn’t he, really? So me mum and dad actually lived fairly
close to each other. But went to different schools, there’s seven
years between them, so erm- they didn’t really meet up until er- I
think me mum was in her early twenties then. Although they only-
didn’t really live that far down the road from each other. Erm but
getting back to my mum, erm. What it was with my husband’s family, er
they owned erm, **anon**, in- Well a laundry, sorry EOS Get the words
right. In **anon** and- Yeah it was the laundrettes that put the- yeah
so the laundry- so all- everything was hand washed in this- and erm-
and that’s- and they were very erm- had a good reputation. And so
obviously my mum knew about the laundry, don’t know whether she used
it or not. yeah, they were quite- quite a well-known family, **anon**.
Because I think- are we the only **anon** family there? At the time?
But sort of in that vicinity, they were probably the only ones. So-
and with you having that laundry, erm-. And yeah, getting back to my
mum, she went to school with- was she the year below **anon**? Or
above **anon**? I think she was a year above EOS She was in the year
above **anon** and erm-. Yeah. So me mum’s sister was at school with-
she went to **anon**- no she didn’t did she? They went to the pri- the
same- yeah, she went- yeah but me nan sent her to **anon**, so she
went there EOS So there’s quite a lot of er family links. And when I
met Bruce **anon**, my husband, erm when I told my mum I was going out
with this lad and said, ‘he’s part **anon**’ and he- he knows you from
**anon**, my mum said, ‘oh I wonder if it’s the **anon**- one of the
**anon**? Oh crikey! Well I hope so cos they’re such a lovely family.’
EOS And I said, ‘oh right okay, well, I’ll ask him what his surname
is,’ cos I think I’d only been on one date with him, so I didn’t know
what his surname was. And as it turns out it was **anon**. And so then
erm- he was introduced. Everything was fine, and then when Bruce’s
**anon** mum found out my- the origins of my family, and I was one of
**anon** erm granddaughters. ooh, lovely family, so everybody was
happy. Right, so erm have you lived any- . go on then! Why- why’s that
a good one? When I was younger? No I didn’t! I only moved from
**anon** EOS No, my Mum- Oh are you talking about- it’s my childhood
is it, or? When I was younger- no but I went to live in **anon** when
I was eighteen, but- that was . No, mum and dad, after they got
married, my mum and dad went to live in erm- on **anon**. They lived
in a house on **anon**. But then once- then they moved to **anon**, on
**anon** and that’s when they had the chil- the thr- the- the three of
us there. Yeah cos **anon** was a baby when we moved to **anon**. Cos
it was a three bed semi and it wasn’t big enough, so that’s when they
were-**anon**, where me mum and dad live now. Used to be a big old
like manor house. Called **anon**, and that was demolished. And
**anon** bought it all and- and built all those houses. Erm but left
all the **anon** trees round it, that’s why it got its name. And so we
moved there and I think-. I was six when I moved there. **anon** was
one, yeah. So I- oh I remember it, gosh. Yeah, what do you mean? Oh I
can remember it, yeah, oh, god yeah I can remember it. Mm, it was only
down the road. I did, yes. Don’t think that’s on the list. Yeah we
used to go caravanning, yeah, that- but that was when we lived at
**anon**. So er used to leave the caravan on the drive. And my mum
hated it. yeah she used to dread it so we got rid of the caravan in
the end. Well we sold it to me friend’s mum and dad. So erm- well you
didn’t really move round very much, you stayed in one house. And your
house was interesting. Right. But the house you lived in and were- was
brought up in. Was a big terrace on erm, the main road in- in
**anon**. And you had a number of generations of families living in
the same house. Do you want to talk us through that? So that’s how
many, five to start with Five children, younger EOS oh, seven- oh
yeah, yeah. Mum and dad that’s seven people. Oh he was. And he was
called **anon**. yeah, **anon**. And he ruled, and I know this because
of my mum. Because my mum erm also, as well as going to school with
**anon** they were quite big church goers, and Bruce’s **anon**
family, the **anon** were church goers and they used to meet up at
church and **anon** and me mum used to sing in the same choir, didn’t
they? And Auntie **anon** er, my mum’s sister. And er- and so she knew
of the family – obviously, they knew the family well. But they knew
about this granddad who-who was like sort of very traditional values.
And ruled the house quite strictly, didn’t he? And they were all very-
well they weren’t- well you had a great deal of respect for him, you
weren’t particularly- were you frightened of EOS Oh yeah he was
frightened of him then, so . And also, wasn’t your dad- he worked sh-
nights. So you didn’t see your dad that much. You probably saw more of
your granddad and your EOS Yeah, so really- yeah, so that’s probably
why granddad- cos he’d be retired then wouldn’t he, granddad? And- and
your grandma-. Oh did you not, oh she passed away before- oh right,
okay. Oh right. Yeah you did, yeah. she lived around- yeah, cos now
that was an interesting thing, because your mum’s mum erm- your mum
went over to bring her back EOS Am I right? Oh I’ve got it all wrong.
what are we looking at- Crikey! Wonder how she got here then? mm, aye,
she lived round the corner, didn’t she, In the big family EOS Hmm,
shall we get onto this- how long have we been at it? oh, erm what fun
things are t- are there to do in your community? Well, we got the
Trafford centre. That’s the- the biggest thing, because er- since the
Trafford centre’s come along, there’s lots of- it’s my-. I think it’s
great fun cos I like going shopping! So it’s like- if you like your
shopping, it’s a woman’s kind of er- what would you say? Well it’s my
hobby, going there. And er, what other things? Well we don’t often
walk into our local shopping area, but we did the previous Saturday
night, didn’t we? And we thoroughly enjoyed it, but noticed how mu-
noticed all the improvements in the local town centre, but realised
how much more needed to be done. It was kind of half finished, so erm,
but we’ve got sports centres, and I did used to belong to the local
gym and I’m not any more EOS And really over the years, we have used
all local facilities. Haven’t EOS Used all the sports centres and- No.
No, but we use the park, we used the park a lot when the boys were
younger. Oh it’s all there. It’s ideal where we live, because it’s
erm- it’s in a good area, isn’t it? For erm accessing services really.
Walk to most things can’t we? Yeah walk into Urmston, get the train
into Manchester. Cos we’re not on- quite near the- near enough for the
tram link yet. Yeah. And we got some nice local restaurants, haven’t
we? yeah well, yeah, I didn’t finish my story about the other EOS When
we walked into Urmston, thinking we could just get into a restaurant,
thinking, ‘well nobody really goes out in Urmston,’ and it was very
deserted, all the streets, but all the pubs and the restaurants were
jam-packed full EOS And we were pleasantly surprised weren’t we? Cos
if we go out we don’t tend to go local, do we? Generally. Not
generally, we’ve always gone out somewhere into town, or to people’s
houses or whatever, or stay in and entertain with- So, there EOS What
about school? Well I’ve got really erm, happy memories actually, of
school. But erm, certainly from when I went to **anon**, and yet I was
quite shocked when I went to a reunion, quite a number of years ago,
ooh crikey, it would be probably about seven- no maybe longer, maybe
ten years ago, I went to a reunion. And there was about sixty-odd of
us all at the Urmston cricket club, all who’d gone- some of us had
stayed on into sixth form, quite a lot had left in the fifth year, cos
in those days, er late seventies early eighties, not everybody was
encouraged to stay on. So quite a lot left in the fifth year. Which is
year eleven. And erm- and I was quite shocked at all those who had
left, they’d left cos they were so unhappy. Yeah. They hated the
teachers, thought they were weirdos. And erm, they couldn’t understand
why we’d all stayed on. And erm- and I was shocked that when they were
telling me about being unhappy, cos we were dead happy there. And- and
I was quite shocked at how many were bullied. I was sh- I was
absolutely shocked at that. Cos I was never once bullied. And I’m not
a bully myself, I wasn’t doing the bullying EOS Teachers and other
pupils. Mm, cos it was an all girl’s school when I went there. Erm
but- not that that’s any excuse but er- I was- we came away quite
upset actually, for some of them, I couldn’t believe it. Prior to
that, I went to **anon**, and **anon**, and my memories of that
school-. Are that- of that long passageway from the infants to the
juniors and EOS And it’s bizarre, because erm- couple of years ago
when me younger sister had **anon** er- we were trying to get him to
sleep at night and I said, ‘oh I’ll t-’ we were at my mum’s, who
lived- me mum lives quite close to the school, and I said, ‘oh I’ll
take **anon** out in the pram,’ so I thought ‘oh I’ll- I’m gonna go
down **anon** and have a look at me old school.’ EOS And it was- it
was a real sort of funny feeling going down there, and I was looking
at how it had all changed, I couldn’t believe how different it looked.
The- the actual original building’s still there but they’ve added on
and-. Changed the playground a bit and- and all me memories came
flooding back. And the first thing I remembered as I’m- as I’m
approaching at the bottom of **anon**, and going left onto the
passageway, erm I just remember I felt really big, this- I felt really
tall, this big tall EOS Because when I was last down there, I was this
little tiny person, and the passageway looked so big and- and long.
And yet it was just a tiny little pass-way- passageway really. It
wasn’t anywhere near as- as big and long as it was when you’re little.
But what I instantly thought about when I looked at the main entrance
of the junior school was- was always the smell of sour milk EOS and
bottles that had been kicked over by the boys football. And what it
was, we used to have milk delivered in glass bottles, and EOS Yeah
small bottles of milk. And the lads were terrible for the football and
they’d kick it around and it’d eventually get kicked at the- the milk
bottles and they’d be smashed all over the front. Milk everywhere. And
it was warm as well, when it was delivered into EOS it was warm, and
we drank it. See I- I think I quite liked it, cos it’s creamy. Oh no I
think I er- I think I drank it. Yeah didn’t mind it. But it was that
smell, I could smell it the minute I got to- to th- to the erm- the
passageway where the school is, I could- I could even smell the milk
EOS yeah, yeah and then I walked round to the infants and that just
seemed so tiny, that entrance. I just remember the school- I looked at
the- the erm the door to the entrance, the infant entrance- well it’s
all in- sorry the younger end and erm, I just remember when you walked
through those doors, the cloakroom was on the right and then there’s
this long corridor with the classrooms off it. And the hall on the
left. And erm I just kept thinking about all the teachers and erm-
there was a teacher there apparently, I think she must’ve been the
reception teacher, called **anon** who apparently, me mum said used to
absolutely adore me. I had this big round chubby face that was always
red EOS and I used to come back with lipstick all over my face where
she’d been kissing me, apparently. Can you believe that? No they
wouldn’t, they wouldn’t. And erm, I couldn’t say **anon** and I used
to call her Mi- **anon**. . So erm, that was my r- early recollections
of erm the infants and juniors. What about yours? Oh that’s when I was
born. gonna say it’s bloody sinking! . Yeah, betit is. It’s where the
cemetery is, have you ever been to the cemetery at the end of the-?
**anon**, at the end of the motorway there, the erm- yeah, if you’re-
you’re gonna be cremated basically you go-. Well actually no, burials
as well aren’t there? Bit of a big leap from that to A-level, mm EOS
he hadn’t done GCSE standard. So yeah then it’d be too much, wouldn’t
it? Cos there is now isn’t there even? Cos really they help you so
much more I think with your GCSEs EOS and then A-levels you’re not as-
you don’t there’s a big step up EOS you’re still- Yeah and you’re
still gonna do well as well aren’t you? You can do well can’t you?
That wasn’t encouraged then. At secondary school. Oh God yeah, yeah
mm. So when you saw your eleven plus paper, that’d be the first time
you’d ever seen one. I mean, it doesn’t matter how clever you are, you
can’t do it can you, unless you practice it. Let me stick this light-
oh sorry but I can’t move! Sorry, it’s alright I was just gonna put
the light on. her younger sister was in-. **anon** was she in the year
above me, I think at **anon**. She went to EOS I think she went to do
mechanical engineering. Oh thanks, yeah. They’re really clever girls
anyway I think, aren’t they? Oh did they live in Eccles then, and come
on the coach down to the EOS Oh yes, right. So- so don’t they have a
special bus for them- coach for them from Salford, don’t they? Cos I
remember that starting. Yeah. Ah yeah right, okay. Do you think she
did practice papers then? Oh, they would have known about- how
annoying. And they never told anybody else. Yeah, cos it seems a bit
of a coincidence that she was the only one EOS Why would they do that,
that’s silly? so you missed a whole year? Oh that’s ludicrous! Mm, it
is terrible that. mm, what a shame. Oh right was in the year above? Oh
right. You see you’ve always had friends that have been older than
you, haven’t you? I’ve noticed that, you know, even now I’m thinking
of **anon** and erm- actually **anon** the same age, isn’t he? Erm
those other blokes, I mean a lot of them have moved away now, but when
I first met you, a lot of your friends were older than you and I- ‘oh
I used to go to school with him but he was in the year above, or the
year above that.’ EOS So that- I wonder if that’s why? But your
friends were in the year above, yeah, it’s a shame isn’t it EOS Oh
it’s **anon** yes, yeah. He’s quite a bit isn’t he, yeah. You did,
yeah. Oh gosh, yeah, mm EOS Mm, oh they were clever lads weren’t they?
I know, and also we- we’ve lost a lot of friends through divorce, cos
of- you know people like **anon** split up hasn’t he? Quite a lot of
them have er- well they’ve moved abroad, I mean **anon** and **anon**
who we’re really friendly with, and they went to live in Canada, I
remember feeling dead upset when they went away and it’s really hard
to keep in touch with people. When they move away as well, and then
obviously if they split up it sort of becomes awkward then EOS because
you don’t know EOS which one to choose. Yeah probably would’ve stayed
in touch with them better really. Yeah. You remember to go on it and-
Yeah that’s right. Yeah, I mean it’d be nice to go to Canada and see
**anon** and **anon** wouldn’t it? Although I don’t really fancy
Canada. I mean, I know we did Niagara falls last year, that was only
touching into it a bit, but, I don’t know it doesn’t really- there’s
nothing about Canada that really appeals to me to go to, like- I like
America where you’ve got- seem to have so much there to offer you. So-
it’s got everything hasn’t it? Well that’s it, it’s probably my
ignorance really. I know it’s supposed to be really clean. Cos I know
when **anon** and **anon** have been over- **anon** been over more so
than **anon** EOS but he always says when he- cos he’ll always- cos
his parents live on EOS so if he’s home he’ll always come and see us
EOS and erm- cos you remember he knocked at the door and **anon**
didn’t know who he was? So **anon** had this funny conversation with
him and he said, ‘oh come and wait for them, oh, wait in for them,’
cos we were out. It’s **anon** uncle. And erm **anon**- **anon**-
**anon** didn’t sort of- ‘well who are you, I don’t really want to let
you in my house,’ EOS he’s, ‘oh just wait for them,’ yeah. So- yeah
so- so but when erm, **anon** was last round here a few years back,
she- she said, ‘I can’t believe how dirty Manchester is.’ EOS They’d
been out in the city centre and she just said, ‘there’s just rubbish
everywhere, it’s just filthy.’ EOS An- and actually funnily enough,
last night when I went to take- yesterday when I went to take that dvd
back to blockbuster, it’s absolutely filthy round that area where
blockbuster is, the back of macdonalds, where people have just thrown
all the fast food sh- They’re just- there’s bins there and the people
just throw it, now you- I must admit even in A- where we’ve been in
America, you wouldn’t EOS It’s for being back- back- back in New York,
but- And they just chuck it everywhere. I know and they just- they
just chuck things out and but sort of o- like **anon** said in Canada,
there’s just people constantly clearing rubbish up all the time. and
there’ll be parts of Canada and America that are dirty but she did say
that when she- when they moved out there they couldn’t get over what-
how clean EOS everything looked. And spick and span, and- And- and-
and when she comes back she notices how dirty Manchester seems to be.
It’s more spread out as well. I think erm-. We’re more highly- densely
populated, mm. Yeah. So you obviously had a lot of friends didn’t you,
when you were EOS Yeah we had a lot because I’m one of four girls and
we used to share EOS cos we were all fairly close, you do that with
sisters. So- and it- it’s interesting cos even erm- when I went to me
elder sister’s fiftieth on Friday, I was telling them at work today,
they were saying, ‘how did you get on?’ and I was saying, ‘oh it was
really fun,’ you know, and some of them, the fifty- fifty somethings
that were there, you see I’ve known them for donkey’s years really,
like EOS Cos **anon** used to share a flat with **anon** and- and
erm-. I just remember erm- you know, I used to go out with her as
well, we- so we, you know, we’d share friends. And erm, and like
**anon** my best friend now, who’s really good friends with **anon**
isn’t she? She- you know we’ve always been like that. Cos we- we-
although my sisters are like me- me sisters are like my friends as
well. And erm so we sort of erm- we know about each other’s friends as
well. And erm, and ask about them. And er, yeah. ‘I’m telling you, you
ha- you have even if you haven’t.’ EOS Was that on a bare bottom as
well? Oh right, that’s alright then! Well we’re going back a number of
years, you know EOS Not granddad **anon**? his Dad was EOS But you’ve
never smoked, have you? No, thank goodness, yeah. Actually that- it’s
made me think of something, about **anon**. We used to get the ruler,
the girls got the ruler and the lads got the cane EOS from **anon**.
Who was the headt- well he was deputy head when I was there and then
when I left I believe he became the head for- for a long, long time.
And erm, my elder sister **anon** particularly didn’t get on with him,
he used to pick a lot on **anon** for some reason. And I remember at
one parent’s evening erm-. Me- me dad- well they’d gone to parent’s
evening, they’d been to som- some problem between this teacher- I
think actually- sorry at the time he was- I don’t think he was even
deputy head, this **anon** he might’ve just been- just a general
teacher. And there’d been some incident with me sister, I can’t even
remember what it was but I just- I just remember erm me mum telling me
that at parent’s evening me dad just threw a wobbler and got him up
against this- teacher up against the wall, and was like just about to
thump him one. And, ‘leave my daughter alone, you know I’m sick of you
picking EOS Cos I think he really did, he just- you know when some
teachers just don’t like certain people he just didn’t like our
**anon**. And erm and he- in fact he- he- I think he’s died recently
he’s been- in fact he has, because-. Yeah **anon** told me. Who’s a
builder, you know **anon** and erm, **anon** EOS **anon** was in our
**anon** class at- at junior school and- and EOS again rec- cos when
he was doing the building work on our house, we were having
conversations and I found out erm it was **anon**- he was in **anon**
class and I said, ‘ooh did you ever come across **anon**?’ and he
went, ‘**anon**! Oh God he was awful I hated him.’ Apparently he used
to have- this is awful what they used to do, teachers in them days.
Erm- he didn’t just cane **anon** cos I think **anon** was quite
naughty. Erm he used to make **anon** sit at his desk- at the
teacher’s desk and **anon** would have to do all his work there. And
if he dare lift his head up, he apparently had a erm- erm what do you
call it? Ping Pong bat with a face drawn on it- this is the teacher,
and he’d crack him over the head with it every time he lifted his head
up. That was **anon**. And then I remember erm bumping into **anon**
and he told me, ‘you’re never gonna believe it, that B-duh-duh-duh-
duh-duh’ EOS ‘has died now.’ EOS And it was in the paper, but he lived
‘til he was- I think in his EOS And he lived I think off **anon** in
Flixton and we used to see him going up and down the road and our
**anon** erm, went to **anon**. And she set off obviously me mum and
dad’s in **anon** and she had to- she’d have to pass him every day and
she used to think, ‘oh I hate you!’ you know, after she’d left, and-
Cos he used to pr- practically bully her really. And erm absolutely
hated him. I had no trouble with him he was alright with me and I
think the other two he was alright with, **anon** and **anon** don’t
think they had any trouble. Yeah, no, well I think after this incident
with me dad about to batt- He- he was- he- he wouldn’t have any- we
were fine after that. Mm, I was gonna talk about something else then
but er- I forgot- ooh so I’m just coming onto like corporal punishment
really because what we- what we did- we- you know you have a spelling
test oh well we still had spelling tests in them days. And then say it
was out of ten you know, depending on how many you got wrong, erm
you’d have to line up at **anon** desk. And you would get thrashed
basically, so if you got five out of ten, you got five lashes of the
cane, and five- that was the lads, and the girls would get the ruler
on the back of their hands five times, or dependent on how many
spellings you got EOS And that was a regular thing, wasn’t it? That’s
why I’ve got- really have good spelling actually, cos it was the
thought of getting the ruler. But I can only remember erm, a black
girl who was in my class called **anon** I’ll never forget her. And
erm her brother was in I think the year below or couple of years
below. And they- both her and her brother were adopted, and she had
white parents. And again, they lived actually on **anon**. And she was
absolutely terrified of **anon** and I always remember one day she
just- you know I think she just freaked out if she ever got the- the
ruler. And she cheated in this spelling test and she- she’d actually
written the spellings on her desk. Cos we had wooden desks in those
days EOS and you used a fountain pen. And er anyway she’d- she’d
obviously done surprisingly very well in EOS and he was obviously
suspicious, so we all went out to play and then obviously he was
snooping round and he saw these spellings written on her desk. Yeah.
Oh I’ll never forget it, it was awful, and he made her scrub it with
bleach and everything and-. Oh it was just awful. Yeah, you lived in
fear really you know. Mostly you did. But then I went to the grammar
school and I was quite- you know, I had quite a happ- happy time there
really. I mean I don’t think I particularly had an unhappy time- I
think I had a very happy time in the infants and I think going into
juniors was fine until we had this particular teacher. I think
generally it was him. Yeah, yeah. I think I-. I know I don’t know how
he ever got the deputy- well he was deputy head when I was there and
then he got the headship after I left. They were probably frightened
to not give it him. To be honest. Mm, still see him now, he was one of
those blokes, sort of balding with a bit of hair either side, like a
bit of a mad EOS Always had a tweed jacket on. Yeah with patches here.
Portly, absolutely short and portly. And he just looked like that from
the minute he started there from- from- and I presume from when he
left. He just never looked any different. One with nails sticking out
just so it had a bit of . Oh really, **anon**? Oh a junior, right. Was
that a private school? yeah, mm, I’m just looking here about having to
help out around the house, erm this is funny. In fact I was telling
them, they must think I’m a bit of a nutter at school- at work sorry,
cos I- I dunno how we got onto this conversation, this was last week
and we were talking about sisters and things and getting on with
families and stuff and I said ‘I can remember when erm, when the four
of us- me and my three sisters, were all living at home, in- on
**anon**. And erm I think the younger two are a bit too young at the
time t- to have to help with chores so it was me and **anon** and we
used to have to erm, wash- we didn’t have dishwashers so we used to
have to wash and dry and put away. Now the person who washed up,
washed up and that was it you could get out of the kitchen quick but
the poor person who had to dry also had to put away. And guess who
always ended up drying and putting away cos she was a bit younger than
the older bossy sister. yeah, it was me and I can just remember just
getting so fed up she’d rush into the kitchen start washing up and I’d
get in, I thought, ‘here I am again, I’m having to dry.’ And then
she’d you know, hurry up do it much- obviously quicker cos it takes
longer to- to dry and then put away. She’d rush out and carry on doing
what she was doing, watching telly or whatever. And I just remember
one day she was washing up and I’m drying the knives and I got a knife
to her EOS But you know in a sort of friendly kind of way. . And I was
just getting it and say- getting- cos we used to have steak knives as
well so actually it was quite sharp actually, it was a very sharp
steak knife. With er- a brown wooden handle, erm cos the reason why I
remember that is when you were washing up you weren’t allowed to put
the handles in the water. Because they were wooden. Yeah and you used
to have to hold them like that and- and clean the- the stainless steel
edging. So, I just remember getting it and saying, ‘I’m fed up of
having to dry and put away I’m fed up, you’ve got to let me wash them
all’ EOS ‘wash the pots for a change! Or I’m gonna tell mum and dad,’
like EOS I think it did work, I seem to think having the knife there
perhaps EOS did help a bit. Yeah you just keep loading the do-
dishwasher up Bruce **anon** you’reyep, that’s fine EOS when you’re ready EOS it- you can see why EOS u-
up until fairly recently when the house had st- my Aunt- me Grandma’s
house, me Nanna’s house had stayed in the same family, it was erm, her
daughter and husband who ended up living in the house, and then me Mum
had been there for a long, long time EOS already in the road really
EOS ahh, that’s nice EOS yeah, that’s right EOS someone said erm, the
Beatles played at Chassen Park apparently EOS I’m not sure EOS it was
interesting EOS yeah, they are EOS so is it painting? oh yeah, that’s
right, I remember, yeah, that’s nice EOS so is it of the internet EOS
or just computers or?You need to count to five. And Veronica **anon**. Yeah that’s fine,
okay off you go EOS where are you going? oh my God EOS What was your
detention for?One, two, three, four, five. go on, it’s gonna be horrible this EOS Er
were there lots of kids with you when you were playing up? Playing up,
growing up EOS Oh that’s- that’s nice EOS what was the best or
funniest memory from when you were young? I don’t think erm- I don’t
remem- remember having much memories of when I was a kid actually. I
genuinely don’t, I think I took too many knocks on my head when I EOS
just going, peddling and peddling and peddling. I used to think I was
EOS So fast going everywhere, used to run everywhere. How many sis-
how many brothers and sisters do you have, do you get- Do you get
along? It’s not too bad though is it? You just argue a hell of a lot
EOS and you’re all stubborn, it’s well annoying EOS What- what did you
say? There’s not a lot to do but now like we’ve all got a bit older
and we can all start driving and stuff, we can obviously go further
away and there’s obviously quite a lot of things to do. Bit of golf
when it gets a bit boring. But no-one- no-one ever goes down with me
EOS There’s football and stuff but whatever floats your boat really.
I’m easily entertained I think. Erm are you going on holiday this
year? You said Cat- you said Catalonia. It’s Catalonia, just- carry
on! Hopefully it’ll be good weather for us. Ooh- ooh, can’t wait! Er
what extra activities did you get involved in at school? were you a
boring kid when you were growing up? No you say something you got to
elaborate on it. Erm, depends at primary school there wasn’t much to
do so I just did erm, played a bit of- dabbled in a bit of rounders
and EOS and then realised it’s for girls and then started playing
football more. And then mum used to drive me to swimming every week
and like that EOS That was later on, when she thought I was putting on
a bit EOS Bit of a slave-driver EOS Erm it depends where we went
really, like at school there was always bulldog and stuff,. and
football and catch EOS pretty boring things tig what about you? Hide
and seek? in a square playground EOS Ooh, oh right. . Ah that’s good
then EOS What do you remember from your first day at secondary school?
Or grammar whichever one. oh, it wasn’t that bad though, was it? How
would you describe erm the local people? Yeah, you know, like EOS The
dark side of the road. Come to the dark side! Oh right, okay, did- did
you ever go caravanning when you were a kid or camping? Yeah we were
hardcore caravanners EOS We were! I remember the first one we went to,
we went to Dorset and erm, in the middle of the night, this dog
started barking on the campsite EOS and we looked out the window and
there was erm- the ca- caravan opposite was on fire cos so- No someone
had a chip pan and they had a fire and they put the wrong blanket over
and it just went, ‘.’ EOS Up in smoke and the a- the awning was going
crazy and the guy was out EOS Yeah they did, obviously cos it was a
fire EOS No it was really good one, it was a good holiday that
actually, we went erm on fossil beach. Not fossil beach it’s like a
beach with all like erm clay, and erm it had like, what are they
called? The little snail things that they had. Dinosaurs, the little-
what are they called? No they’re n- they’re animals I’m trying to
think what they’re actually called. Oh it doesn’t matter. Erm I did
move house when I was younger cos I was born in Salford and- but I- I
think I moved when I was about two so I don’t really remember much of
it. But we had some- I remember showing you some videos of when I was
younger as a kid at **anon**. And mum used to have this- it used to
have towers of pots that stacked up on top of each other. And we used
to have a chair in the- like in the corner of the room and Dad used to
push the- this old pot thing and it used to roll round the chair. And
I used to be amazed by it and he must’ve been doing it for about half
an hour, I was like, just watching it go round and round, I was
amazed. Couldn’t get my hands on it I was just like, ‘no!’ Have you
ever moved house at all? I didn’t say anything EOS nice, erm what th-
what things- no, what local events do you think it’s important people
know about in your town? you know, the us- usual stuff that goes on,
you know like markets and EOS Oh like down **anon** and stuff? I’m
sure my cousin’s . Erm there’s none really round here, is there? Th-
the- did the- oh, there’s the s- skiing thing EOS that’s happening at
the chill factor and it’s quite a erm big place. Oh and yeah obviously
we have Chassen Park round the corner. And erm I think it’s every
Sunday they have erm the little toy trains that go out. The steam
trains and people jump on them and they go round. And I always think
with United being so close, I think it’s good when events go on there.
Because it’s big and it gets a lot of people EOS Do you have to help
out around the house a lot, or not? You’re made to do it though aren’t
you? My mum loves me! Feral child. I used to get spends but she
stopped that when I moved out, like, ‘no you’re not having that any
more.’ EOS No not really, I think I’m quite lucky in that respect I
just sit around doing nothing EOS and Mum runs round after everybody
EOS She always complains about it though no-one ever makes her do it.
She always does it herself. It’s every Sunday, like when you’re
finally- you know when you’re coming back from half-term and you’re
going back to school on the Sunday she’s stressing out she’s like,
‘oh- oh have you got your dinner have you got your dinner, have you
got your money, have you cleaned- have you packed your bag, have you
packed your bag?’ EOS And she gets herself in like a little panic and
starts like getting mad at everybody. It’s like, ‘chill out for a
minute!’ EOS That’s a good question EOS I don’t know, I think they
both went to erm- both from **anon** I think. Yeah Dad used to live
down near **anon**, down that way. And I don’t know where my mum used
to live. Actually my mum might’ve used to live down near the cemetery
in **anon**. And she went to school with erm **anon** dad, as well EOS
she was in couple of years below. And I think they know each other
actually. Yeah where are your mum and dad from? good on her, good on
her, all my family are from round here though actually. Like my
nanna’s from **anon** I think. I think that’s about it, that’s how
foreign I am EOS Aren’t you like half **anon** or something? does he
just- does he just walk around wearing a kilt all the time EOS That’s
a lie EOS Do you have any pets at the moment or-? That just gets like
left out in the cold EOS for no love. No I don’t, I don’t have any
middle names or anything, my parents ju- . No, no, no- no, cos like
you’ve got- you got- you’ve got pets and stuff and I just get nothing.
And like I remember when I was growing up I always wanted to have a
middle name like. I don’t know why I just thought it’d be cool to have
a different middle name EOS Cos I don’t have- I’m not allowed any pets
and I wasn’t allowed a EOS That’s how it goes. You’ve got some strange
middle names haven’t you? Isn’t **anon** isn’t she? I saw it on her
passport the other day I was like, ‘hang on a sec **anon**?’ EOS
What’s that after? See mine’d be Rory **anon** EOS Yeah thanks for
that I don’t even know what my dad’s name was actually, so- no- No my
dad’s, dad’s name, Yeah I don’t know what- I never met them, you see
EOS You- you got the chance to meet them. Which one? Which one? Er it
was okay, it was just- it was a bit of a dump to be honest. It was
like on the corner of a road and EOS you get all the little scally
mums coming with their kids with big Mac meals in the morning, in
MacDonald’s bags, it was horrible. But it wasn’t too bad, I was glad
to get away. All the kids were idiots as EOS No you hear stories like
all of them, like there’s one that lives behind me and he’s er he’s
nearly been kicked out of his house a few times. He’s been in trouble
with police and stuff. And just random stuff like that. I was lucky to
get away from it EOS I think, what was yours like? Yeah I just hated
our school cos th- you realise as you get older, kids just take the
mick out of anything. Like everything it’s unreal. I remember one day,
I w- went into school with a cold sore on my lip. And I was like- yeah
they’re horrible I know, but. And this guy’s going, ‘why’ve you got
spaghetti Bolognese on you?’ EOS I’m like, ‘it’s- it’s in the morning,
why would I be having spaghetti Bolognese in the morning? And it just
doesn’t dry on my lip like EOS I used to hate it EOS But it was nice
when everyone was obviously friendly and stuff but you don’t realise
it when you’re a kid cos you’re so naïve at how stupid people were EOS
And how easy it is to get dragged into random social circles and EOS
Like I think I was lucky going to **anon** instead of **anon**. Cos
you see all the different- all the lads that went there it’s- I know
they’re not- most of them are really nice but they’re just more prone
to danger not- or not danger but trouble. How was **anon**? How was
it? I think we were lucky with bullying at **anon**. It was always EOS
dead friendly and stuff and EOS You always thought the ha- they’re
rough people when they didn’t hand their homework in EOS Not hitting
teachers and stuff. ‘oh, you got a detention’ . Erm I’m sure you’ve
asked me this one before, but-. I’ll answer it again. My best memory.
Erm I don’t know, not fr- I can’t remember much of my life, up until
like, after year five EOS I can’t remember anything before that
really. But erm- I- I know this is gonna make me sound sad but I
remember when I was in year five and I got picked to play for the year
six football team, and I was well EOS First person to do it through
our school, and I was chuffed with that. I just EOS used to love
football so, what was yours? Just throwing each other overboard. But
with bad water EOS trying to drown each other. Did you ever get hurt
when you were fighting in the water? Rescue mission hopefully . We
never used to do anything like that. I think I remember for year seven
birthday, went erm rock- abseiling with my uncle. We went EOS that was
the only thing scary. Yeah it was pretty scary. Although my brother-
when we- when we went, **anon** came along with us and he was- dunno
how old he was, he must’ve been about eight or something, he had his-
you know those trainers you used to get with lights on, and we- he
kept hitting the bottom of his shoes so they lit up EOS for that split
second. So we’d know we were okay. But other than that it was good.
Yeah a few times, remember once when my dad’s- some guy my dad used to
work with, his kid came round for the day and we used to have one of
those plastic slides in the back. And it used to feel so big when you
were up there, but he’s a little kid who’s younger than me, and he
pushed me over the edge EOS of the top of the slide and I broke my
collar bone. Yeah, and I was in hospital obviously, I was a crip EOS
for a few weeks EOS It’s just a sling, you don’t- you’re not even in a
cast, I think it’s just a arm sling. I can’t remember though and I
remember when I was learning to ride the bike, I- I- and I can picture
exactly where it is on the street as well, riding my bike I was going
along and all of a sudden I just went- like fell on my side, and I
don’t know why and I hit- hit my head on the tree and it killed EOS
And I remember playing in the back and I tripped over and I hit my
side of me head on the little fence panel thing, the concrete fence
panel on the side of that. And my friend got sent home. it’s like, ‘I
think you’d best go home now, he’s hurt.’ He was like, ‘okay.’ I
blamed it on him, so- . Did you ever used to have kids round your
house when you were younger? At like primary school, for tea? I
remember my birthdays as a kid. Think- think the one I remember the
most we had erm- erm what’s it called now? Bouncy castle in the back
EOS and it absolutely hammered it down that night. And the guy was sat
in his van for about three hours waiting for it to die down, he was
just like this, ‘ahh’ EOS Everyone had gone home already and he was
just there for about three EOS Waiting for the weather to go, it was
good. I used to love birth- kid’s birthday parties. You used to get so
many random toys and stuff EOS yeah, little bits of cake EOS Yeah and
sweets and stuff. I remember we used to go **anon** and for dessert we
always used to get erm vanilla and strawberry cake- no not cake erm,
ice cream EOS and with erm jelly as well, oh it was horrible but it
was so good as a kid, so much sugar at once EOS did you not have any
parties like that? I remem- remember once when JJB first opened and
you know they had a little play area there? And they had the- the one
half of a football pitch and someone had- er someone invited me to
their party there, said they were having it at JJB. So I was saying to
Mum, ‘oh, it’ll be a football party.’ So I had my- had my whole
football kit on, my shin pads and everything. I went there, we were in
the bloody play area, I looked like I’d been padded up for war rather
than for playing tig in the play area. I was running round with my
shin pads on and stuff EOS I was safety proofed. oh, in Sale EOS You
had to get in those sacks didn’t you? to go in it EOS I remember when-
I had a birthday party there and you used to- you always used to sit
on there. And we’ve got a video at home and I had a stiff neck. Oh my
EOS no, I couldn’t move, I was at the end of the table like, ‘urgh!’
EOS trying to blow my candles out like ‘’ not moving my neck at EOS
But when- when they did that they- they did erm- used to play party
games up there as well. And seeing myself dancing as a kid, oh my god
it must’ve been so embarrassing. Like, ‘that’s not my kid there!’ EOS
And they used to get the inflatable slide out for you as well, when
we’d all finished and stuff EOS bouncing down feeling sick going,
‘argh!’ EOS Food coming up. I used to- I don’t think I ever went down
that blue slide. Think I was too scared. I think I might’ve b- I think
I might’ve been once. It’s like a vertical drop! break my neck or
something EOS Yeah, and then get stood on. I used to love that I
absolutely used to love it. I- I miss being a- it’s closed down EOS
Yeah, I miss being a kid when you’re- you see some stuff and you’re
just like- and you see like your toys now and you’re like, ‘how did I
play with them for so long?’ EOS I remem- yeah- I- I was biker mice
from mars and power rangers, mine were EOS I used to have a little
power rangers doll that my cousin got from erm, I think it was Russia.
And I slept with it for ages EOS and I remember when I thought, ‘right
I’m going into secondary school EOS ‘I need to get rid of it.’ EOS And
I remember it used to take me about an hour to get to sleep EOS but it
was horrible, I know EOS it’s not as bad as my brother though, when he
was in like year six, he went to the- the bear factory and got a- a
stuffed cat. that’s sad, mine was a power ranger. His was a cat EOS
Least favourite teacher, oh **anon**. Oh my god he was so annoying he
was so patronising. Chemistry, it was- oh he used to froth at the side
of the mouth EOS he looks like a rat EOS Like he was really nice if
you wanted to do well but I remember in A- level chemistry, he just
annoyed me. And he was so patronising. Cos I couldn’t do it, I got
into A-level and I thought, ‘yeah I got an A at- in science in gcse.’
EOS then you go into chem.- chemistry doing A-level like going, ‘wait
a minute I don’t actually know anything about science.’ EOS I used to
absolutely hate him. What’s yours? Just like a turtle, not being able
to get up EOS it’s like, ‘’. Did you ever used to do show and tell at
EOS I think I w- in year six I remember bringing in my hamster EOS
but, no I used to- and it was so strange cos everyone picked like-
brought in these interesting animals, and I brought in a bloody EOS
The only interesting story was it tried to escape once EOS The most
boring pet life ever EOS I’ve had a couple of goldfish from school
fairs and stuff EOS I used to love our school fairs. They were really
good. You used to have your little, erm, your sponge to throw at your
teachers and stuff. Yeah did you not have that? Oh you were from
**anon**, they were probably throwing rocks at EOS Yeah but when you
were a kid, no-one could hit the teachers so it was a pretty safe bet
of doing it, wasn’t it? And sports day as well. and I remember the
sports day that we had in **anon**, we used to have osprey, eagle,
hawk and kestrel little team- teams that you were in. It was four
birds it’s not hard EOS Why do you want pigeon as a team it’s just EOS
‘I’ll go pigeon’ EOS Yeah it was it was really fun though. We were
never that equipped as a school EOS Our school was so bad it was
unreal. Not rea- no EOS Er I never really got into trouble in primary
school, I used to be like really good. And th- there’s a picture in
the reception, I’m not su- sure if it’s still there. And someone took
a picture of our class when we were in year one and everyone else was
like- like talking and laughing. And one of them- I remember one of
the guys, he was round the camera like doing tongue out like that at
the camera, and I was there in the- in the corner with my lip, my
finger against my lip and I was just EOS I used to sit like that. I
must’ve sat like that for about four years just like, ‘yes’ EOS I used
to be scared of getting in trouble I think. But I remember in year six
when we had erm, after the eleven plus and we got pay back time. And
we got to do like fun stuff outside. And didn’t do any lessons. I
remember we were- me and three other lads were talking, we had to go
and sit outside and do a bloody reading assessment. It was so annoying
and everyone else was sewing, as g- as sad as that sounds EOS did you
ever used to- we had to make these- our own little erm pencil EOS And
do the little sewing patterns on it, it was really good. Thanks, I
used to hate getting in trouble though. I remember when I got my first
detention at **anon**. I forged the signature- like the signature so
me mum wouldn’t find out. I used to hate it. Erm having a naked pen in
foundation studies. You know the one that you’d turn it round and the-
the bikini costume EOS It was **anon**- it was **anon** br- brother’s
and he’d robbed it and brought it in. And me, **anon** and **anon**
used to sit in a three. We were in year seven, so like twelve EOS
**anon** brought it in and me and **anon** were just like, ‘aargh!’
EOS staring at this pen. And the teacher came up and was like, ‘what’s
that?’ And we were like, ‘nothing nothing!’ EOS And we all had to
stay- we had a a half an hour detention at dinner EOS I felt like a
badass after that though EOS Going round like nothing could touch me,
it was just, ‘I’ve got a detention, so what?’. Did you get in trouble?
Even at secondary school? Bet everyone hated you EOS Got sacked yeah
lying EOS I remember our dinner ladies we used to- there always used
to be like the ty- the stereotypical nasty one that they were always
scared of EOS and then there was a nice one as well that didn’t care
EOS just like- oh and we used to have our wet day books. When it was
raining outside and we had to draw pictures inside it. They were like
the most boring EOS lunchtimes of my life, cos we used to have- We
used to have our- I think it was- we had an hour and I think it got
split into like when you were in year three and up, you could- as soon
as you’d finished you could go out. And have your dinner but when you
were in like reception to year two you had to wait ‘til half past EOS
before you could go out. And we used to have to just draw in these
books and it was so boring. It was unreal EOS There’s only so many
times I can draw stick men EOS or play noughts and crosses with myself
EOS Not so much no. I don’t- no, er my granddad died when I was
younger EOS so- I- like I said I can’t remember anything from when I
was younger EOS And my nanna- she doesn’t know what day it is, so EOS
so not really, no. There’s some interesting ones that you listen to
when you’re growing up but- nothing like major. Yeah, have you? Do
you- do you remember when your granddad made everyone believe that he
got shot in the war? You was gullible though EOS do you not think he
would have died? Did your dad know that it wasn’t real? My- my parents
never used to play tr- tricks on me. I just used to cry if they did .
I remember when we used to go to Macro and erm they used to have the
erm escalators that were flat. I remember- I never used to remember
going erm, to the airports when I was a kid and I u- I just used to
run up and down and up these escalators cos they were flat I was like,
‘yay!’ EOS But now you see them at asda and they’re just annoying EOS
Where else have you been on holiday then, is it just France and EOS
I’d love to go to America. Why cos there’s just loads of it? super
large portion. Oh it sounds it yeah EOS Was it like our KFC? They have
crab claws we’ve got Kentucky fried chicken EOS Erm when I was younger
I used to go to Majorca a couple of times but then we gave up on that
side of things EOS And got the caravan EOS And then we used to go to
Dorset and Cornwall and remember the trips to Cornwall, were over like
thirteen hours, just stuck in traffic EOS That’s when dad decided to
invest in some erm DVD players for the EOS so we wouldn’t get too
bored. Then he used to shout at us telling us to ‘turn it down, it’s
distracting him while his driving’ EOS And the classic, ‘if you don’t
shut up I’ll turn round!’ EOS and then- and then later on we’ve
ventured to France and that’s when I got too tall for the caravan and
got kicked outside into a tent. On my own. That was the last straw I
think I was like, ‘I’m not going back.’ And then later on we went to-
back to Spain I think, for the last- Oh we went to **anon** as well in
Lanzarote. Like a sports complex. No it wasn’t a summer holiday it was
in April though, was in like April, March for Easter holiday. No I
don’t think so. Probably went caravanning after it. No I used to be
sca- I used to hate like flying though. Cos like- like when you’re
going up and it like drops that bit, when it’s going up. Man it makes
me stomach turn upside down. Me mum’s always like ‘oh!’ EOS the only
one on the plane that’s screaming EOS I went round my auntie and uncle
when they took erm her daughter- their daughter and her husband and
they were filming her when my auntie, when she was taking off. Oh my
god she looked like she was having a panic attack, like, white knuckle
ride gripping onto the- onto the side EOS Just like head straight back
into the seat and it was like, ‘please don’t take off, please don’t
take off!’ it was so funny but it’s just weird it runs in the family
stuff like that. Like I won’t- I won’t go on rollercoasters. Unless-
unless there’s peer pressure on me EOS l- if- peer pressure’s the
worst thing, like when we went camping, I wouldn’t have gone into the
lake if no-one else did. Mm, it was freezing . I get- I- I always get
scared of like erm when I’m swimming in the sea, even when- no when
it’s quite deep, like- I dunno I just like picture getting dragged
down by something EOS Yeah. Even though I know it wouldn’t happen. But
I don’t know why, it’s scary, when I can’t see the bottom it’s- freaks
me out. Like I used to be scared when we used to go on the ferries to
France, like if it crashed, and I was always thinking, ‘well you’d die
wouldn’t you? You wouldn’t be able to get out.’ EOS I was scared. It’s
me mum that EOS I remember when we went to Bulgaria with the lads, the
sea there was horrible. Like it was really hot EOS but it was just
filled with jellyfish and rubbish and- you couldn’t really go in it.
And it was all dirty and it was horrible. So not a big fan of seas.
Well I am but-. If it- yeah. Yeah the amount of just rubbish that’s in
it, it’s horrible. Y- you see little scraggy kids just weeing in it
don’t you EOS That is their toilet in Blackpool it’s- it’s- ‘do you
need the toilet?’ EOS First I’ve heard of it EOS When you were- when
you were younger, I know. Just kidding, just EOS right, go on, what
were you gonna say? I was just gonna say- it doesn’t matter, I- I was
just gonna carry on the conversation but ask me a question, I’ll
answer it EOS Do you want me to ask- ask you a question? Erm .
There’s- I- I w- I’m just gonna carry on with my conversation EOS Like
I hate how my mum and dad used to- well my mum especially used to EOS
make me scared of like, loads of random things. Like rollercoasters
EOS sh- cos she was always like, ‘don’t go near the edge you might
die!’ EOS And when you’re a kid you’re like, ‘will I?’ EOS And it kind
of sticks with you, doesn’t it, and like EOS subconsciously you don’t
realise it and then- Oh I love animals, they just don’t seem to love
me. . like I remember when we went to ‘Go Ape’ in- first time we went
to France. I did the first one. But I remember getting stuck on like-
there’s like a skateboard EOS and you have to attach yourself to the
top of it. And you got to make sure your karabiners are the right way
round. And I attached one of them the wrong way. And I was sliding
down and li- I got like a quarter of the way across on this skateboard
EOS that was really loose, I was holding on for dear life. And I
realised I couldn’t go any further cos one of my karabiners was stuck
round the other pieces of EOS and I was like, ‘no!’ Like felt like I
was gonna die up there So I had to drag myself back and unhook myself.
And I think I was scared form then on. Yeah it was pretty scary EOS
I’m not gonna lie. I’m not a big fan- I’m not a big fan of heights EOS
Well I am it’s just like heights, I just dunno- I know nothing’s ever
gonna happen but I just feel like, what if a big gust of wind comes
and like just EOS I know I am, but, no like when you took me it was-
it’s one of those things where you don’t want to do it but then, when
you’ve done it you’re like ‘yeah, let’s do it again, let’s do it
again, let’s do it EOS But when you’re up there you’re like, ‘no no
please don’t!’ EOS it’s a horrible circle. I- in France we met this
erm- Mum and dad met this couple, and they had two kids of a similar
age to me and **anon** and erm we went with them to go ape. And it was
the one- the time when I got stuck on the skateboard. And this guy’s
dad had to get erm abseiled down by the people cos he was scared. He
couldn’t do it he was scared of heights. And his little ten year old
kid did it and he was- he was like hugging this tree, waiting for the
people to climb up and-. And he had to wait there for like half an
hour while they got all the equipment sorted up and stuff, and get
carried down. E- everyone watching you, ‘ha ha!’ EOS Hmm, I know. Cos
you’re impatient though, that’s the thing isn’t it? You g- just go to
think like- I don’t think- you just gotta- it’s weird, the connotation
of when you are- as a kid. How much it stays like that. And that’s
about it really, isn’t it?One, two, three, four, five. Er not partic- not particularly cos I
lived like down one of the back streets, so I think there was about
six kids on our road and they were all different ages but we all still
played together. Erm funniest? I can’t think of a funny time EOS Erm
oh when me and **anon** and **anon** like they were my best friends
when I was really young and we were having a sleep over at mine. It’s
not gonna sound funny now EOS but erm having a sleepover at mine and I
used to have big glass doors going into the conservatory. And we
pulled the curtains across while **anon** went upstairs and closed the
doors and erm she was running away from something and ran straight
into the doors EOS and onto the floor it was very funny at the time
EOS What was yours erm funniest childhood memory then? Er two sisters.
Well we do at times like we have our moments. We love each other on
days and hate each other on other days. Just cos we share a room I
think it gets a bit intense at times. What funny things are there to
do in your community? Not funny, fun EOS You’re obsessed now with the
driving range EOS Yeah with you ! We’re going erm, to Catalonia in
Greece. What, isn’t it Catalonia? What’s it called? anyway we’re going
Catalonia, on Tuesday for a week. Erm it’s got like the blue lagoon
and stuff and nice beaches and EOS It’s ninety at the minute. Erm
trampolining at **anon**. Er we did- that’s all I ever did
trampolining and dance EOS I wasn’t boring I was just er had other
things to do. What extra curricular activities did you do? Didn’t she
used to make you go for runs? What kind of games did you play as a
kid? I love bulldog? erm, tig, but some people call it tag EOS But I
call it tig. Erm hopscotch, skipping erm British bulldog erm,
rounders, hide and seek EOS Yes I played hide and seek, all- it
doesn’t ask what you played at school. Erm what was the one where you
had to get back to a place? Like you were on two teams and one team
had to catch you before you got back to-. Manhunt. And that’s around
it really. On the first day of grammar I was like on the verge of
having a panic attack, I was so nervous! I was feeling really sick and
like cos I’d like never been with boys EOS I hadn’t been with boys for
like five years cos I went to an all girl’s school. Erm so it was just
like really weird to go into a different environment of like a mixed
school. So I was nervous. Oh and **anon** fainted EOS in assembly and
I had to hold her up against the wall. Erm, I don’t know it was the
very first day of assembly and like we all line up around the walls.
Erm she just fainted in the middle of it. And I was having to hold her
up cos I didn’t know what to do, it was awful. I think I cried a bit.
cos she was my only friend and she’d fainted, it was awful. Well, from
where I live it’s quite rough at the end of my road. But on my street
itself it’s quite peaceful and nice. Erm friendly, everyone says hello
to each other like, known them all our lives really. Erm but at the
other end of the road-. It’s a bit different . No it’s scary at the
other end of the road. Like when you walk past, like they don’t look
at you, they don’t like give you that little smile that other
strangers might do, it’s weird. I used to go camping, yeah and we used
to travel France. Erm camp- going Eurocamp with the family. But never
really did caravanning. Didn’t you? Are you joking? Did the fire
brigade come? oh, no necessarily, it could have been a small one. Did
you move house at all when you were younger? What memories do you have
of this? Er yeah we moved from twenty two to fourteen, just down the
road, erm, cos the new hou- for like- tw- like from twenty two and
onwards they’d already been built, and the house we moved into was erm
had been like a new build. Erm so my mum was pregnant so we had to
move into a bigger house. Erm I loved the old house I remember- I just
remember having like erm a little tea set with erm little red love
hearts on, erm and I remember had- shut up EOS We had erm- in the old
house we had like, what’s it called? Cement, and we just moved in at
the very start. And the cats walked through it so we wrote EOS
**anon** and **anon** in the cement and we had like a special
personalised gate, which had **anon** on the top cos that was my dad’s
football team and erm the cat’s name, but I only just got that back
like this year from my dad cos we left it there when we moved house.
It was really good. we have some erm- what are they called, car boot
sales that we used to have in like a little town hall. That was good
that brought the community together. Er I don’t really understand the
question I don’t think. We have the May fair. And you get the May fair
queen and my little sister was the queen one year. And you have to
wear- and there’s like floats and stuff, that go EOS What about you?
steam train- Steam trains EOS I don’t know what you’re talking about
EOS I don’t think that answers the question but okay. Yeah I do. . Oh,
we’re made to do it you have to do like the mopping the sweeping, the-
helping out with the cooking, which I don’t mind cos I like that. Then
we have to do the pots every night and make our own beds, Mum doesn’t
do our room any more, unlike some. my mum loves me erm, but like we
all get spends for doing different chores. so it was good EOS How
about you do you do chores around the house? where are your parents
from? Er I think my dad’s from **anon**, I don’t- I’ve never known him
to live anywhere else. Erm and I think my da- mum’s from **anon**, ish
EOS I’m not **anon** I’m like, heritage wise like my Grandma- well my
Nanna EOS my granddad was **anon**, my other grandma was **anon**. My
granddad was- well is-. He’s- well no he’s half Scottish or Irish,
think it’s Scottish, which is the one that wears kilts. he’s Scottish
then, no cos we have our own erm, No but we have our own what’s-it-
called, what’s the material the kilt’s made out of? You know that
pattern? Tartan we have our own **anon** tartan. no, it’s not EOS Er
yeah I’ve got a dog called **anon**, full name **anon**. No we’ve got
**anon** and the rabbit, **anon**. You don’t have any pets do you?
What’s that got to do with anything? what’s that got to do with pets?
Oh my god . She used to get so bullied for it. But not now she just
hates it, and then mine’s **anon** and **anon** is **anon**. So
they’re not weird. Wouldn’t your dad’s name have been the same? And
your mum’s name be EOS that’s not what you said EOS What was your
school like? Did you enjoy school? I- I loved **anon** it was amazing.
Erm I think it’s changed quite a lot now. But at the time it was just
really good, it had really nice people there, everyone was really
friendly. it like- the people there like were of all different types.
Like some were a lot rougher than others but when- like I didn’t
really notice it at such a young age, like I was friends with anyone
and everyone. And I still would be but I didn’t really notice it, but
now when you walk past you can see the difference between EOS some of
the kids and it is quite rough. **anon**, what’s the question? It was
good. there was quite a lot of bullying but like you kind of just got
on with it, like EOS like, no matter where you go there’s always gonna
be people who bully. But at the same time like you meet loads of good
people there, and so long as you get in the right friendship group,
then it was EOS I went through about four, but EOS what is your best
or funniest memory from when you were EOS No what is your best memory?
Not your funniest. Erm best memory was probably like when we used to
go camping in France, and erm, it was just like the whole experience.
Like when we were driving down, me and my dad u- well we all used to
listen to like th- all the old school music and I used to sit in the
front with my dad, to try and keep him- like to help him stay awake,
and there was a time whenI don’t know cos I was asleep but I’d- I’d
fallen asleep EOS and songs were still playing but I was still singing
with my dad, even though I was asleep. And like we used to go canoeing
a lot. And then erm it was like, you were going down in your canoe.
And there was a castle on one side, and you just think you’re going
straight, and the next minute you realise the castle’s gone on the
other side and it just used to feel like, proper magical. It was so
good. But the only thing was, every time we used to go, we used to
fight, with my sisters, like proper- get into proper screaming
matches, like in this canoe EOS literally we used to have so many
water fights, and not the EOS no, but no you know like just like
playful splash, but this was like, strangle splash EOS But like it
kind of just made it, like when we went a couple of years ago, like I
couldn’t wait to go canoeing again, just to see if it- if it was the
same, it was really good. No. We did nearly er- not drown, but get
into quite a bit of danger once, cos me and **anon** had been erm dec-
we were in a canoe by EOS so we decided to get out, cos it was hot,
and just hold on to the canoe. But somehow we managed to lose the
canoe. So we were just floating in this river going downstream. And
like, there was rapids coming up. And then my dad had to like, swim
over and like drag us to the side, and then we had to catch up with
the other canoe, like later on in the stream. It was pretty dramatic,
but-. I’d never do that. Isn’t that where you go in like, little
holes? No, no I couldn’t do that, claustrophobic. Did you ever get
her- hurt- did you ever get hurt whilst playing when you were a kid?
Did you? Didn’t know that. didn’t know that EOS What do you have to do
if you break your collar bone, do you get like- Yes. My house was the
house to be- to be at, it was so good like, we always used to have
like- like one night a week me **anon** and **anon** used to go for
each- each other’s house for tea. And then erm we always used to have
Halloween parties. Which used to like- I think I’d still be scared now
EOS like we- we had like the catflap that goes out to the outside of
the house and my dad stuck his hand out like with the glove on and my
dad just like when people were coming round, ‘I’ve lost my glove, if
you notice it, like let me know. And like just bring it in to the
house.’ And then we put erm, nuts or something down the side of the
house, and it was all dark and we were walking down, and my mum was
like, ‘oh these are the cockroaches, don’t worry about them.’ EOS And
like, now it doesn’t sound scary but like it was and then erm someone
went to go grab the glove. And my dad grabbed her hand and literally I
think it was **anon**, It was so awful . And then we had like a hole
in the table and my dad’s head was un- like up through the hole but he
had like a something covering it, so when you went to get your piece
of cake or whatever was meant to be under there, and me Dad’d be like,
‘blar- with a mask on or something, it was really good. So erm- we
always used to have like birthday parties and have magicians and stuff
over, it was good EOS And the party bags afterwards, they were
amazing. You used to always get like little whistles and EOS The
little ball things. Was that, was it alphabet zoo? The one that used
to have the big blue slide. That was like nearly- well felt vertical I
don’t know if it was. Oh it was amazing and there was erm-. It was so
good and you used to have those big like- what are those like
cylinders and you had to squeeze through the two of them? And then
they used to have one where you used to have to go through like four
but kids used to get stuck in there, so they had to close it down,
like that area. Because like ch- yeah kids were getting stuck in
there. I was always so scared to go through them. that’s so funny EOS
Yeah so when you finished the party and went down the slide. I loved
it. it was amazing and you went to the ball pool at the bottom. and do
you remember the massive ball pool and you could like hide EOS It was
so good. Yeah EOS Oh that’s a risk you’ve got to take when you’re
playing hide and EOS We should go. Yeah like Barbies, like, Oh well
maybe not you, but maybe like Ken or something or action man. But like
literally you’d play for hours. And what do you do with just EOS erm
describe your least favourite teacher. What did he teach? Erm I’ve
always got on with all my teachers, I was a goody two shoes but I
remember in erm **anon** not **anon** erm **anon** there was this
really like chubby lady teacher that er had really dark, curly hair.
And erm she was always screaming at all the kids. And you’d hear her
like three rooms down. So you were always EOS you were always really
scared, like to speak to her. And one day I had to go and like tell
her something, I was like sent from class to go tell her. And I was
like stood behind her waiting for her to finish talking, but she
started walking backwards and she fell on top of me. And I was
literally like tiny EOS when I was little and I was just laid
underneath her and this massive woman was like on top of me. But she
couldn’t get up EOS And people had to help her up and I just thought
like, ‘I could never live this down,’ EOS I wouldn’t ever speak to her
again she was so scary. Can you imagine it though, like this massive
woman like tipping over on top of EOS Er yeah we always used to. Erm I
don’t remember what I brought, I used to love it though. You were only
ever allowed that, weren’t you? You’ve not had anything else, pet
wise? I loved sports day. How do you remember? Well it could’ve been
pigeon or something EOS No it’s like lots of different types of birds,
it’s kind of good to EOS Did you ever used to have that erm- like the
two different buckets, one was filled with water and one wasn’t and
you used to have like containers with holes in EOS and you had to like
fill it up and run really quick, and fill it up cos it was like
leaking, and it was your team that erm- sorry and your team had to get
like the most water in the bucket, like the quickest EOS Did you ever
get into trouble for something at school? Were you ever blamed- were
you ever blamed for something that wasn’t your fault? proper goody two
shows EOS How old were you? Oh that’s awful. that’s so funny EOS Er no
cos like I said I was always a goody two shoes so when- Even at
secondary school. Ev- everyone got like- you know like you used to get
class detentions, for everybody speaking? They always used to like
pull me up at the end and say, ‘don’t bother coming back for the
detention at the end of the day.’ I was like, ‘yes!’ EOS ‘why isn’t
Veronica **anon** here?’ and I was like, ‘well, I’m good’ EOS and then
er at primary school, whenever anyone used to get in trouble and like
need an alibi, erm, they always used to come to me and say, ‘tell them
that I didn’t do this,’ EOS ‘tell them I was somewhere else.’ And I
would be like- cos I was always cool with the boys EOS and erm, there
was this guy called **anon** and like you know like at primary school
you weren’t allowed to swear or anything? And erm he called a dinner
lady something like a rude word EOS and- or like threw rocks at her or
something like that EOS And erm he came up to me and he was like,
‘Veronica **anon** I’m going to get expelled you have to like, lie for
me.’ And I was like, ‘oh no but you’re a boy so okay.’ EOS And I was
like, ‘no he was here with me we were reading.’ And then like, they
completely believed me and then the teacher- well the dinner lady got
in trouble. she did for ma- for making like allegations, but she was a
horrible dinner lady anyway. That was like the worst thing I ever did.
I loved drawing. erm, can you remember a good story that your parents
slash grandparents used to tell you? That sticks, yeah. Not really
interesting or good, it’s just-. That was what I was gonna say EOS
well, my n- like when they were in the war like my grandma and
granddad like, they were ov- over in Germany. And er my nanna actually
did get shot and erm- a bomb exploded and the shrapnel like went all
in her skin and stuff. But she was okay, survived, rah, rah, rah, but
my granddad had a massive hole in his neck and he told us all that
erm, he’d been shot in the neck in the EOS Erm told my mum, mum
believed it for fifteen, twenty odd years. However long it was and we
believed it up un- like, up until a couple of years ago. And he it
just came out one day, saying like he didn’t really get shot and had
an operation. I was like, ‘how can you tell us our entire lives that
you’d got shot and made us think like you’re some hero,’ EOS and he
just wasn’t. He just had like some an removed or something for
whatever reason it EOS No but you should’ve- you’ve seen the hole.
Like- it’s like a good thumb like in to his neck. It’s weird. I- I-
When you think about it now, but like you wouldn’t really doubt it if
you’d been told-. Er I don’t know, maybe. You’re such a baby. Oh I
love those. Especially when they say, ‘you’re approaching the landing
Please take care!’ EOS When we were little we’ve been to- used to
travel France like I said, and er we’ve been to lots of different
places in Greece, erm America a couple of times, erm trying to think.
It’s amazing the food’s amazing, really EOS pretty much! Like at
breakfast you’d have like the proper American pancakes, scrambled
eggs, bit of crispy bacon, syrup, and like you think , ‘how disgusting
does that sound?’ It’s not. They must put something in there just to
make you think it’s nice EOS but it’s really nice and the burgers.
Like when me and mum used to go when we- when I was younger, to visit
her brother, erm we just used to have to share a meal because EOS I
couldn’t physically eat one and it was a waste of money and mum would
never eat it all so we always used to have to share, but erm EOS We
used to go to this place called er the Crab Bucket, or something, and
you used to just get like a massive bucket of unlimited crab EOS And
that was amazing. It was really nice. No it was really good, what
about you? Fifteen hours in. Could not have a hot summer holiday like
that though. Yeah but th- wasn’t that your main holiday? I’m sure it
was EOS I love it. That’s cos of your mum. Yeah, I was really tempted
to go in but I didn’t get enough EOS Like a shark or something. I
don’t like being out of my depths in the sea. And like if you go to
like Greece or somewhere, like the- the sea’s proper crystal clear,
and you can see everything. So it’s no too bad, ni- only nice ones. I
don’t think I’d ever go in seas here, like they must be so cold. No,
but like everyone used to pee in the pool when they were a kid and
stuff and like-. Yes you did EOS I don’t mean like ten year old kid, I
mean like smaller. right, erm- go on, I was gonna ask a question. Are
y- are you not an animal lover then? No er it’s completely different
like, in my family. Like- like, my mum was always scared but my dad
was always erm encouraging me. Like to go on rollercoasters and EOS
like proper like, ‘seek the thrill’ EOS Which I still do now. Yeah.
Like I dragged you ‘go ape’ the other- like EOS couple of months ago
didn’t I? Was it that scary then? You’re not a big fan of anything.
You’re like, attached. Yeah, I love those things. It’s funny like,
watching all the like the really girly girls go around and like
getting stuck. And you just think- I’m always like, ‘just hurry up!’
EOS I get really restless. Aww. The man or the ten year old? R It was
kind of like, ‘see dad? I’m not a girl.’ EOS Aww I couldn’t do that,
I’d rather just finish than have the shame of s- of another full grown
man carrying-. Exactly cos you’re keeping everyone else like up, cos
you can’t like cross people’s paths when you’re up there. I’d be so
annoyed. I’d be like, ‘hurry up!’