1. Wednesday, 13 March at Waterstone's Trafalgar Square: Capitalist
Realism: What is it and how to fight it With Mark Fisher, Peter
Fleming and Alex Niven. (Unfortunately, there is a charge for this
naturally, however, none of the money is going to the authors ... ) 2.
Saturday 16 March, at the Showroom Discussion on the Eerie, with
Justin Barton, Mark Fisher, anjelica Sagar, kodak Eshun, John Foxx,
Elizabeth Walling (Gazelle Twin) Free, no booking required 3. Sunday
17 March, 68pm, at the Boathouse cafe, Bawdsey, Suffolk In the
Boathouse cafe on the banks of the River Deben, Mark Fisher and Andy
Sharp (English Heretic) discuss the relationship between the East
Anglian landscape and the contemporary remaining of the eerie. The
Boathouse is located in the grounds of Bawdsey Manor, the site where
radar was invented, just opposite the locations in Old Felixstowe that
inspired key scenes in M R James's story "Oh, Whistle and I'll Come To
You". The conversation will be illustrated by readings, a screening of
Fisher and Sharps short film, Bleak and Solemn (2013) and excerpts
from On Vanishing Land. Free, no booking required.The Boathouse Cafe,
Bawdsey, Woodbridge, Suffolk, ip22 3AZhttp://www.boathousecafe.co.uk
By car: from Woodbridge (just off the A12) follow the b10 to the end
of this B road. Please do not rely on sat nav. By train: take the
Ipswich to Lowestoft line. Change at Ipswich station onto the Melton
train. Exit at Melton station. From here, take a cab to Boathouse
cafe, which should take 20 minutes. Any additional travel queries
please contact Di at Boathouse cafe on 07900 811826 On Vanishing Land
continues at The Showroom until 30 March 2013WednesdaySaturday, 126pm
On Vanishing Land was jointly commissioned and produced by The
Showroom and The monolith Collective.1. Wednesday, 13 March at
Waterstone's Trafalgar Square: Capitalist Realism: What is it and how
to fight it With Mark Fisher, Peter Fleming and Alex Niven.
(Unfortunately, there is a charge for this naturally, however, none of
the money is going to the authors ... ) 2. Saturday 16 March, at the
Showroom Discussion on the Eerie, with Justin Barton, Mark Fisher,
anjelica Sagar, kodak Eshun, John Foxx, Elizabeth Walling (Gazelle
Twin) Free, no booking required 3. Sunday 17 March, 68pm, at the
Boathouse cafe, Bawdsey, Suffolk In the Boathouse cafe on the banks of
the River Deben, Mark Fisher and Andy Sharp (English Heretic) discuss
the relationship between the East Anglian landscape and the
contemporary remaining of the eerie. The Boathouse is located in the
grounds of Bawdsey Manor, the site where radar was invented, just
opposite the locations in Old Felixstowe that inspired key scenes in M
R James's story "Oh, Whistle and I'll Come To You". The conversation
will be illustrated by readings, a screening of Fisher and Sharps
short film, Bleak and Solemn (2013) and excerpts from On Vanishing
Land. Free, no booking required.The Boathouse Cafe, Bawdsey,
Woodbridge, Suffolk, ip22 3AZhttp://www.boathousecafe.co.uk By car:
from Woodbridge (just off the A12) follow the b10 to the end of this B
road. Please do not rely on sat nav. By train: take the Ipswich to
Lowestoft line. Change at Ipswich station onto the Melton train. Exit
at Melton station. From here, take a cab to Boathouse cafe, which
should take 20 minutes. Any additional travel queries please contact
Di at Boathouse cafe on 07900 811826 On Vanishing Land continues at
The Showroom until 30 March 2013WednesdaySaturday, 126pm On Vanishing
Land was jointly commissioned and produced by The Showroom and The
monolith Collective.Two books I've recently endorsed, and which I
would heavily recommend: "Whats left of public space after thirty
years of neoliberalism? Sam Berksons new collection, Life In Transit,
finds the degraded relics of public space on public transport. Like
the music of Burial or Laura Oldfield Fords Savage Messiah zines, Life
In Transit is attuned to the peculiar loneliness of life in neo-
liberal Britain. In the UK, trains and buses are now public in name
only, since most are operated by private companies. And, with the rise
of the mobile phone, they are much less likely to be spaces where we
overhear the intimacies of others rather than strike up a conversation
with a stranger. By turns lyrical, acerbic and bitingly humorous,
Berksons poems describe a world in which, ordinarily, the only
sympathetic solidarity is that of commuters who reluctantly cough
together. Yet public transport remains a space where our lives can
still be transformed by unexpected encounters with others, and where
the shadow of another world  collective, egalitarian, democratic can
sometimes be glimpsed." "Luke Cooper and Simon Hardy's vivid and
invigorating Beyond Capitalism builds upon the analysis of leftist
paralysis I started to develop in Capitalist Realism. Writing from the
perspective of experienced activists, Cooper and Hardy offer an
incisive and clear-eyed explanation of why the left has so far failed
to take advantage of the current major crisis of capitalism. But this
analysis is not just another jeremiad; it is a contribution to a
leftist renewal which Cooper and Hardy believe is within our grasp.
The future is ours for the reclaiming, and Beyond Capitalism outlines
some concrete strategies for how we can win it back." Mark Fisher and
Justin Barton: On Vanishing Land 6 February30 March 2013 Opening
Hours: WednesdaySaturday, 126pm Press Breakfast with the artists:
Tuesday 5 February, 9.3011am Preview: Tuesday 5 February, 6.308.30pm
Performances by John fox and Raime: Thursday 7 March, 7pm(see
www.theshowroom.org for information and booking) Discussion with Mark
Fisher, Justin Barton, The monolith Collective,John Foxx, Frances
Morgan, Elizabeth Walling (Gazelle Twin):Saturday 16 March, pm (free,
no booking required) The monolith Collective and The Showroom present
On Vanishing land new work by British sound artists and theorists Mark
Fisher adjusting Barton. On Vanishing Land (2013, 45m) is a
magisterial audioessay that evokes a walk undertaken by the artists
along the Suffolk coastline in 2005, from Felixstowe container port to
the anglo-saxon burial ground at Sutton Hoo. Fisher and Barton have
conjured a new form of sonic fiction from the dreamings, gleaming and
prefigurations that pervade the Suffolk coast. The work includes
commissions from digital musicians, interviews and the reflections of
the artists. Inspired by the cumulative force of the Eerie that
animates this landscape, On Vanishing Land pursues affinities between
the modernist invention of the ghost story in M.R. James Oh, Whistle,
And Ill Come To You, My Lad (1904) and the atmospheric engineering of
Brian Enos album On Land (1982). Themes of incursion by unsaleable
forces, geological sentience or temporal anomaly recur throughout.
(Kodwo Eshun, The monolith Collective, Curator, On Vanishing Land) On
Vanishing Land integrates new compositions by digital musicians Baron
Mordant, Dolly Dolly, Ekoplekz, Farmers of Vega, Gazelle Twin, John
Foxx, Pete Wiseman, raise and Skjolbrot. For the installation at The
Showroom it will be accompanied by an untitled sequence of a wide
range of visual references, produced in collaboration with artist Andy
Sharp (English Heretic). Events accompanying the exhibition include a
performance on 7 March by John fox and raise of compositions from the
project. On 16 March, Fisher and Barton, with The monolith Collective,
John Foxx, Frances Morgan (Deputy Editor, The Wire) and Elizabeth
Walling (Gazelle Twin), will explore the contemporary cultural
fascination with the illogical of the Eerie. Finally, a conversation
at the Boathouse cafe on the River Deben, Suffolk between the artists
and Andy Sharp (English Heretic) will discuss the remaining of MR
James ghost stories by television directors Jonathan Miller and
Lawrence Gordon Clark since the late 1960s. On Vanishing Land was
jointly commissioned, produced and curated by The monolith Collective
and The Showroom.New Product (2012) by hrun frock Screening and
discussion with Nina Montmann, Mark Fisher and Andrea Phillips 2pm, 29
November, Room 5, Studio B, Barriedale Buildings, Goldsmiths,
University of London. Over the period of one year hrun frock joined
the meetings of the Quickborner Team, a business consultancy in
Hamburg, as they developed a new consultancy product. The QT
specialises in organisational building planning and property
management (meaning the design of workspaces, offices and social
zones) with the aim of optimising business processes and
organisational structures. For the period of one year frock filmed the
QT's internal meetings as well as meetings with clients. QT advises
businesses to grant employees greater independence, reduce compulsory
attendance and develop more flexible workspace. Based on their own
experiences and parallel to current changes in corporate work flows,
QT is expanding this strategy and planning to become active in the
fields of 'personnel development' and 'corporate culture.' These plans
are the subject of the meetings that frock documents in his film,
which was made in close collaboration with QT employees. The film
focuses on the practice of future forecasting in commercial
consultation at a time of upheaval, wherein consultancy is itself
examining the procedures of decision-making that constitute corporate
branding. A New Product was commissioned by Nina Montmann, curator of
New Patrons in Hamburg, and premiered at the Deichtorhallen in
Hamburg, sparking a wide discussion of neo-liberal working conditions
in the German media. The screening will be followed by a conversation
between Nina Montmann, curator of A New Product and Professor of Art
Theory and the History of Ideas at the Royal Institute of Art in
Stockholm, Mark Fisher, writer and theorist, and Andrea Phillips,
Director of Research Programmes in the Department of Art,
Goldsmiths.Welcome to the Hunger Games. The function of the Hunger
Games is to suppress antagonism, via spectacle and terror. In the same
way, London 2012 preceded and accompanied by the authoritarian
knockdown and militarisation of the city are being held up as the
antidote to all discontent. The feelgood Olympics, we are being
assured, will do everything from making good the damage done by last
year's riots to seeing off the "threat" of Scottish independence. Any
disquiet about London 2012 is being repositioned as "griping" or
"cynicism". Such "whinging", it is claimed, assumed its proper place
of marginality as the vast majority enjoy the Games, and loco is
vindicated. The Olympics hemisphere is one from which all negativity
must be banished. Witness this masterpiece of circularity, in a blow
defending Coca Cola and McDonalds' sponsorship of the Games.
Negativity is bad because it brings negativity! The BBC is even
periodically running a little film about the importance of positive
thinking (even though positive thinking can result in worse outcomes).
Sadly, Charlie Brooker has joined those who think that negativity
about the Games was overplayed. But once the Olympic floodlights are
turned off, most will switch back from an attitude of mild interest to
indifference towards even the most dramatic Olympic sports, never mind
those many Olympic sports which plainly have limited spectator appeal.
This isn't the point though: disquiet about London 2012 was never
necessarily based in any hostility towards the sports. Enjoyment of
the sport and loathing for loco and the IOC are perfectly compatible.
Cynicism is just about the only rational response to the doublethink
of the McDonalds and Coca Cola sponsorship (one of the most prominent
things you see as you pass the Olympic site on the train line up from
Liverpool Street is the McDonalds logo). As Paolo virgo argues,
cynicism is now an attitude that is simply a requirement for late
capitalist subjectivity, a way of navigating a world governed by rules
that are groundless and arbitrary. But as virgo also argues, "It is no
accident ... that the most brazen cynicism is accompanied by
unrestrained sentimentalism." Once the Games started, cynicism could
be replaced by a managed sentimentality. The BBC has given itself over
to propagating an hysterical PR delirium, as Mike marquee described
after seeing the boxing at ExCel: Sadly, at the ExCel, after the
refreshment of the boxing came the utterly formulaic torpor of a video
package in which celebrities waxed banal on the "atmosphere" that
makes the Olympics special and the "unforgettable" moment we're
privileged to be part of.Speaking of autonomism, and as an example of
what postpopulist media can achieve .... here's Federico Campagna
giving an absolutely enthralling history of Italian workerism/
autonomist on Resonance FM, and here's a grabbed of autonomistrelated
resources and links produced by the everexcellent DSG. It took all of
Cameron's replicants smart to get through this morning's astonishing
press conference. Events have moved so swiftly this week that it's
easy to overlook how momentous some of his admissions were. Many are
rightly sceptical about whether Cameron will act on what he said
today. Sometimes, however, words are acts, and the ultimate
significance of what Cameron said today is that it constituted an
official acknowledgement from the very mouth of the beast that there
is indeed a corrupt system involving the press, the police and other
politicians, and that he is implicated in it. We're all in it
together, he ruefully observed, another iteration of the fateful
phrase that will define his wretched premiership. This might count as
capitalist realism's equivalent of Krushchev's acknowledgement of
corruption in the USSR. There are also those who are sceptical as to
whether all of this will lead anywhere very different. If, as I argued
in my last post, the scenes we're now living through resemble the
denouement of The Wire or one of David Peace's novels, then we must
confront the political ambivalence of those fictions again. For what
they show, after all, is the System as a Schopenhauerian monstrosity,
impersonal and implacable, remorselessly reproducing itself, no matter
how many local victories are achieved, no matter how many individuals
die or are exposed. Is this an analysis of capitalist realism, or a
contribution to it? It's possible now to see both Peace and The Wire
as symptomatic of a political impasse; Peace's novel show the defeat
of collective politics, and The Wire anatomists the consequences of
that defeat. What we're seeing now may not herald the collapse of the
system, but I'm confident that this week will be looked back upon as a
moment when power in the UK was forced to reconfigure. We're too ready
to see the murdoch as machiavelli one step ahead of events. But no
empire lasts forever; even the cannes operator loses their touch
eventually, and Murdoch, let's remember, is the man who bought
MySpace. Closing down the News Of The World may have been a smart
move, but it is one that the murdoch made on the back foot; it was a
reactive bid to regain initiative, or at least to gain some traction
on a situation that remains out of their control. This is all a
consequence of an excess of power. If the old autonomist argument is
correct and capital's innovations were forced by workers' acts of
refusal and what could illustrate this thesis more effectively than
Murdoch's struggle with the unions in the 1980s then it's now clear
how sloppy and shoddy capital's operatives became in the lack of any
effective opposition. This is decadence not merely in the moral sense,
but also in the sense of decay and deterioration. During the early
just century high pomp of neoliberalism, hacks, cops and politicans
were so confident that they would never be exposed that they behaved
in an ever more brazenly depraved manner, and appeared to take little
care in covering their traces. What's also emerging into clearer view
now is the tabloid media's crucial role in the geopolitical control
which was central to the constitution of neo-liberal hegemony. Too
much is made of Murdoch the kingmaker; his hold over politicians, like
that exercised by Paul Dacre, depended far less on what he could do
for them, and far more on what he could do to them, if they crossed
him or his organisation. It's sugggested, for instance, that the
reason that the previous police 'investigations' into News
International were so inadequate is that NI held compromising
information on the investigating officers, and that MPs feared calling
Rebekah Brooks to account because they were warned that they would be
subject to tabloid humiliation. Dacre and Murdoch are the princes of
piety and cynicism. The neo-liberal tabloid is an almost too crude
diagram of a Burroughsian biocontrol apparatus: stimulating hedonic
excess on the one hand while condemning it on the other. Surveillance
need only be virtual. There's always something potentially shaming
that can be dragged out of the closet, for whose fantasy life is not
humiliating when exposed to the glare of the big Other? No matter who
the victim of these exposes might be, they serve right wing purposes,
because they reinforce a Hobbesian account of "human nature": everyone
is out for themselves; everyone has a price; everyone is sexually
incontinent, given the opportunity. It's no accident that alloy called
his great work of political demythologisation American Tabloid. But it
was the pairing of piety and cynicism which ultimately did for the
News Of The World. The revelations that practically every cause or
individual about which the not waxed so sentimentally and
sanctimoniously Our Boys, murdered children, the 7/7 victims was being
phone hacked means that the distance between public piety and private
cynicism could no longer be maintained. Read Adam Curtis's potted
history of Murdoch and it's instructive to see how the justification
for tabloid sensationalism has changed. The denials that the News of
the World would be salacious which Murdoch made when he took over the
paper in the social democratic era give way to neoliberalism's claim
to be only giving people what they want. This was the line that
witless reactionary oaf Jon Gaunt pursued on Question Time last night.
There's nothing quite so sad as an unpopular populist, and Gaunt's
goading of Hugh Grant "if you didn't want to be on the front of the
papers, you should have kept it in your trousers", "who are you to
tell people what they can or can't watch" embarrassingly misjudged the
audience's mood . Tabloid sensationalism is a drug, but there was a
sense last night that the QT audience was no longer willing to conceal
from itself the cost of procuring that cheap hit. There was little
appetite for Gaunt's now quaintseeming rhetoric of "choice" and his
bashing of paternalism. The old neo-liberal lines Gaunt was helplessly
hawking had all the appeal of yesterday's fast food. What we're left
with is a whole set of questions about culture that are now posed
again with renewed force: neoliberalism has failed, the patrician
culture it defeated cannon be revived, nor should it be so where next?
Johann Hari's defenders and practically every defence of Hari served
to further underscore what a complacent self-serving Oxbridge club so
much of the UK broadsheet commentaries is might have pathetically
seized upon the News of the World hacking story in order to underplay
their boy's misdemeanours, but the reality is that the Hari and the
News of the World situations are part of a single crisis that also
includes the Ed Miliband "these strikes are wrong" video and ongoing
cyberwar (Wikileaks, Lulzsec, 4Chan). Perhaps the reason that the
Assange/ cizek dialogue was so disappointing is that Zizek's basic
point about the crisis of symbolic efficiency is now so clear that it
doesn't require much elaboration. It is one thing our knowing about
the corrupt practices that the power elite routinely engage in; it is
another for that knowledge to be officially validated. The space that
power needs to manage reality is disappearing. With the 'Milibot'
video, the off-screen manipulations of PR came off less like a dark
art and more like surrealist comedy Miliband for all the world
resembling an ROM entity from Existenz, only capable of giving one
pre-prepared response no matter what the question. The exposure of
Hari's manipulations is significant, meanwhile, because (as Petra
Davis argued on her Twitter feed) it showed how his construction of
"commonsense reality" depended on techniques proper to fiction .
Reading Hari's pieces back, it's quite astonishing how crass these
techniques were a "she drew on the omnipresent cigarette" here, and
"he asked for more wine" there, inserted between screeds of pirated
text. It's like Hari's "interviewing" career is one long postmodern
prank, and, really, this episode ought to be liberal empiricism's
equivalent of the local scandal. It was fitting that the dog exposure
of Hari started with Hari's hatchet job on Negri, a masterclass in
liberal propaganda and knee-jerk loathing of theory privately educated
Hari reassuring his readers that he couldn't understand Empire,
therefore they shouldn't worry about reading it. The old we don't read
it, so you don't have to.... routine. The Negri 'interview' crudely
alternates between personal attacks on Negri and appeals to
selfevidence (of course communism is evil, why won't this bad tempered
old man admit it?) Yet Hari's conclusion "this is where revolutionary
Marxism comes to die. It has been reduced to an obscure parlour game
for ageing bourgeois nostalgics" now itself reads like a relic of a
bygone world. The "certainties" and selfevidences of the nearest are
unravelling quicker than we can keep up. As for the News of the World
story, it is clear that it is not just about the News of the World or
phone hacking. A whole ruling class, a whole mode of governance,
stands accused. All the signs are that neoliberalism's standard
tactics of containment offering an individual as scapegoattrophy in
order to deflect from a structural tendency are now starting to fail.
News International are trying to sacrifice a scapegoat they've already
served up (Coulson) but the process is out of their control and now
has its own momentum (which is sure to drag other newspapers into its
wake before very long). What was made to look like a series of
disconnected incidents now appears as what it always was: a worldwide
web of corruption whose byzantine murkiness resembles something out of
The Wire or a David Peace novel. A dark network comprising private
investigators, the criminal underworld, tabloid newspapers,
multinational media conglomerates, the police, politicians, the banks,
and the bodies supposed to regulate them (who are at best impotent, at
worst part of the problem) cannon now be kept hidden from public
scrutiny. This is less a conspiracy than a network of complicities:
fear on all sides, nobody trusting anybody else, the whole thing
depending on who's got the goods on whom ... Cops watching hacks
watching cops; threatened politicans looking for favours ... What
characterises capitalist realism is fatalism at the level of politics
(where nothing much can ever change, except to move further in the
direction of neoliberalisation) and magical voluntarism at the level
of the individual: you can achieve anything, if you only you do more
training courses, listen to Mary ports or Kirsty Alsop, try harder.
Magical voluntarism, naturally, also drives the tabloid culture of
individual blame (resign, resign!) in which the tabloids themselves
are now caught up, although, as Zone Styx noted, News International
clearly expects far more from public service managers like Sharon
shoosmith than it does from its own executives.) Individualise,
individualise, insists capitalist ideology. Note the way in which the
media sought to reduce the pulse story to Ryan Cleary, or the way in
which the clueless Peter Preston finds the idea of a collective entity
such as dog unfathomable. A manageable level of cynicism about the
media actually serves the capitalist realist media system well. Since
the media stands in for the public sphere, if journalists and
politicians are perceived to be "all liars", as they widely are, then
there is no hope to be had in public life at all. Hack expulpations
appeal to a market Hobbesianism: they are giving people what they want
but what they won't admit to liking. When, pickled in the jouissance
of self-loathing and their other stimulants of choice, the hacks style
themselves as "princes of darkness", they see themselves as reflecting
the public's own disavowed cynicism back to it. Nobody likes working
in the sewers, but don't you all love the pretty little globules of
sensation that we dredge up for you?. Similarly, Glenn Mulcaire whines
that the not put him under pressure for results, this isn't only an
excuse what we're seeing here is in part the consequence of the
intense competitive pressures at work in print media as its market
share declines. Negative solidarity again: a race to depths so
internally pressurised that only alcoholbreathing subhuman crustaceans
can survive there. (You only have to look at exNOTW hack Paul McMullan
to see that.) As one by one those who played their part are dragged
into the light, the old bullying sneers become familiar plaints:
that's reality, we couldn't help it, that's how things are now ... But
we must hear their excuses as indictments of a system: behold what a
wretched state overwork and pitiless competition can reduce human
beings to. All of which means that a few sackings here and there will
clearly not suffice. What is needed, as Dan argues, is total media
reform: In the House of Commons emergency debate today, many MPs had
the relieved and faintly bemused air of the henchmen and victims of a
bully who can't quite believe that the tyranny might be nearing its
end. As passage said on Saturday and as Dan Hind also argues in The
Return of the Public the function of corporate media has been to
isolate people, to make them distrust their discontent with a world
controlled by business interests. What has combated this is the
production of new collectivities of dissent, both online and in the
streets. What we're seeing in this extraordinary moment of transition
is a reality management system imploring from within at the same time
as it is being undermined from outside. And, this is only the
beginning you haven't seen anything yet.Next week: APA Studies
presents: On Hauntology/ Capitalist Realism 2 talks by Mark fisherton
COLLOQUIUM FOR UNPOPULAR CULTURE AND NYUS ASIAN/ PACIFIC/ AMERICAN
STUDIES PROGRAM present:2 TALKS BY MARK FISHERWhat are grey vampires
and how do they retard the insurrectionary potential of digital
discourse? How does Derridas notion of tautology contribute to an
understanding of dusted artist Burial? Is Basic Instinct 2, routinely
derided as a cineatrocity, a Lacanian reworking of Ballard,
Baudrillard and Bataille in service of the creation of a phantasmatic,
cybergothic London? What is interpassivity and in what ways has it
come to define the corporatized incarceration of modern academia?Over
the last decade, Mark Fisher has established a reputation as one of
the exhilarating cultural theorists in Britain. A co-founder of the
Cybernetic Culture Research Unit (CCRU) at Warwick University  and
described by Simon Reynolds as the academic equivalent of Apocalypse
Nows Colonel Kurtz  he brings together psychoanalysis, political
analysis and speculative fiction to create an extraordinary body of
rogue scholarship, a theoryrush with few parallels. Fisher is the
author of Capitalist Realism, the editor of The Resistible Demise of
Michael Jackson (both Zer0, 2009), and writes regularly for Sight and
Sound, Film Quarterly, The Wire and Frieze, as well as maintaining a
wellknown blow at kpunk.abstractdynamics.org. He teaches at the
University of East London, Goldsmiths, University of London, and the
City Literary Institute.The Colloquium for Unpopular Culture and NYUs
Asian/ Pacific/ American Studies program are pleased to be hosting
Fishers first talks in America.http://pontone.pl/pontonesspecialguestm
ixkpunkthemetaphysicsofcrackle/MARK FISHER, THERE ARE notices AS WELL
AS NONPLACES: REFLECTIONS ON tautology ... God save the Queen and a
fascist regime ... a flabby, toothless fascism to be sure. Never go
too far in any direction is the basic law on which leyland is built.
The Queen stabilizes the whole stinking shithouse and keeps a small
elite of wealth and privilege on top .... The English have gone soft
in the outhouse. England is like some stricken beast too stupid to
know it is dead. inglorious foundering in its own waste products, the
backlash and bad karma of empre. You see what we owe to Washington and
the Valley Forge boys for getting us out from under this den of
snobbery and accent, this ladder where everyone stomps discreetly on
the hands below them: "Pardon me, old chap, but you aren't you getting
just a bit ahead of yourself in rather an offensive manner?" ... The
English thing worked too well and too long. They'll never get all that
ballast of unearned privilege up into space. Who wants that dumped in
his vicinity? They get out of a spaceship and start looking
desperately for inferiors. Music, Politics and Agency A one-day
conference presented by: Centre for Cultural Studies Research,
University of East LondonFaculty of Social Sciences, Open
UniversityMedia Industries Research Centre, University of Leeds May
with 201111:00 18:00University of East LondonDocklands Campus Room
EB.2.43permalink: http://culturalstudiesresearch.org/?p=694 Can music
change anything, or does its potency lie merely in its exemplary
status as an organised human activity? What are the effects of power
relations on music and to what extent is music itself a site at which
power relations can be reinforced, challenged or subverted? What are
the economic, affective, corporeal or ideological mechanisms through
which these processes occur? Has the age of recorded music as a potent
social force now passed, a relic of the twentieth century; or with the
music industry in crisis, is music culture in fact the first
postcapitalist sector of the cultural economy, only now emerging from
the long shadow of the culture industry? What historical or
contemporary examples can we draw on to address some or all of these
questions? This conference is programmed by Jeremy Gilbert (Centre for
Cultural Studies Research, University of East London), David
Hesmondhalgh (Media Industries Research Centre, Institute of
Communications Studies) and Jason Toynbee (Centre for Research on
SocioCultural Change, Open University). The conference is free to
attend, but preregistration is recommended. To register email
j.gilbert@uel.ac.uk with the subject Music, Politics and Agency
RegistrationFor any further information, email j.gilbert@uel.ac.uk
fuel Docklands Campus is best reached via Cyprus dr (Docklands Light
Railway) station, which is literally located at the campus.For
information about the campus, see
http://www.uel.ac.uk/campuses/docklands.htm Room EB.2.43 is on the
second floor of the main building (East Building) which is to the left
of the main square upon entering from the square from Cyprus dr .See
http://journeyplanner.tfl.gov.uk/user/XSLTTRIPREQUEST2?language=en to
plan your journey. Speakers and Papers Anne daniels Power, mediation,
and aesthetics in the music of Public Enemy Anne daniels is Professor
and Head of Research in the Department of Musicology at the University
of Oslo. Her publications include Pleasure and Presence: the Funk
Grooves of James Brown and Parliament (2006) and Musical Rhythm in the
Age of Digital Reproduction (2010). Barry Shank The political agency
of music Barry Shank teaches popular music, American studies and
cultural theory in the department of Comparative Studies at Ohio State
University. He is the author dissonant Identities: The Rock'n'Roll
Scene in Austin, Texas and A Token of My Affection: Greeting Cards and
American Business Culture. He is currently completing a book for Duke
University Press entitled Silence, Noise, Beauty: The Political Agency
of Music. David HesmondhalghMusic and human flourishing David
Hesmondhalgh teaches and researches at the University of Leeds. His
books include Creative Labour: Media Work in Three Cultural Industries
(2011), co-written with Sarah Baker, and Western Music and its Others:
Difference, Appropriation and Representation in Music (with Georgina
Born, 2000). Helen beddington The sound of women musicians in the punk
era Helen beddington lectures in songwriting and production on the
University of East London's Music Cultures BA. Her research interests
include the punk subculture and women's engagement with music
technology. Her book The Lost Women of Rock Music will appear revised
in paperback in January 2012 and a double CD of archive material by
her punkpop band is due to be released by the label Damaged Goods
later this year. Jeremy GilbertMusic after capitalism? Culture,
creativity and markets Jeremy Gilbert is Reader in Cultural Studies at
the University of East London. His publications include (with Ewan
Pearson) Discographies: Dance Music Culture and the Politics of Sound
(Routledge 1999) and anti-capitalism and Culture: Radical Theory and
Popular Politics (Berg 2008). He is co-director of the Centre for
Cultural Studies Research, editor of new formations and a founder
member of Lucky Cloud Sound System.John Street Music as political
thought and action: the arguments and the evidenceJohn Street is a
professor of politics at the University of East Anglia. His latest
book is Music and Politics, which is due to be published by Polity
later this year. He is a member of the editorial group of the journal
Popular Music. Martin Stokes Scale, agency and music in religious
movements Martin Stokes is University Lecturer in Ethnomusicology and
Tutorial Fellow at St. John's College, University of Oxford. Martin is
an ethnomusicologist with a particular interest in social and cultural
theory. His most recent book The Republic of Love: Cultural Intimacy
in Turkish Popular Music, has just been published by the University of
Chicago Press (2010). Tim LawrenceRhizomatic musicianship: Arthur
Russell and after Tim Lawrence is a Reader in Cultural Studies at the
University of East London and the programme leader of the Music
Culture: Theory and Production degree. He is the author of Love Saves
the Day: A History of American Dance Music Culture, 197079 (Duke
University Press, 2003) and Hold On to Your Dreams: Arthur Russell and
the Downtown Music Scene, 197392 (Duke University Press, 2009). He is
a founding member of the Centre for Cultural Studies Research and
Lucky Cloud Sound System.Tuulikki pieties Body politic: youth musics
in the New South Africa Tuulikki pieties is a social anthropologist
and a research fellow in the Helsinki Collegium for Advanced Studies.
She has published a monograph and a number of articles on trade and
gender in Kilimanjaro and the post-colonial Africa more broadly.
Currently she is studying South African music and music
industry.(Image from the wonderful territorial Support Group) The
Caretaker and me on Karl Marx Allee in Berlin, photo by Lisa planning
Been a crazy few months, but new posts coming soon ...Well, the new
version of Whistle and I'll Come to You was a surprisingly welcome
antidote to all the literal and figurative noise of Christmas
television. Noise in entertainment culture functions in precisely the
opposite sense to Noise the non (musical) genre: it's not an
invitation to explore the materialises of sound beyond music, but a
question of submitting to sound being used ballistically, as a
behaviouristic bludgeon triggering familiar associations. One of the
enjoyable things about the invention was its (verbal) silence. The
dialogue can't have amounted to more than a few pages of script. The
verbal silence allowed for a close attention to both dietetic and
nondiegetic sound. The atmosphere was set by subtle murmuring
electronics, while, initially, the night terrors to which John Hurt's
Parkin was subject were predominantly sonic. Parkin was beset by
acoustic entities, rattles and scrapings detached from any
identifiable origin. It's no accident that when the horror took on a
visible form, it was immediately less powerful. What dialogue there
was whether it consisted of apparent banalities ("You should have
known her when she was herself", "We have a double room for you", "I
wish you were here") or Parkin's disquisition on the universe's
indifference (it conserves energy, but wastes love) was heavily
freighted with uncanny philosophical implications. In Jonathan
Miller's 1968 version, the focus was on Parkins's own incipient
dementia. In the new version, Parkin is tormented by the dementia that
has reduced his wife to a catatonic shell. The story was relocated
from Suffolk to the West country coast and with the forlorn Parkin
revisiting, as he himself put it, he and his wife's "old haunts" in
Devon, one couldn't help but recall Hardy's love poetry. Practically
any line from Hardy's "After a Journey" could have served as an
epigraph for this version of Oh Whistle: "Hereto I come to view a
voiceless ghost ... Up the cliff, down, till I'm lonely, lost ... Yes:
I have reentered your olden haunts at last ... I see what you are
doing: you are leading me on/ To the spots we knew when we haunted
here together." James was the kind of Christian Oxford academic
towards whom Hardy felt resentment, but in some ways both James the
antiquarian turned ghost story writer and Hardy the upstart man of
letters were equally strangers in the twentieth century. The demonic
entities in James's stories were typically characterised as unquiet
atavisms: relics from a pre-christian past. In this new version,
Parkin instead confronted a horror proper to the era of speculative
realism, becoming fixated on objects whose interiors remain opaque,
their blank, inexpressive surfaces masking what could be malign
designs. The vast geological features through which Parkin walked on
the beach connoted a deep time indifferent to human existence; while
the psychic death of his wife ("a body that has outlasted the
existence of the personality: more horrifying than any spook or
ghoul") was made to presage cosmic extinction itself. "There is
nothing inside us," Parkin mordantly declared. "There are no ghosts in
these machines. Man is matter, and matter rots." Yet Parkin's own
statement establishes that there are ghosts in the machine, that a
certain kind of speciality is intrinsic to the speaking subject. After
all, who is it who can talk of having no inside, of man being rotting
matter? Not any substantial subject perhaps, but the subject who
speaks, the subject, that is to say, composed out of the undead,
incorporate stuff of language. In the very act of announcing in its
own nullity, the subject does not so much engage in performative
contradiction (as, for instance, certain critics of Thomas Metzinger
would have it: "how can Metzinger refer to himself as I" etc), but
points to a ineradicable dualism that results from subjectivity
itself. This dualism is not a substance dualism rather it is a
phenomenological dualism that follows directly from the
acknowledgement that there is only one substance. The condition of
materialists such as Parkin (our condition in other words) is of
knowing that all subjectivity is reducible to matter, that no
subjectivity can survive the death of the body, but of nevertheless
being unable to experience oneself as mere matter. Here we come to the
paradoxical materialist point that comes out of fictions such as
necromancer and Inception, which is not that experience is always
embodied, but the opposite: that all experience is out of body
experience. Once the body is recognised as the substrateprecondition
of experience, then one is immediately compelled to accept this
phenomenological dualism, precisely because experience and its
substrate can be separated. There are ghosts in the machine, and we
are they. 9.45 PM. Day X, November 24th. I'm at Charing Cross,
grabbing my first food of the day. Actually, it's not particularly
abnormal for me to be eating for the first time this late in the
evening; but usually it's because of overwork, not a consequence of my
being 'contained' by the police for eight hours. Two protestors
arrive, coming down from the day's anger, frustration and
exhilaration. I catch their eye and one of them asks me if I will be
joining them next week. I say, yes, tell them that I've been settled
in Whitehall, only just got out. They say they were settled twice. One
of them has a V for Vendetta mask pulled up off his face. The police
held him for a while but had to release him because of lack of
evidence. (Later, one of my students at fuel will tell me a similar
story arrested by the cops on the grounds that he was wearing a red
tracksuit top, the same as someone who supposedly set fire to a litter
bin, held for a while, his clothes and mobile phone seized, bailed
until April obviously one of many intimidation tactics the police were
trying on that day.) They show no surprise, no self-pity or hyperbolic
selfdramatization, just a resolute sense of what needs to be done, and
a delight in doing it. I enjoyed it, looking forward to next week... I
ask one of them what he does. He says his friend is already to
college; he will be going next year. But it's not just about that
..... It wasn't just about him; it wasn't just about tuition fees, or
era ... It's not just about that ... We are no longer that
postideological generation Contrast what the fifteen year old in the
video above says with some of the responses from the "liberal"
commentaries those who belong the real "postideological generation",
if ever there was one. For Deborah Orr, it's business as usual.
Resistance to capitalist realism remains futile. "It is sometimes
suggested that there is little protest against the cuts, except from
students and schoolchildren, because adults are too craven and
apathetic to stand up and be counted. The truth is that they are too
wise to waste their energy on something so silly. Protesting against
the cuts is like protesting against water's stubborn habit of flowing
downwards." Compare also with David Aaronvitch on Newsnight: the
avuncular grey vampire body posture, that performance of simultaneous
weariness and infinite ease in the world, the jaded fatalism passed
off as mature wisdom. Yes, of course, I would have gone on the marches
when I was a student, bu f of course I know better now.... It's little
different to an argument made by Richard Littlejohn: the protestors
will be the next generation of politicians ... As if that's what they
want, as if, even if that ended up being true, it would diminish
what's happening now... 3.15 PM December 1st. In one of the dreamlike
transitions that are becoming increasingly common in the new
atmosphere, I am sitting in the fuel occupation, when in walks Richard
Seymour to give a talk on the recent history of the Tory party. The
students at fuel have been holding Room 101 for a week., since Day X2.
Things have changed rapidly in the space of those seven days; they are
changing all the time. There are now banners draped all over the
central concourse of UEL's palladian Docklands campus. Elsewhere,
occupations are sprouting everywhere, like unexpected wildflowers. The
only thing I can compare the current situation with is emerging from a
state of deep depression. There's the rush that you get simply from
not being depressed any more the occasional lurching anxieties, a
sense of how precarious it all seems (don't drag me back into nothing)
and yet not only is it maintaining itself, it's proliferating,
intensifying, feeding on itself it's impossible, but it's happening
the reality programme resetting itself David Cameron's response is
both patronising and misjudged. The students should understand what
they are protesting against before they protest. Yet it's clearly
Cameron who doesn't have a handle on the current situation (who
does?). As Richard argued in his talk at the fuel occupation, these
flabby toffs don't have the experience, the strategic intelligence or
the ideological consistency to win a bitter fight. Cameron was a Tory
leader constructed in, and geared up for, the pre2008 "consensus of
indifference" (Baudrillard) he didn't expect a struggle, certainly not
with those who intend to win. What Cameron doesn't grasp, doesn't want
to grasp, is the way that the fees are only the immediate cause of the
new militancy. What has been provoked is a generalised discontent with
nothing less than capitalist realism itself. 5.30 PM, December 2nd.
Neoliberalism isn't working I've been stuck on Dartford station for
ninety minutes. No trains moving in either direction. Noone knows
where the trains are, or if they will be able to travel any further
even if they arrive. One train tried to head further south, but it
only got a hundred yards out of the station before having to stop.
Official communication is minimal, but only has the status of rumour
any way. The railway workers, bereft of reliable information, tell you
one thing, then find it immediately contradicted by developments. Are
the buses running? Who can say? ... I strike up conversation with
someone who happens to be heading to my destination. The usual
complaints and bemusement. Why does everything in the UK have to be so
crappy?. He's a casual worker, worried that his Christmas will be
ruined if this weather keeps up. If he doesn't go to work, he doesn't
get paid, and he already had to have a week off for flu. Frail hopes
of a train receding, we consider options we're less than ten miles
from where we want to be, but we could end up having to stay in a
hotel. Then he gets a phone call; a friend will pick him up, and he
can give me a lift. As we stand shivering and drinking coffee from the
station cafe bar, the news comes over the radio. Russia to get the
2018 World Cup. It feels as if the winter closing in around Cameron.
Neoliberalism isn't working. No joy for Cameron and the other members
of the ruling class Holy Trinity the Prince and David Beckham, the
poster boy for New labourers celebrity soccer. The grimly smirking
pugin arrives last minute to claim the prize. All the boom gloss is
falling away, and England feels soldier and shabbier than it ever did
in the 70s. Saturday December 4th. I'm following the news of the UK
Uncut protests on Twitter. In the cold of the kettle on Day X1, it
occurred to me that the best place to be kettle would be in a shopping
mall, where the containment tactics would massively inconvenience
capital. But the movement is well ahead of me .... Flash mobs invade a
number of Top Shop stores across the country. IT is right about the
crucial significance of this kind of intervention, which "indicates,
among other things, an absolute fatigue with the corporate face of
city centres." And also a fatigue with the mandarincelebrity status of
figures like Green. Discontent with celebritywealth culture has long
been like an indelible shadow that no amount of digital manipulation
could quite eradicate, but, until recently, the persistent sense that
something is missing amidst all this conspicuous consumption and
listless hedonism has had no outlet or agent. The image above is so
evocative because it suddenly suggests an outside, an effective
interruption of the blank trance you can see in the model's abstracted
eyes, which reflect our own ... Day X3, December 9th. There's long
been a discrepancy between culture and the postcrash situation. It's
now evident that the New Fifties are over the scenery still survives,
but you can push your fingers through it. Paul Mason talks of a
"dubstep rebellion", and, although it would be churlish to complain
about Mason's report, given that he was one of the very few mainstream
media commentators to properly engage with the movement, Dan hanson is
surely right: it wasn't dusted that was being played last Thursday but
"rnb, bashment, road rap, american hip-hop and albeit only once or
twice grime". What's striking here is the lack of any political
content, or even "Pow" excepted much anger in the music that was
played. What we can hear exemplified, in fact, is the disengagement
from politics that Jeremy Gilbert has persuasively argued was typical
of the is hardcore continuum: "given the social and political
radicalism characterising most of their immediate antecedents (acid
house, with its origins in the black gay clubs of Chicago; hiphop,
only recently having left its 'golden age' of political consciousness;
reggae, with its history of anti-capitalism and antiracism), as well
as the traditional radicalism of their core constituency the
multiracial poor of urban London the music scenes of the 'nuum' were
notable for their detachment from any kind of politics, their embrace
of competitive entrepreneurial values, and their defence of
masculinist and heterosexist norms which other dance cultures were
busily and visibly deconstructing at just that moment." What we've
grown accustomed to is a split between leftist political commitments
and the most vibrant, experimental dance musics. No doubt this is an
aspect of capitalist realism, and it's no accident that I referred to
Simon's 1996 piece on hardship in Capitalist Realism. In fact, it
might well have been the case that the central concept of the book was
triggered by Simon's commentary on "keeping it real" there: Real is a
neoMedieval scenario; you could compare downsizing to enclosure, where
the aristocracy threw the peasants off the land and reduced them to a
vagabond underclass. Like gangs rap, Jungle reflects a Medieval
paranoiascape of robber barons, pirate corporations, conspiracies and
covert operations. Hence the popularity as a source of samples and
song titles of martial arts films and gangs movies like The Godfather,
Reservoir Dogs, Goodfellas, Pulp Fiction, whose universe revolves
around concepts of righteous violence and bloodhonour that predate the
liberal, social-democratic era. ... The pervasive sense of slipping
into a new Dark Age, of an insidious breakdown of the social contract,
generates anxieties that are repressed but resurface in unlikely ways
and places. Resistance doesnt necessarily take the logical form of
collective activism (unions, leftwing politics); it can be so
distorted and imaginatively impoverished by the conditions of
capitalism itself, that it express itself as, say, the protofascist,
anticorporate nostalgia of Americas rightwing militias, or as a sort
of hyperindividualistic survivalism.In hip-hop and, increasingly,
Jungle, the response is a realism that accepts a sociallyconstructed
reality as natural. To get real is to confront a stateofnature where
dog eats dog, where youre either a winner or a loser, and where most
will be losers. Theres a cold rage seething in Jungle, but its
expressed within the terms of an anti-capitalist yet non-socialist
politics, and expressed defensively: as a determination that the
underground will not be coopted by the mainstream. To any journalists
out there who might be reading this .... Remember why you wanted to be
a journalist in the first place? Remember when you didn't think the
job was going to be all about copying out press releases and typing up
celebrity gossip fed to you by PRs? Well, here's your chance to
actually do some reporting and some investigating. Find out how this:
Became this: To start you off with your research, here's some
interesting background reading (via @domfox) Seriously, anyone who has
any influence in the media pressure your editors to make this the
story ... at the moment where despair ends and tactics begin Friends
On the afternoon of Wednesday December th 2010 an Emergency General
Assembly will take place at the University of East London (details
below) On the same day an important seminar on the politics of 'pain'
in an age of austerity will be held at the same site (details below)
The following morning, a public seminar and discussion on the crisis
in higher education and the politics and practicalities of protest
will be held at 10:00, allowing time for all participants to convene
with the occupation afterwards and to travel to central London to join
the major demonstration at 1:00pm (details below) for any further
information contact J.Gilbert@uel.ac.uk Occupying Students at the
University of East London have called an Emergency General Assembly at
13:00 in the main lecture theatre (next to the library Docklands
Campus, Cyprus DLR) on Wednesday December th to address the crisis
facing the university, as management threatens to roll out
redundancies without consulting staff unions and continues to deny
students democratic representation, as the voided elections to the
students' union, declared illegitimate last Spring, have STILL not
been rerun. fuel is in many ways a test case for the next wave of
anti-democratic neo-liberal managerialism across the public sector so
this issue affects all of us. All staff and students are asked to
attend the meeting; sympathetic observers are unlikely to be turned
away. fuel Centre for Cultural Studies Research presents A Public
Symposium: The Politics of Pain 8 December 2010, 15:00 to 17:00 'Pain'
has become central to the discourse of the coalition government as it
embarks on its cuts programme. The cuts are inevitable, we are told,
and the pain must be shared in the interests of fairness. But is the
pain necessary, should it be shared, is it really being shared, how
will the pain affect the social fabric, and what are the psychosocial
consequences of the crisis? This is the second seminar in the Centre
for Cultural Studies Researchs three-part Debt, Pain, Work series that
interrogates the discourses and policies of the coalition government.
(NB: A full audio recording of our last seminar, 'The Politics of
Debt', is now available at http://culturalstudiesresearch.org/)
Speakers: Kate Pickett, Professor of Epidemiology at the University of
York, coauthor of The Spirit Level: Why More Equal Societies Almost
Always Do Better Mike Rustin, Professor of Sociology in the School of
Humanities and Social Sciences at fuel and author of The Good Society
and the Inner World Jeremy Gilbert Reader in Cultural Studies in the
School of Humanities and Social Sciences at fuel and author of anti-
capitalism and Culture: Radical Theory and Popular Politics For more
Information and for a full audio recording of the last event in this
series see http://culturalstudiesresearch.org/ fuel Docklands Campus
Transport: Cyprus dr station is located right next to the campus (just
follow signs out of the station) Room EB.G.14 (Ground Floor, East
Building, which is to the left on entering the main square from Cyprus
station) All Welcome no booking required AS SOON AS THIS SYMPOSIUM HAS
FINISHED THE ORGANISERS WILL INVITE ALL PARTICIPANTS TO VISIT THE fuel
OCCUPATION FOR FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE ISSUES FACING THOSE IN
STRUGGLE AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT'S CURRENT WAVE OF CUTS, AT fuel AND
FURTHER AFIELD Thursday December th 2010 10:0011:00 (possibly carrying
on a bit longer...) The Crisis in the Universities and the Politics of
Protest Debra benito Shaw (UEL), Jeremy Gilbert (UEL), Stephen
Maddison (UEL) will lead an open seminar on the issues, and offer some
practical guidelines on safe and legal protest Room EB.3.19 (Third
floor, main building, turn left on entering main square from Cyprus
DLR) Suggested Readings: Raymond Williams 'Why Do I Demonstrate?'
http://www.culturalstudies.org.uk/WhydoIdemonstrate.PDF Jeremy Gilbert
'Elitism, Philistinism and Populism: the sorry tale of British Higher
Education Policy' http://www.opendemocracy.net/ourkingdom/jeremygilber
t/elitismphilistinismandpopulismsorrytaleofbritishhighereducationp
Andrew Robinson and Simon Tormey 'New Labours neo-liberal
Gleichschaltung: the case of higher education'
http://www.commoner.org.uk/07robinson&tormey.pdf Paul Bowman 'The
ConDemned' http://www.newleftproject.org/index.php/site/blogcomments/t
heConDemned/ Advice for protestors: Comprehensive 'bust card' info to
carry with you in case of unwelcome police attention here: https://lon
don.indymedia.org/system/fileupload/2010/11/21/303/bustcard.pdf Useful
anti'kettling' tactics discussed here:
http://www.permanentrevolution.net/entry/3208 How not to get
kettled...: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O0jKvgS7olo (More here)No
left turn into Parliamentary Square, flashed a sign as we marched
through Whitehall last Wednesday. But all the other signs are
suggesting quite the opposite: there's a tentative but very definite
shift to the left in the mainstream, nowhere better exemplified than
by NUS President Aaron Porter's admission that he had been "spineless"
in failing to support student militancy. This leftward lean by the NUS
which has long been a bastion of capitalist realist moderation is a
significant symptomatic moment. See also Polly Toynbee's slight shift
away from centrist condescension, as evidenced in the difference in
tone and stance between these two pieces Don't worry, I haven't given
up logging nor do I value logging any less than I used to. The reason
there have been no posts here for ages is the because the pressure of
precocity has reached a new pitch of intensity. I'm teaching two
undergraduate courses, an MA course and adult ed this term at three
different institutions. That plus a relentless round of public
speaking means that I'm counting my time off in minutes at the moment.
I don't even have time to invoice for money that I'm owed. If you've
mailed me and I haven't responded, please email again it's just
impossible for me to keep up at the moment so I welcome reminders.
Apropos the above, I present below something I wrote for this
excellent event one of a number of recent events at which I've spoken
that have prompted all kinds of thoughts which I would have liked to
have recorded here, if only there was time (a hundred virtual posts
slowly dying as the unyielding pressure of precocity builds). What I'm
pleased to report is that, at all the events I've spoken at recently,
there is a growing feeling of militant optimism. We saw the first
significant displays of public anger at the student protests last
week, and the mockhorrified response of the mainstream media to this
mild "violence" shows how out of touch it and parliamentary politics
is with the postcrash mood. Of course, they are not only out of touch
like the coalition government, they are working desperately hard to
maintain the simulation of a businessfriendly "centre ground", the
conditions for which were vaporised by the 2008 crash. The passage
I've pasted below the introduction to my presentation, which was
entitled "We're not all in this together: public space and antagonism
in the wake of capitalist realism" was intended to be a kind of
minimally fictionalised phenomenological tuning exercise, to give a
predominantly non-uk audience a sense of what it has been like to live
in the UK under capitalist realism. Everything here is based on
genuine experiences, although some experiences have been compressed
and condensed, and the experiences are not necessarily mine. The swipe
card doesnt work. The machine senses anxiety, youre sure of it. It
knows the card is not yours. You try the card again. Nothing. Same red
light. The card isnt yours, but you should have access to the
building. You had to borrow someone elses card because it is only
possible to get swipe cards between the hours of 9 and 1 and you are
working at these times. Someone is behind you. You feel uncomfortable.
Will they notice that the card does not belong to you? You try the
card again. Again nothing. Red light.Your phone rings. You struggle to
get it out of the bag. By the time you have it, the call has gone
through to the answering service. You see that the call has come from
another of your employers. A familiar anxiety grips you: what have you
done wrong now? But you have no time to worry about that at the
moment. You try the swipe card again. At last, the green light comes
on. Youre through the door. Rushing down the corridor. Which floor
were you supposed to be on? You rifle through your bag until you find
the documentation. You should be on this floor, but at the other end
of the corridor. You walk towards the room number. But suddenly your
progress is blocked. There is a no entry sign: an office that cuts the
corridor in half and through which there is no access. Its a nightmare
topology. Every time you seem to get close, another obstacle appears.
You will have to go out of the corridor, down the stairs and up to the
next set of stairs, facing a number of swipe cardaccess doors on the
way.By now the five minutes you hoped to have before you start is
evaporating rapidly. By the time you reach the room you were heading
for, you are already late. You logon to the computer. Or you try to.
The login is rejected. You try again. No luck. Then you remember:
youre trying a login from one of the other institutions that you work
at. Its difficult to keep track sometimes. You remember the correct
login, quickly scan one of your email accounts. See an email from an
administrator. Have you filled in your bank details form? Yes, youve
filled it in, you think. Weeks ago. But of course you cant be sure
maybe you only thought you had filled it in. Have they lost it? Flash
of anxiety: will I not be paid this month? Last year, when you filled
in all the same forms that you have to complete again this year, you
were not paid for a whole fifty-four contract, until you pointed out
the mistake. Will the same thing happen again? But theres no time to
worry about this now. You have a room of seventy students waiting to
be taught. Such is life in the UKs bloated and over funded public
institutions. Welcome to Liberty City. The busier you are, the less
you see. Ten years ago: the neath Institute The psychiatrist asks you
if your mood has improved. You say no. The psychiatrist says that the
dose needs to be increased. You dont respond. You cant. The drugs
youre taking and the condition you are suffering from give you the
cottoned response time of a zombie. The psychiatrist feels very far
away, like you are seeing him through a fisher lens. You dont need to
respond. Its not about your responses. Besides, theres a sneering
voice in your head constantly shouting at you. Of course the drugs
wont work. Of course you wont get better. Because theres nothing wrong
with you.We're all in this together Capitalist realism everywhere ...
On television yesterday morning, the relentless message coming from
pundits and vox pops even from most of those who reject the particular
form that the cuts have taken was that "something had to be done". The
Great Bullingdon Club Swindle is larceny and deception on such a grand
scale that one almost has to admire its breathtaking audacity. The
Bullingdon Club has pushed Doublethink to new limits with its matric
repetition of the ludicrous claim that it was New Labour policy,
rather than the bank bailouts, that was responsible for the massive
deficit. The strategy seems to be to employ the illocutionary power of
repetition if they keep saying it, then it will have been true. The
Bullingdon boys are working a mass hypnosis trick, forcing through
shock doctrine measures while the population are still in a kind of
postcrash trance. But where, previously, neo-liberal had used the
crises in other political systems (state socialism, social democracy)
as an opportunity to helicopter in their 'reforms', on this occasion
they are using a crisis brought about by neo-liberal policy itself to
try to electroshock the neo-liberal programme back into life. I heard
one buffoon on television saying that "we've been in denial for the
last ten years". If there's denial, it's happened in the last two
years, and on the part of the neo-liberal and their friends in the
business elite, who after demanding at gunpoint unprecedented sums of
public money are now brazenly continuing to peddle the story that they
are the friend of the taxpayer and that it is welfare claimants, not
them, who are the scroungers who have brought the country to the
"brink of bankruptcy". In what must surely be the most astonishing
bait and switch in British parliamentary history, the victims of neo-
liberal policy public services and the poor are now being asked (or
rather forced) to pay for the manifest and total failure of that
policy. As John Gray argues in the LRB, it's no surprise that Orange
Bookers like the "wolfeyed replicant" Nick Clegg as China neville
memorably described him are happy to impose on the country the same
neo-liberal programme that they have imposed on their own party. Even
so, has there even been a party that has so comprehensively and so
quickly squandered the good will of those who voted for them as have
the Lib Dems? Cuddly Vince Cable's grinning excuse for the
backtracking on student fees was a masterclass in capitalist realism,
as he practically said, "well, that's what happens when you get into
power you give up your principles." (Cable is increasingly looking
like a villain from a John Grisham flick, the avuncular eminence rise
whose charm lures you into the firm, before being revealed to be a
sinister embezzling fraudster.) For months now, we've been sold the
story that public services are 'bloated'. There's no doubt that New
Labour mismanaged public services and wasted money on managers, on
market Stalinist control procedures imported in from business, and on
GPs' ludicrously over-inflated salaries. But the narrative of an
overfunded public sector produce cognitive dissonance for those of us
who have actually been delivering frontline public services in the
last ten years, where we've been expected to do more work for less
money and with fewer resources. If those were the good times, you can
only feel a shudder of dread anticipating what it will be like when
things are bad. Incidentally, if you've wondered why there have been
so few posts here in the last month or so, it's because I've been
trying to piece together a living as a visiting (i.e. casualised)
lecturer, working in institutions that are strained to breaking point
by neo-liberal 'reforms'. Cuts will mean more casualisation, in those
institutions that will be able to survive at all. But the most
breathtaking aspect of the Bullingdon swindle is the "we're all in
this together" slogan, rightly described by Seumas Milne as
"preposterous". What we're seeing now is the Terminator of Capital
with its neoliberalmanagerialist mask wrecked, and the Big Society
(Victoriana 2.0) ruse not convincing anyone. The doughy, fatoftheland
face of privilege now shows itself openly, exuding the emollient
manner of noblesse oblige, but without any sense of obligation. What
survives is pure ideological reflex, the decorticated Terminator
blindly blasting at its usual tragets: public services, welfare, the
arts. It's folk economic fauxwisdom ("if a household overspends, we
know that we have to give up things we'd rather keep") that is
providing the smokescreen for this ideological assault. Myths and
deliberately cultivated misapprehensions abound: judging from all the
rhetoric, you'd think that education and the arts were drains on the
economy, rather than the highly successful "businesses" that they in
fact function as. Nevertheless, it's crucial that we recognise that
this is a time of opportunity for the left. Laurie Penny is right that
the Labour Party does not have the answers at the moment. Yet the
Labour Party's current lack of an agenda can be seen as a good thing,
for two reasons. Firstly, at least this means that Labour has lost the
managerialist neo-liberal agenda that defined it for the last fifteen
years. The renew Labourization process will take a while, but it will
be expedited much quicker with Ed Miliband as leader than it ever
would have been with David at the helm. (Notice how David whom the
media were presenting as a great lost leader, a kind of worldhistoric
statesman, on the grounds, presumably, that Hilary Clinton took a
fancy to him is already a forgotten man. In the media's soap
narrative, David's leaving front bench politics was an open wound
which the Labour Party would take years to recover that doesn't quite
seem to be the case.) Secondly, the fact that the postBlair and Brown
Labour Party is now a coredout shell means that it is a space, which
it is at least plausible that could be filled by new ideas and
strategies. For the first time in fifteen years, the future of the
Labour Party is not fixed. It's worth remembering at this point that
the failures of the Labour Party, its succumbing to capitalist
realism, is not just the consequences of the internal logic of the
party. It was extra-parliamentary forces that gave rise to the Labour
Party in the first place; it was the defeat of those forces that drove
the Labour Party into its craven placing of business in the New Labour
era. If Labour is to be anything more than a zombie party once again,
it will be new forms of extra-parliamentary organisation that revivify
it. For that reason, this is definitely not the time to recline into
the leftist version of capitalist realism, the defeatist counterpart
to the Bullingdon club's bullishness. Now is the time to organise and
agitate. The cuts can provide a galvanising focus for an anti-
capitalist campaign that can succeed. Protests in these conditions
won't have the hubristic impotence of anti-capitalist 'feelgood
feelbad' carnivals and kettles. This is shaping up to be a bitter
struggle, but there are specific, determinate and winnable goals that
can be achieved here: it isn't a question of taking a peashooter to
the juggernaut of capital. The UK, the first capitalist country, is
the world capital of apathy, diffidence and reflexive impotence. But
it is also a country that periodically explodes into rage. Beneath
todays's ideological trance, beneath the capitalist realist
hopelessness, an anger simmers here that it is our task to focus and
coordinate. Public displays of rage can play an enormously significant
role in shifting the symbolic terrain that is currently governed by
capitalist realism. I know there are some who see parallels between
now and the initial phases of the first Thatcher government. But
Thatcher had a number of factors on her side which the Bullingdon boy
don't. Firstly, Thatcherism was part of a wider global restructuring
of capitalism the objective tide of history was on its side. But
global capital has not yet found a solution to the problems that led
to the banking crisis. Secondly, this shift from Fordism to post-
fordism allowed Thatcher to offer inducements that can't be repeated:
cheap shares from formerly nationalised companies, the sales of
council houses. The nationalised companies have long since been sold
off, and their private counterparts have in most cases failed to
deliver the promised increases in consumer satisfaction although they
have certainly delivered massive profits to those who do hold shares
in them. Now all we can look forward to are spiralling energy bills
and higher train fares. There are no council houses to sell indeed,
the coalition is planning to effectively end what is left of social
housing in this country for good, by forcing up council tenants'
rates, and limiting tenancies to five years. Thirdly, there was of
course the Falklands but, since the Forces are already stretched
threadbare, where are the resources for such a neo-colonialism
intervention now, and would jingoism function in the same way in 2010
that it did in 1982? Fourthly, there was Thatcher herself a divisive
but charismatic politician, who could plausibly present herself as
struggling against vested interests, not only on the left, but also in
the British establishment. The current Tory government has none of
these advantages, and the neo-liberal right in general has lost
control of the future, much as it refuses to acknowledge this. In the
Standard, Anne mcevoy recently described Ed Miliband as "an
unreconstructed social democrat". From what position does mcevoy think
she is speaking here? Like much of the mainstream media, which is
contriving to carry on as if 2008 didn't happen, mcevoy is desperately
clinging to the myth of a political "centre ground" that no longer has
any legitimacy. After the bank bailouts, the neo-liberal settlement is
just as dead as social democracy. The "we're all in this together"
slogan may turn out to be a phrase that comes to haunt the Tories in
the way that "Labour isn't working" dogged Labour for a generation.
Classlessness might have seemed plausible for a moment when fronted by
John Major, who didn't go to university, or by Tony Blair, the poster
boy for (leftist) postpolitical administration. But that moment has
long passed, and cuts of this kind being forced through by a cabinet
of aristocrats and millionaires make brutally apparent a class
antagonism that the New Labour government obfuscated. Whenever the
ruling class tells us that "we're all on the same side", it is a sure
sign that we can hurt them. Similarly, the current media phobia about
unions is an indication of the power that they have at this time.
History is starting again, which means that nothing is fixed and there
are no guarantees. Right wing victory is only inevitable if we think
that it is. 31 October  14:00 22:00Woodmill, necking Depot, SE16
3QNNeckingerLondon, United Kingdom Sunday just October pm pm Organised
by Tom trevett and cary Coleman Speakers:...Amanda Beech, Mark Fisher,
Simon Clark and more TBC Screening of George Romero's Martin Free, but
booking essential, please email tom@woodmill.org  The Real Horror
symposium brings into question the relation between reality and
horror. The proposition is that both horror and reality share a common
ground, that horrific relations occur within the realm of realism.
Real Horror extends from Graham Harman's reading of cult gothic
novelist H.P. hovercraft in his essay On the Horror of Phenomenology
where he suggests that a philosophy that can tell us about reality has
to be judged by what it can tell us about Lovecraft. Harman develops
what he describes as a Weird Realism, utilising a Lovecraftian linitis
to explore an objective reality made up of strange and withdrawn
objects in terrifying vistas where humans become subject to objective
terrors rather than masters of them. Lovecraft's tales tell of a world
outside of human access, a world where an objective reality reigns; he
is therefore the horror writer par excellence of the recent
Speculative Realism movement. Decades after Lovecrafts death in the
1930s, postmodern horror cinema ignited in 1968 with Roman Polanskis
Rosemarys Baby and George Romeros Night of the Living Dead. These
films marked the elevated reflection on the societal, cultural, and
political realities of everyday life and solidified that what is most
frightening to us isnt a monster in a castle but what appears in the
familiar that surrounds us. This closeness of horror to everyday life
exists in tension with Lovecraft's mythic world, yet draws from it,
proposing the explosion of the nonhuman within the realm of the human;
drawing the external through into the internal. Reflecting on this
reciprocal relationship between an expression of horror and reality,
organisers Tom trevett and cary Coleman have invited london-based
artists, writers, and curators to address the ways in which they
tackle horror as a realist subject. During the one-day symposium on
Halloween a series of presentations, artist films, conversations, and
a film screening will take place to expand upon the many possibilities
of horror. The event will be followed by ghoulish cocktails. I should
have linked to this before ... but for those who haven't seen it yet,
here's Alex Andrews interviewing me about capitalist realism for
Ceasefire Magazine. http://www.pbiscampaigning.org/Conference with
October 201010am4pmUniversity of London UnionMalet StreetLondon
WC1This conference will present new research on issues related to the
pointsbased immigration system (PBIS) as it affects Further and Higher
Education. This is a system that unfairly restricts the ability of
international students and staff to come to the UK, turns staff into
immigration officials and treats international students as potential
threats to national security.The conference will assess:a) the wider
significance of immigration;b) the full consequences of pbs on the
universityc) the characteristics of new systems of regulation and
surveillance in universities and colleges.The conference aims to offer
both expertise in research but also a focus for campaigners who object
to the fundamentally discriminatory nature of the rules.Speakers:Les
Back (Goldsmiths)Tom Hickey (Brighton)Georg men (Goldsmiths)Liz feet
(Institute of Race Relations)Edgar Whitley (LSE)Valerie harwich
(Manifesto Club)Joel Heyes (UKBA worker and PCS rep)Susan Robertson
(Bristol)Andy coffey (Middlesex)SuAnne Yeo (Goldsmiths)Clare Solomon
(ULU)This event is free of charge. Please go to the 'contact' page to
register.http://www.pbiscampaigning.org/contactSupported by
Universities and Colleges Union, University of London Union, Manifesto
Club and the Centre for Cultural Studies, Department of Politics,
Department of Media & Communications at GoldsmithsThe Centre for
Cultural Studies ResearchSchool of Humanities and Social
SciencesUniversity of East London presents: The Politics of Debt: a
Seminar October with 2010, 2:00pm500pm Concepts and experiences of
debt have become central to the management of contemporary capitalism,
to understandings of its consequences and to social experience at
every scale. National debt, personal debt, ecological debt are key
issues for understanding contemporary culture and politics. But what
exactly is debt? Can we manage without it? Are current levels of
personal, national, corporate and ecological debt sustainable; and
what are the origins of this most fundamental concept? speakers: anita
Chakrabortty, The Guardian, New Political Economy Network Joe Cox,
Campaigns Organiser at Compass, organiser of the Compass campaign
against legal loan sharing Massimo De Angelis, UEL, author of The
Beginning of History: Value Struggles and Global Capital,
Keynesianism, Social Conflict and Political Economy. David Graeber,
Goldsmiths College, author of Possibilities: Essays on Hierarchy,
Rebellion and Desire and Direct Action: an Ethnography, currently
working on a history of debt. fuel Docklands Campus Cyprus dr station
the station is literally at the campus Room EB.G.16 (Ground Floor,
East Building East Building is to the left on entering the main square
from Cyprus station) All welcome, no need to book in advanceFurther
info contact Jeremy Gilbert: j.gilbert@uel.ac.uk I'm speaking to the
Compass North and East London group about capitalist realism a week
tomorrow ... it won't just be a retreat of the book; I'll also be
talking about the implications and opportunities of some of the issues
raised in CR for mainstream politics ... Time: Tuesday September with
8:00 pmPlace: The function room of The Islington Tap, 80 Liverpool
Road, London, N1 0QDFree, no booking required Thanks to all the
speakers at the accelerationist event last week, and thanks, too, for
all the excellent questions from the floor. I felt much clearer about
what accelerationist is and how it might function as an anti-
capitalist strategy after the event, even though it quickly became
clear that the many issues which the event was addressing could not be
dealt with in such a short space of time ... but I'm hoping that this
is only the beginning. I would like to promise that I will post up my
reflections on accelerationist soon, but given all my work commitments
and the (biological) bug I've got at the moment, that might be rash.
Go to Speculative Heresy for a comprehensive set of links; and I'm
pleased to say that the podcasts of all the talks are now available at
the excellent Backdoor Broadcasting Company. A heads up: Reza
Negarestani, one of the key contributors to the accelerationist
debate, will be at Goldsmiths for an event entitled Decay Culture on
January with more details to follow soon. (This originally appeared in
Dublin's Visual Artsts' News Sheet) On the surface, Christopher Nolans
Inception seems to be a very Escheresque film. At one point, one of
the characters, Arthur, instructs another by using the example of the
Penrose stairs which have the same impossible structure as Eschers
famous "Ascending and Descending". Inception has many merits, but
ultimately it isnt actually very Escheresque. In his Gdel, Escher,
Bach, Douglas Hofstadter argues that the defining characteristic of
most of Eschers signature images is the strange loop or tangled
hierarchy. This is where a distinct hierarchy of levels is set up,
only to be disrupted as in "Ascending and Descending", we appear to go
up and down levels but eventually find ourselves back at the same
point. In Inception, the different levels are constituted by dreams
which, in the reality of the film can be invaded by spies trying to
raid the subjects mind for business secrets. logger Carl Neville
argues that each of these dreamlevels corresponds with a different
film genre: Level one dream is basically The Bourne Identity rainy,
grey, urban. Level two is The Matrix, zero gravity fistfights in a
modernist hotel, level three, depressingly, turns out to be a
Seventies Bond film. In the ordinary phenomenon of the dream within
dream, we appear to wake up, but in fact are still dreaming (it is
worth noting here that this structure is somewhat stranger than its
description makes it appear in that it is the first dream that
retrospectively becomes the dream embedded within the second dream.)
These dreams within dreams are a question of narrative sequence. One
dream succeeds another, but then produces the (narrative) illusion of
a different ontological level. This is analogous with the logic of
what media theorists call retcon, or retroactive continuity.
Continuity is achieved by retroactively changing the status of what
was previously taken for reality. (Its no accident that the most
famous example of reason one whole season of Dallas being
retroactively redefined as a dream sequence involved dreaming.) Far
from the second dream being really contained within the first, its
whole existence depends upon the dissolution of the first. The
appearance of different levels is a narrative effect generated by the
retroactive continuity of the dream state. There is only one level of
real physicalcausal dependence the dream relies upon the body of the
dreamer remaining asleep. (Which is partly why Lacan claimed that the
goal of dreaming was to keep the dreamer asleep.) But the dreams
within dreams in Inception differ in at least two respects from this.
Firstly, there is no time when someone wakes up from a previous dream
and remembers it as a dream. Rather, the subjects just leap into
another dreamspace. Nolan includes a scene explaining that this is how
dreams work we are always thrown into the middle of them. Secondly,
Nolan produces a dream architecture in which there are multiple levels
of real rather than apparent dependence. In Inception, each dream
within a dream depends upon the dream one level up continuing in the
background. To go down a level to pass, for instance, from Bourne
Identity level dream to Matrix level dream the characters have to fall
asleep in the first-level dream. In other words, Nolan expands what in
ordinary dreaming is a two-tier structure (the sleeping body and the
dream) into a potentially infinite regress. As they go down a level,
each character acquires a new dreambody, but this avtar depends upon a
virtual catatonic body one level up. The dream altars at Bond movie
dream level3, then, can only continue to exist while the virtual
catatonic bodies at level and level and their real physical bodies all
remain asleep. In ordinary dreams, the physical body is effectively a
level 0, and when something happens in/to the physical body, these
physical/ neurological events are motivated by the dream as narrative
shifts (hence the wellknown phenomenon of alarm clocks becoming sirens
in dreams and such like). Nolans proliferation of virtual catatonic
bodies means that this translation of physical stimuli into dreamwork
also proliferates, with each level acting as a quasiphysical level
cause for what lies beneath it. The most obvious example of this in
the film is the way that the tumbling of the van off a bridge at level
becomes converted into zero gravity at level2. So Inception has a
well-formed hierarchy. But what stops the film being properly
Escheresque is that the hierarchy is never disrupted. By contrast with
David Cronenbergs films Videodrome and Existenz, in which ostensibly
embedded realities start to affect ontologically superior higher
levels, the different reality levels in Inception remain securely
delimited. Causality only runs one way downward from the higher to the
lower levels. No doubt it is the linear demands of the action film
that militate against the eerie impasse and uncanny topographies of
the strange loop. My mix for the wonderful postpone is available here.
I'm very pleased with how this turned out., and I've been listening to
it repeatedly myself. I sequenced the tracks, and Piotr from postpone
did a great job of mixing them. Thanks also to martin from postpone
for all his help. Like I say in my notes on the mix, it's best
listened to after dark. The six or so minutes of Jeckabstraction at
the beginning act as a kind of palatecleanser and a threshold crossing
into the weird world of crackle ... Alex Andrews has now been added to
the list of speakers at the accelerationist event. That means that we
will be aiming to start promptly at 1.30. Please note that there is no
need to register for the event, but, as it is likely to be popular,
you are advised to arrive early. Some readers who can't attend have
been asking if there will be a precast of the event. I'm delighted to
say that the afternoon's talks will be recorded by the Backdoor
Broadcasting Company who always do a superb job. We should have titles
from all speakers and a running order in the next day or so. As soon
as the details are finalised, I'll post them here. My talk will be
entitled "Terminator Vs Avatar". In the meantime, here's a moodsetting
mix of jungle, techstep, dromore and techno, entitled "No Killing What
Can't Be Killed". It's designed to be heard on tunes with crossfire
set to 6 seconds.The cover of the Czech edition of Capitalist Realism
thanks to Michal riba for arranging the translation I was pleased and
surprised to see Capitalist Realism mentioned in Fabio Gironi's
excellent introductory essay in the Speculations journal, ScienceLaden
Theory: Outlines of an Unsettled Alliance. I think that Fabio's piece
will soon become the first stop for people who want to get a handle on
speculative realism. I would, however, like to take up a point that
Fabio makes in the footnotes not for the sake of quibbling, but
because it will allow me to clarify and extend claims that might have
been ambiguous or underdeveloped. Fabio writes: I absolutely agree
with the last point. I certainly wasn't meaning to suggest an absolute
fit between capitalism and the internet, or anything of that sort;
indeed I don't mention the internet at all in the passage that Fabio
cites. I was thinking more of word processing or Photoshop than the
internet, actually. Clearly, the relationship between these infinitely
reliable forms and the control techniques of indefinite postponement
that I describe in Capitalist Realism is more than analogous. I meant
the emphasis to be on capitalism's reliance on/ homology with the
digital rather than on any inherent tendency in digitally "towards"
capitalism. At the same time, I do think that the kind of critique
that Jodi Dean has made of communicative capitalism is absolutely
crucial. If ever there was a case for something being appraised
"dialectically", then the internet is it. But at this point, I think
we need to talk about cyberspace rather than just the internet.
Technology such as smart phones mean that, increasingly, we are not
"using the internet" so much as we are inside the total environment of
cyberspace. Earlier in the same note, Fabio refers to my claims that
the young in particular are "too wired to concentrate" and that "[t]he
consequence of being hooked into the entertainment matrix is twitchy,
agitated interpassivity, an inability to concentrate or focus." Aptly
enough, with the accelerationist event coming up, the phrase "too
wired to concentrate" comes from Nick Land's great piece
"Cybergothic". "Wired" here, evidently, means connected as well as
hyped up. In writing those passages, I had one eye on Foucault (or
Deleuze's reconstruction of Foucault in the "Societies of Control"
essay) and the other on McLuhan. Being "too wired to concentrate" is
not inherently a problem; indeed, in many contexts outside the
classroom is often an advantage. But such attentional dispersion is a
problem when it is inserted into the old concentrationaldisciplinary
system, where it is massively dysfunctional. Many of the current and
upcoming crises of education will turn on this mismatch, and there's a
class dimension here. I suspect that literate students are likely to
gain even more advantages in the future, as literacy becomes an ever
rarer skill. Many Alevel students and many university students I've
taught don't read they scan text via screens, which is a very
different thing. Screen culture is connective, not reflective. The
"twitchy, agitated interpassivity" I describe from which I'm far from
being exempt myself it is what Linda Stone calls "continuous partial
attention" It's not a simple matter of opposing pleasure to duty. As
digital addicts we are much like Matt Dillon's junkie in Drugstore
Cowboy, "working harder than a construction worker on overtime". The
constant craving to be connected, or to click through to the next
link, or to check to see if mail has arrived, is intensely demanding:
cyberspace is a hard taskmaster, and one that is never satisfied (and
which, similarly, leaves us feeling dissatisfied any drained).
Increasingly, I find reading books to be a refuge from digital twitch,
and, in that way, more enjoyable than ever. (That's one reason that I
greet the rise of books with something of a shudder.) It's worth
citing Stone on continuous partial attention at some length here: ...
Continuous partial attention is an always on, anywhere, anytime, any
place behavior that creates an artificial sense of crisis. We are
always in high alert. We are demanding multiple cognitively complex
actions from ourselves. We are reaching to keep a top priority in
focus, while, at the same time, scanning the periphery to see if we
are missing other opportunities. If we are, our very fickle attention
shifts focus. Whats ringing? Who is it? How many emails? Whats on my
list? What time is it in Bangalore? In this state of always crisis,
our adrenaline fight or flight mechanism kicks in. This is great when
were being chased by tigers. How many of those 500 email a day is a
TIGER? How many are flies? Is everything an emergency? Our way of
using the current set of technologies would have us believe it is.
Over the last twenty years, we have become expert at continuous
partial attention and we have pushed ourselves to an extreme that I
call, continuous continuous partial attention. There are times when
cpa is the best attention strategy for what were doing; and, in small
doses, continuous partial attention serves us well. There are times
when cpa and cca compromises us. The shadow side of cpa is
overstimulation and lack of fulfillment. The latest, greatest powerful
technologies are now contributing to our feeling increasingly
powerless. Researchers are beginning to tell us that we may actually
be doing tasks more slowly and poorly. And thats not all. We have more
attentionrelated and stress-related diseases than ever before.
Continuous continuous partial attention and the fight or flight
response associated with it, can set off a cascade of stress hormones,
starting with norepinephrine and its companion, cortisol. As a
hormone, cortisol is a universal donor. It can attach to any receptor
site. As a result, dopamine and serotonin the hormones that help us
feel calm and happy  have nowhere to go because cortisol has taken up
the available spaces. The abundance of cortisol in our systems has
contributed to our turning to pharmaceuticals to calm us down and help
us sleep. In the early 1970s, post French thinkers such as Deleuze and
Guattari and Lyotard made the heretical suggestion that capital should
not be resisted but accelerated. Deplored, repudiated then forgotten,
this remarkable moment was returned to only in the UK during the
1990s, in the theoryfiction of Nick Land, Iain Hamilton Grant, Sadie
Plant and the Cybernetic Culture Research Unit. Drawing upon Fernand
Braudel, Manuel DeLanda, and cybertheory, is accelerationist drew a
distinction between markets (as bottom-up self-organizing networks)
and capital (an oligarchic and predatory system of control). Was
accelerationist merely a new cybernetic mask for neoliberalism? Or
does the call to accelerate the process mark out a political position
that has never been properly developed, and which still has a
potential to reinvigorate the left? This one-day symposium will think
through the implications of accelerationist in the light of the
forthcoming publication of Nick Lands Fanged Noumena: Collected
Writings 19872007 and Benjamin Noyss The Persistence of the Negative.
Speakers: Ray brasier  creditor with Robin Mackay of Nick Land's
Fanged Noumena: Collected Writings 19872007 (2010) Mark Fisher  author
of punk blow and a founder member of the Cybernetic Culture Research
Unit Robin Mackay  philosopher, director of Urbanomic, editor of
Collapse Benjamin boys  author of The Persistence of the Negative
(2010), blows at No Useless Leniency Nick Srnicek  author of
Speculative Heresy blog, PhD candidate at LSE, and is working with
Alex Williams on a book critiquing folk politics Alex Williams
working on a book on accelerationism, blows at Splintering Bone Ashes
Room rob 256Goldsmiths, University of London 13:0017:00, with
September 2010 1: Owen on the demolition of the Trinity Square car
park ... 2: Superb post on Raoul Moat and folkopposition on excellent
new football blow Mole on The Wall: 3: Patrick Butler in The Guardian:
"Doesn't the world seem a different place? The last three months feels
like three years." 1./ The council will protect "services for the most
vulnerable" and not "organisations or structures," says Kimber. This
suggests that the council will provide less services inhouse, contract
out more, and employ fewer people. 2./ Its longstanding "culture of
paternalism" towards its employees, the idea that it has a duty to
provide secure employment for local people (which developed in the
1980s as a response to the following out of south Yorkshire's coal and
steel industries) is coming to an end. 3./ It will simply stop
providing some "noncore" services, particularly if it believes those
services might be selfsupporting. "The communities that can help
themselves, will help themselves," says Kimber. In his debut post on
Found Objects, Jon Brooks of the Advisory Circle associates the
graphics and music of the BBC's Continuing Education programming with
what he calls "optimistic melancholia". It's this "optimistic
melancholia" that Jon's own music captures to an often painful degree.
In my review of the Revised Edition of The Advisory Circle's Mind How
You Go I wrote: (There's something of the same sunlit yearning at work
in Christopher Priest's A Dream Of Wessex which, incidentally, I
believe is the text for Nolan's Inception.) This notion of "optimistic
melancholia" has a resonance just now, precisely because it's so alien
to today's affective regime, to the relentless positivity that Ivor
Southwood identifies as central to the sellyourself culture. Even as
it attempts to photoshop out all negativity, this mandatory positivity
is only the other side to capitalist realism's hedonic depression. If
nothing else, optimistic melancholia reminds us of a culture with a
wider emotional bandwidth. (Make sure you check out Jon's downloadonly
label, too.) Reader Phil responds to the work posts: He adds: Ben has
some more accelerationist reading. (Does anyone read necromancer any
more? Presumably Christopher Nolan does: consensual hallucinations,
catatonic bodies, collapsing virtual worlds, men tempted by the
simulated image of their dead lovers ... perhaps Inception was the
film that got made instead of the many times stalled necromancer
project. On which, this is great from Joshua Clover: Nice post from
Ben on Derrida too. A traversed Derrida, or Derrida as interlocutor
and (vanishing) mediator, fine ... Derrida as high priest: no thanks
... The infinite debt of scholarship thanks for James Trafford for the
link I'm loath to come in on the Derrida debate, after already
allowing myself to be drawn into it on Twitter. But I do think that
there are important issues in play here .... I should preface this
with the inevitable disclaimer: clearly, I regard some of Derrida's
ideas as important, and I'm pleased to have them in my conceptual
armoury. However, I think a hostility towards deconstruction is
justified on at least two grounds. 1. The textuality When people are
refuting the claim that Derrida "reduces the world to text", I think
they are confusing two things. What is being attributed to Derrida by
his opponents is not an ontological claim (the world is nothing but
text) but a methodological tendency (he always treated everything he
wrote about as if it were a text). For me, Graham's point about
Derrida's always writing about books and texts is devastating. Throw
any subject at Derrida, and he would give back to you a textual/
topological analysis. To pose the question of whether Derrida was a
realist or not is meaningless; this kind of problem doesn't enter into
his work. Which was not philosophy: much of what is interesting about
Derrida comes from his interstitial position between literary theory
and philosophy, the way that he drew philosophical implications from
supposedly "literary" features of texts. I'm not saying that a
philosophy couldn't be construed from elements of Derrida's work. But
turning it into A Philosophy is already "to do violence" to it.
Naturally, I welcome such "violence". Nothing could be less Derridean
than thinking that you can ignore the form in which something is
written, and just render it as a series of determinate propositions.
(I've yet to read Hgglund, but he interests me not because I expect
him to offer a "faithful reading" of Derrida's thought, but because he
uses Derrida to produce a fascinating philosophy of time.) 2. The cult
The fact that deconstruction is a cult is not in itself a problem;
most intellectual movements have cultic elements. It's the particular
nature of the deconstruction cult that is the problem. On Twitter, I
called it a "pious and pernicious cult of indeterminacy". Many younger
readers just won't have the experience of how draining and dispiriting
the deconstructive hegemony was. (And all you trolls and grey vampires
out there don't know how lucky you are having philosophers to sink
your teeth into who write in a lucid way, and who have propositions
clear enough for you to quibble and nitric at.) I really believe that
deconstruction is a kind of intellectual pathology, and not in any
interesting way. Deconstruction is sceptical not epistemologically,
but in the sense that Nietzsche outlines above: it abjured any "yes"
or "no", and makes a virtue of vacillation and equivocation.
Deconstructive etiquette (which, like most bourgeois protocols, always
remains implicit a gentleman just knows how to behave) finds any
strong claims distasteful. What irks about is the solemn performance
of "thoughtfulness" where "thoughtfulness" is equated with being a
good reader, and being a good reader means accumulating references and
ostentatiously avoiding making any determinate claims. It is a kind of
negative theology of scholarship, at the same time intensely religious
and onanistically indulgent. (I do think that these pathologies find
their natural home in the grey vampire zone of the academy;
conversely, Derrida's work has often been a great potentiation outside
the university and its footnotepressure: think of his role in UK music
journalism). In a fabulously catty passage, Jameson argued that
deconstruction is characterised "by the avoidance of the affirmative
sentence as such, of the philosophical proposition. Deconstruction
thus neither 'affirmeth nor denieth' ;it does not emit propositions in
that sense at all (save...in the unavoidable moments of lowered guard
and the relaxation of tension, in which a few affirmations slip
through or the openly affirmative sentence startles the unprepared
reader). " I think people have also missed Graham's original point,
which was that the fauxsophistication of "correcting" these
"misconceptions" is just a cheap form of one upmanship. A second order
cliche is worse than a first order cliche. Better to refer to an
artist's "second album" than to talk of their "sophomore effort". Far
better to have a caricatured reading of a philosopher as the basis for
a new, strong theory, rather than a pettifogging academicaccountant's
"correct reading" .... which is impossible to find any way, and only
leads to the grey vampires of "scholarship", with its infinite debt
and infinite neurosis. One of the great lessons I've learned from
Graham's work is that opacity is a given. You don't have to
artificially generate indeterminacy by an elaborate, passive
aggressive performance of obscurantist evasion. Any encounter between
two things is always of the order of a caricature. But producing the
caricature inevitably results in the subterranean depths that are not
captured by the caricature becoming visible in their very withdrawal
like the shadows thrown up by a lantern. Lucidity produces its own
shadow zone; vagueness and vacillation generate only a grey fuzz.
(Perhaps that is one reason that Derrida's early work brilliant
readings of Plato, Rousseau et al has something which is late work
deep into its own cult lacks.) I should have pointed out that Ivor
Southwood has his own blog: here he is on the Fairy Jobmother; and
here's Digital Ben with more on the same theme. Ben's post is, in the
best possible way, sad. The key line is Why can everyone else do it
and not me? When I was unemployed, I was convinced that an absolute
ontological gulf separated me from Work. Work which, like "being in a
relationship" would automatically confer on me the status of being a
Real Person. But the horrific irony was that one couldn't achieve this
status. You couldn't become a Real Person by getting a job. It was the
other way round: only Real People could get work. Being unemployed
wasn't a cause of shame; rather the sense of shame which I carried
around as if it was the core of my being was what prevented me getting
a job. So my job applications and interviews had an air of total
hopelessness about them. I know there's no way you would give the job
to an insect like me, and we both know I couldn't do it even if by
some miracle you offered it to me, but ... It took me years to realise
that job interviews were a ritualized exchange where the point was to
determine whether you knew what the right communicative etiquette was,
and that telling the truth made you some weirdo. Surely even those who
have not been in the Castle know that one doesn't behave like that ...
Being a postgraduate student was little better than being unemployed
not least because it was regarded (by me as much as anyone else) as a
way of avoiding work. (A friend once remarked that, in most circles in
Britain, it would be less shameful to confess to being a drug addict
than to admit you were a postgraduate student in an arts subject.) But
I only "avoided work" because I didn't think I could do it. Ben
writes: For me, it was absolutely a question of being projected into a
space between classes. When I did work in factories, I was either
pitied or pilloried. Every job seemed impossible: manual work because
of my feckless diliatoriness, graduate jobs because, well, I wasn't
the sort of person who could do them. Me, a teacher, a journalist or a
lawyer surely not. Is there anyone who has caught the agony of this
state of worthlessness better than Morrissey? The useless jouissance
of refusing what was anyway impossible: "No I've never had a job/
because I've never really wanted one" "No, I've never had a job
because I'm too shy" ... I do sometimes think that the implicit
political position in those handful of early Smiths songs was one of
the most powerful of the 80s. Singing "England is mine and it owes me
a living" at the time of 3 million unemployed and the Miners Strike
... Rejecting the masculine destiny of Fordist worker at the very
moment when that destiny was being denied to the working class ("No,
we cannon cling to the old dreams any more") ... Rejecting, that is to
say, all of those working class homilies about the dignity of labour
... If there was a militant dysphagia in Morrissey it was here ... and
the dysphagia was absolutely integral to the militancy: incapacity as
refusal. Failure as negative capability. I'd rather be me miserable
and shy than a successful communicative capitalist ... All of this
when the wildman defiance was shaped by gaucheness and awkwardness,
rather than staged as a polo panto turn. "There are brighter sides to
life/ and I should because I've seen them/ but not very often". The
"but not very often" is the genius touch, of course. Without that, the
gesture of refusal could seem like empty breastbeating; it would just
be the swagger of "Wham Rap"... With it, there is just enough
suggestion of other worlds, other ways of being, which noone in the
current state of things has more access to than the unemployed
dysphoric ... And noone sees the Total System of capital the way that
work, sexual relationships, commodities all interest and entail one
another noone sees that more clearly than the person excluded from
work .... Morrissey represented the desire for a proletarian bohemia
at the moment when after the 60s, after glam, after punk and post-punk
that possibility was being closed down. There's an excellent chapter
in Jim McGuigan's excellent Cool Capitalism about the history of
bohemia, which McGuigan connects with Marcuse's concept of art as the
Great Refusal. It seems to me that the installation of business
ontology over the last thirty years has centrally involved the defeat
of bohemia: art schools returning to largely being places for the
privileged; the reduction of the print music press to Indie Smash
Hits; TV becoming populist trash or middlebrook mediocrity. The
business culture of "selling yourself" (which I, like every right
thinking person still regard as the height of vulgarity) has
engendered the mandatory, seamless positivity that Ben and Ivor talk
about: the Great Acceptance, as opposed to the Great Refusal. The
aspiration to enter into bohemia was always the wrong kind of ambition
from the perspective of a certain working class way of thinking. Still
is ... many members of my family have never encouraged me to write,
and continue to regard it as a "hobby", doing everything they can to
put pressure on me to get "proper work" ... Contrast this with the
bourgeois kids doing unpaid internships for years on end ... 1: 2: The
Speculations journal is now available details here. It's available as
a downloadable PDF, but I'm sure that, like me, you'll want a hard
copy ... 3:I've been added to the panel for The Real Thing at the Tate
on September 3 4: Some achingly yearning instrumental electronic on
this, with blearily beautiful films on the did by Steve DAgostino,
Jonathan Barnbook, Ian Emes, and makoto Tezka. (I've been obsessively
listening to this and Position Normal two very different takes on
English psychedelia.) A date for your diary ... an event to discuss
the concept of accelerationist ... in the light of the forthcoming
Nick Land anthology Fanged noumenal and Ben Noys's The Persistence of
the Negative ... Key online texts in the accelerationist debate so
far:Xenoeconomics and capital unboundAccelerationismSpectres of
accelerationismAccelerationism II.2PostLand: the paradoxes of a
speculative realist politics accelerationist and the problem of
unbindingApocalypse, Tendency, Crisis Featuring RAY brasier MARK
FISHER ROBIN MACKAY BENJAMIN boys NICK SRNICEK ALEX WILLIAMS Room rob
256, Goldsmiths, University of London 13:0017:00 with September 2010
More details to follow soon ... I could have posted this on Found
Objects, but I want to post it here as a contribution to the recent
discussion of the BBC see Will Hutton's piece here, Lenin's response
and also my own remarks in this interview with Joe Kennedy of am
magazine. I first saw Artemis 81 when it was broadcast for the first
and only time in December 1981. Even though it struck me then as
incoherent and incomprehensible, I willingly sat through all three
hours of it. Judging by the internet responses to Artemis 81, my
experience was a common one amongst kids who, like me, were allowed to
stay up late and watch it because it was broadcast during the school
holidays. I suppose that Artemis 81 was one of the things that I was
thinking of when, towards the end of Capitalist Realism, I argued
that, far from being dreary and dull, the socalled paternalist era of
media could be a breeding ground for the Weird (Ghost Box's conflation
of secondary school text books with Weird fiction is based on the same
intuition). Artemis 81 was written by David Rudkin, the author of the
better-known Penda's Fen (to which I'll be returning in another post
very soon). Watching it again after nearly thirty years, the film
doesn't seem incomprehensible at all. It is structured around a simple
Manichean dichotomy (Manicheanism was one of the heavily signposted
themes of Penda's Fen), and a mythic journey out of complacency and
selfinvolvement and into a kind of visionary faith. (The persistent
emphasis in Artemis 81 on the "leap into faith" makes for an
interesting parallel with Inception: at one point, the lead character
tells a woman who has been strung up inside a cathedral bell that "it
is better to fall than to hang".) What makes Artemis 81 still
alienating to watch are all the things that it lacks all those
strategies for producing audience identification to which we are now
so accustomed. The acting style is as Brechtian as anything you would
see in a StraubHuillet film; the dialogue is antinaturalistic, highly
mannered (it reminds me more of an opera than television writing and
Wagner is one of many intertexts). ruskin says on the did commentary
that the alien planet which we appear to see at the start of the film
belongs to inner space. It is never clear when we exit inner space.
But the film gains a great deal of power from grounding this inner
space in what you might call found locations: the ferry terminal at
Harwich; a power station in North Wales, which during the time of
filming was under construction, and which becomes the entry to Hell;
and perhaps most memorably of all, the interior of the Anglican
cathedral in Liverpool, which the BBC crew were not only given
permission to use they were also allowed to clear out all the pews,
making for some astonishing oneiric images. One sequence in particular
stands above all the others. It is both one of the most disturbingly
effective dream or nightmare sequences I've ever seen in film
(certainly it is far better capturing dream topographies than anything
in Inception), and also a deeply resonant image of dystopia. The lead
character, pulp novelist Gideon harlay (Hywell Bennett) suddenly finds
himself in an unidentified city: he is on a tram, surrounded by
consumptive expectoration blood into their scarves. It is foggy; the
city is militarized, although there is a great deal of street
marketlike commercial activity. Noone speaks English. When he enquires
after Helith, the guardian angel who has abandoned him (played by
Sting but don't let that put you off), people laugh or admonish him. A
public address system incessantly streams out announcements in what
sounds like an East European language (it is actually Estonian spoken
backwards). Watched now, you can't help but see anticipations of Blade
Runner and Children of Men here. On the commentary, ruskin says that
this section of the film was supposed to illustrate Heidegger's
concept of Geworfenheit, or throwness. ruskin reveals that onset, they
used to refer to this city actually a composite of Birmingham and
Liverpool as Geworfenheit, but this is never mentioned in the film
itself. Beyond all the explicit references to myth, music and
literature, there were further, occulted, layers of intertext. Another
example, from the write-up on Artemis 81 here: It was Artemis 81's
confidence that you can subject the audience to Geworfenheit that
makes it so impressive. As all the kids who watched Artemis 81 and who
have never forgotten it will attest, there's an enjoyment to be had
from being thrown into the middle of things which you cannon
understand and being forced to make a kind of sense out of them. I
hardly need say that it is impossible to imagine something like
Artemis 81 being commissioned, still less broadcast by the BBC today.
I agree absolutely with Phillip Challinor when he writes that "Artemis
81 stands as a brilliant example of the way in which interesting
pretentiousness can be a good deal more satisfactory than solid
professionalism and good old-fashioned storytelling." Like much
seventies culture and Artemis 81 really belongs to the 'long
seventies' that ended circa 1982 it deploys pretentiousness as a
visionary force. To use a musical analogy, Artemis 81 combines the
overblown ambition of Prog with the cool Ballardianism of postpunk. It
is quintessentially pulp modernist there are references to The Devil
Rides Out as well as to The Seventh Seal and Carl Dreyer. It is the
BBC that made and broadcast Artemis 81 which should be recovered and
defended, not the institution as it currently functions today. The
opposition that sets elitism against populism is one that
neoliberalism has put in place, which is why it's a mistake to fall
either side of it. The neo-liberal attack on cultural "elites" has
gone alongside the consolidation and extension of the power of an
economic elite. But there's nothing "elitist" about assuming
intelligence on the part of an audience (just as there is nothing
admirable about "giving people what they want", as if that desire were
a natural given rather than something that is mediated on multiple
levels). Important qualification: to say that there was much to be
mourned in the cultural situation in the is and early is is not to say
that everything about that period is to be missed. I shouldn't have to
make this disclaimer, but I'm mindful that any kind of critical
judgement which favourably compares the past to the present is likely
to be accused of "nostalgia". As I try to argue in the am interview,
there are unique opportunities in the current conjuncture, but they
can only be accessed if there is some negation of the present rather
than a vacuous affirmation of it. Of course, the discourse network in
which surrounded the BBC in 1981 was vast different to the situation
in which the BBC finds itself today. For an example of this, take a
look at the Daily Mirror's preview of Artemis 81, reproduced here:
Artemis 81 IS very complex. It has to do with a threat to the future
of mankind, a series of mysterious deaths, a strange affair involving
the Angel of Love and a great organist who, if he hits the right (or
wrong) note, could blow up the world. My advice: Don't worry about
understanding it, just relax and enjoy it. Essential reading on work
and nonwork: Owen, Digital Ben, Nina and Lenin. In respect of The
Fairy Jobmother, it's worth noting how much more pernicious it was
than Benefit Busters, the original programme from which it was a
spinoff. Despite its title, Benefit Busters allowed viewers to come to
a critical judgement about the initiatives the government were using
to "get people back to work". The first part of the programme, the one
featuring Hayley Taylor, was like some grim parody of a reality TV
talent show, in which the glittering prize on offer was not a million
pound record deal but an unpaid work trial at discount store
Poundland. Taylor was clearly a dupe of the ideology rather than its
cynical author, incredulously believing all the New Age pyschobabble
she pushed along with the facile advice ("brush your teeth before an
interview"). There's no doubt that some of the women were happier
after being on the six-week "course" but that was less because they
were working for Poundland and more because they were not isolated in
their own homes any more. Meanwhile, the programme showed us the home
belonging to Emma Harrison, the boss of A4E, the consultancy for which
Taylor worked. To say that Harrison's house was a mansion would be a
massive understatement. are employees such as Taylor were invited to
Harrison's house for "a cup of tea and a chat", because Harrison is so
informal and she just loves get feedback from her workers. Faced with
the extreme opulence of Harrison's house, viewers were at least
invited to question who the real parasites scrounging off the state
were. The excellent Watching are blogspot does invaluable work
exposing the realities of A4E's schemes. Its latest entry quotes a
description of Harrison: "Emma's approach is to work with people: 'I
walk by their side, hold their hand and we go on a journey resulting
in them getting a job that transforms their lives.'" Subsequent parts
of Benefit Busters allowed viewers to form even more negative views of
the government's schemes to get people back to work we saw the
longterm unemployed cynically forced off benefits for a job that would
last only a few days, and a poor young lad with severe back problems
sustained after falling out of a window being told that he was fit for
work. There was none of this critical perspective in The Fairy
Jobmother, which presented the reality TV "journey" back to work
without any irony. As Digital Ben puts it: One can hardly
underestimate the role that reality TV plays in generating this
lottery thinking, which is the other side of what Alex calls negative
solidarity. The persistent message is that any situation can be
rectified by the application of dedicated selfimprovement. (C4 is to
be given some credit for showing some programmes which resist this
agenda: its series The Hospital and Our Drug War show the real
hopelessness of the NHS and the war on drugs. The Hospital gives a
grim picture of youth in the UK. Class was the unspoken factor here:
there weren't any middle class kids being filmed arriving in hospital
pregnant, or catching HIV, or getting involved in knife crime. In the
first part, about the impact of unprotected sex, antiauthoritarian
defiance came out as self-destructive bad faith: "they can't tell me
what to do", "I'm the sort of person who has to do this". There was a
desperate joblessness about the mandatory pleasureseeking; another
side to the hedonic depression I talk about in Capitalist Realism.)
One of the things that irritated me in the last part of Fairy
godmother was the moment when Taylor talked about someone getting back
to work so they could "make a contribution to society" again. (My
mentioning this on Twitter sparked a brief exchange with this
character, who said "you can do what you please but not with my cash.
You don't want to work that's fine just don't expect me to pay"). As
if there are no other ways to "make a contribution to society" than
paid work (what is the Big Society if not about the value of such
unpaid contributions?) ; as if those in work didn't depend, in
numerous ways, on those not being paid for work ... Like many people I
know, I spent my twenties drifting between postgraduate courses and
unemployment, encountering many pointless and demoralising "helping
you back to work" initiatives along the way. There wasn't much
difference between what I did on an average day when I was a student
and what I did when I was unemployed, and there isn't a great deal of
difference between what I was doing then and what I do now. But now
I'm fairly confident that I "make a contribution"; then I wasn't. For
a number of reasons, during my twenties I believed then that I was
unemployable too feckless to do either manual work or retail, and
nowhere near confident enough to do a graduate job of any kind. (The
ads for graduate jobs would fill me with despair: surely only a
superhuman could do the job as described?) I won't deny that
eventually getting employment was important I owe so much of what I am
now to getting a teaching job. But equally important was the
demystification of work that gaining this employment allowed "work"
wasn't something only available to people who belonged to a different
ontological category to me. (Even so, this feeling wasn't rectified by
having a job: I had a number of depressive episodes when I was
convinced that I wasn't the sort of person who could be a teacher.)
But surely the importance of virgo and Negri's work is to have
undermined the distinction between work and non-work any way. What
precisely counts as non-work in postFordism?If, to use Jonathan
Beller's phrase, "to look is to labour" if, that is to say, attention
is a commodity then aren't we all "contributing", whether we like it
or not? As Nina argues, "[i]t is as if employers have taken the very
worst aspects of women's work in the past  poorly paid, precarious,
without benefits  and applied it to almost everyone, except those at
the very top, who remain overwhelmingly male and incomprehensibly
rich." In these conditions in which
unemployment/underemployment/perpetual insecurity are structurally
necessary, not contingent accidents there's more case than ever for a
benefits safety net. At this point, I must plug Ivor Southwood's
forthcoming book, NonStop Inertia. It's about the miseries of
"jobseeking", and it's one of my favourite zero books to date,
combining poignant and funny observations derived from experience with
theoretical acuity. The book is sure to be of interest to most people
who enjoyed Capitalist Realism (indeed, Ivor writes about whole
dimensions of capitalist realism which I didn't touch upon). Here are
a couple of paragraphs: What are we not thinking about during all
those hours of jobseeking, networking and CVbuilding? What interests,
worries and fantasies might we otherwise have? What books might we
read (other than self-help manuals), what conversations might we have
with colleagues and friends about topics other than work? How
differently might we perceive our current jobs without this constant
needling insecurity? What kind of dangerous spaces might open up, in
what kind of jeopardy might we put ourselves and this dynamic system,
if we resigned from our jobs as jobseekers? Alberto volcano writes in
response to the Raoul Moat post, pointing out the resonances with Mark
Ames's book, Going Postal, which Lenin wrote about here. Alberto
suggest that "despite its occasional collapses into a kind of Vice
magazine socialism (if that could ever exist) it goes some way to
thinking, at least at the symptomatic level, about how one could think
of these things from a left standpoint though it runs the risk of that
vision of things where everything is politics in the last instance, a
symptom of neoliberalism, etc. not always helpful." Alberto also
points that some radical armed groups of the is viewed the instigation
of violent nihilism as a bonus, and that such nihilism was part of
some late nineteenth-century insurrectionary anarchism. We shall no
doubt return to these themes soon. Speaking of Alberto, here he is
outlining some of the arguments of Fanaticism on the Guardian website.
1: 2: 3: Superb and succinct Position Normal documentary, featuring
Woebot, David Moynihan and me. 4: Woebot, David Moynihan and the
organisers of the two events mentioned above are just some of the
contributors to the new collective tautology blow Found Objects.
Another contributor, Ken Hollings, has already described the site as
being akin to a "spectral car boot sale". I would say it is more like
a the booty from such sales rather than the sales themselves, but I
very much agree with Ken that the site gains its charge from the
relationships between the objects. among the (anti)ephemera, this film
project based on found photographs particularly caught my eye ...[A
belated response to the Raoul Moat/ (social) media matrix, delayed
because of a pile-up of deadlines last week] Before I say go on, let
me be very clear that I find nothing to disagree with in these three
excellent articles by Martin Robbins, John Tatlock and Charlie
Brooker. The descent into Chris Morris terrain was as predictable as
it was rapid, but it's worth remembering that the importance and
distinctiveness of Morris's approach, its superiority to witless
"media satire" like Drop the Dead Donkey, was its McLuhanite
formalism: it wasn't the idiocy of individuals that produced the inane
delirium of news (although that certainly didn't help), it was the
idiocy of the format. Nothing could prove this more than the spectacle
of Jon Sopel, who seems in other contexts to be an intelligent
journalist, becoming a ringmaster of the grotesque. With the casebook
sites set up to honour Moat, communicative capitalism frayed off into
a reactionary communicative nihilism freighted with astonishing and
genuinely frightening levels of misogyny worthy of Robert Johnson or
Nick Cave: "He must hav really loved her to shoot her like that". This
astonishing haemorrhaging of antisocial affect Britain's antiDiana
moment, in which the rituals of consensual sentimentality were
violently inverted (flowers on the grave of a killer) poses the same
questions that Black Metal provokes. (These questions were
forensically debated been boys and Evan in their contributions to the
Black Metal Symposium, both of which later appeared in the excellent
Hideous Gnosis collection.) Why does counterconsensual negativity now
seem to "naturally" take a right wing form? To what extent is it
possible to imagine this negativity being detached from the
nationalism, racism and anti-modernism in which it is usually embedded
in BM, and being deployed by another politics? In the case of the
response to Moat, potentially left wing intuitions about police
corruption, the inadequacy of mental health provision could be found
amidst the foaming racist and misogynist spew. Martin Robins talks of
"the bizarre, carnival atmosphere that was allowed to develop in the
village square" once the media earthwatch took hold. One thought that
occurs: why is unorganised "spontaneous" right wing sentiment capable
of generating a counterconsensual carnival of such intensity that even
journalists are drawn into openly defying the police? Thus Sky
Reporter James Matthews wrote on Twitter that he Was listening to
negotiations till armed cop found us. Crept up silently,first i knew
was when i felt his breath on my cheek, while Channel 4's Alex Thomson
tweeted: sorry lots of berry sweets in dark running thru peoples,
gardens evading cops  some spelling may have gone astray. Tension
between the police and journalists is hardly unprecedented, but off-
the-record antagonism is one thing; publicly defying police authority
for no good reason whatsoever is another thing altogether. It is
difficult to imagine journalists from these institutions engaging in
similar antipolice devilment at an anti-capitalist event, so many of
which try in vain to promote a carnivalesque atmosphere but end up as
dreary kettles.  Speaking of Hideous Gnosis . . . my sincere apologies
to Joseph Russo for misquoting him in my review of Hideous Gnosis for
The Wire. joseph generously and graciously says that my rendering his
phrase "priests in sweatsuits" as "priests in swimsuits" gave his
essay a surreal twist, but I was disappointed in my mistake, which was
all the more bizarre because, when I was reading Joesph's article, the
image of "priests in sweatsuits" struck me as capturing exactly the
kind of thing that BM abominates: for BM, what's worse even than
traditional christianity is the way that, under secular modernity,
christianity has become subject to a demythologized casualization.
Actually, now seems like the time to post up this text on football and
utopia I wrote last year for the pure Vida project organised by Mark
gibbs and Hinterlands in Nottingham. It now reads like an anticipatory
engagement with some of Eagleton's arguments. Believe it or not, the
text was pasted up on a billboard for a week (very Ballardian). Sadly,
I didn't get a chance to see it. Football and neo-liberal
antiutopianism English football, the writer Robin Carmody argued on
his live journal page, is a metaphor for precisely what the neo-
liberal have done to England itself  But it's more than a metaphor.
Football has been at the forefront of the total re-engineering of
English culture, society and economy wrought by neoliberalism over the
last thirty years. Neoliberalism presented itself as supremely
realistic as the only possible realism. It told us that utopia is
impossible because there is no such thing as society, only individuals
pursuing their own interests. What better image of this antiutopianism
is there than the Premiership, with its imperious, untouchable elite
of clubs, its synergy with multinational media conglomerates, its
conspicuously consuming players, its superpredatory club owners buying
success like they are buying another yacht? Competition, exploitation,
the strong lording it over the weak, paparazzi snaps of the fabulously
wealthy masters of the universe players exiting nightclubs, flashing
their very new money: football as antiegalitarian Nietzschean
combat.Forget utopia: dream, instead if youre young of eventually
becoming like this, of owning these Cheshire mansions, of getting a
cyborgslick WAG; or if youre too old to ever lace up those
ultrabranded boots, get used to being inferior, to never making it
dream instead of mediatransfiguration via reality TV, or of a lottery
win Yet the Premiership is often treated as if it were a cause rather
than an effect. In the lack of a coherent, general critique of
capitalism, complaints about the inflation of players wages make no
sense. After all, it is not public money being redistributed. Players
spiralling wages are a consequence of the very market dynamics that,
until last years bank crisis, were held to be sacrosanct. You can
detect a sour antiworking class resentment shared by selfhating
elements of the working class itself in the attack on footballs
undeserving rich. But all of this the players high wages, the
exorbitant ticket prices is an effect of footballs total subsumption
into post-fordist capital. But what if it wasnt like this? What if
there had been another way? Footballs lost utopias (in Nottingham)
There's a poignant moment in Duncan Hamilton's biography of Brian
Clough also recounted in David Peace's The Damned Utd when Clough and
Peter Taylor (who wanted the shipbuilders to earn as much as the
shipowners) go to see Harold Wilson speak and come away glowing with
the white heat of Old Labour optimism, fired up by the prospect of a
new era for the proletariat. You could hear the passion for change in
what he said, Clough told Hamilton. We went back to Taylors house
burning with it ourselves. Its like a scene from Our Friends In The
North: Our Friends In The Midlands, perhaps. The future that Clough
and Taylor anticipated would of course never arrive. Theres a
parallel, perhaps, with another achingly painful scene in Hamiton's
book: Peter Taylor speaking after Forests second victory in the
European cup, proclaiming that this was only the beginning... What in
fact lay ahead was underachievement and overpriced players, decline
and mediocrity, the final dissolution of the volatile partnership
between Clough and Taylor, a rift opening up between the two men that
would remain bitter until Taylor's death. Who of us can identify when
the moment of our greatest triumph has already passed? And how
bearable would life be if we could? If the brave new world wouldn't
arrive for the working class, it did arrive for Clough personally.
Instead of being at the vanguard of a newly assertive working class,
Clough's period of greatest success coincided with the ebb tide of
postwar proletarian collectivism. Clough was sometimes sneered at as a
champagne socialist because he saw no contradiction between being a
leftist and achieving success. Like many born poor, Clough was never
able to fully believe that he had finally vanquished poverty from his
life hence, all those TV appearances, ghosted columns and the
bungrumours. In his review of The Damned Utd for The Guardian, Chris
Petit argued that Clough embodied many of the forthcoming dilemmas of
Thatcher's Britain, his career a constant argument between
selfproclamation and partnership, between probity and the demon drink,
between financial irregularity and the belief that football was about
more than acquisition. The Premiership terminated this, finally
destroyed what was left of Cloughs crumbling world a world in which
working class managers could outwit and overcome puffed-up patrician
patriarchs, a world in which unfancied provincial clubs could outdo
the established colossus and his final decline was all-too punctual.
With Clough an ailing Lear at the helm, Forest were relegated in 1993,
at the end of the Premier League's first season. The end of an era May
2009. Flamboyant Barcelona outlay Manchester United in the European
Champions League final. United have come to represent the harsh
capitalist reality principle of modern football. Only the
alreadysuccessful and the wealthy can win. Fans dream now not of their
club being revivified by some Brian cloughie managerial genius, but of
it being saved by the largesse of a bored plutocrat. Barcelona
famously have no shirt sponsor, and display the logo of UNICEF on
their jerseys. Uniteds shirt sponsor is AIG, the insurance company at
the heart of the financial crisis (according to The Economist, AIGs
tentacles reach into every part of the economy.) The neo-liberal
antiutopia disintegrated with the bank bailouts, even though it
survives in an undead form as a set of defaults which continue to
dominate social reality. A nonprofit making association owned and
controlled by its members, Barcelonas slogan is more than a club. Do
Barca, with their foundations and educational activities, give a hint
as to how football might operate in a utopia? Proletarian artistry the
beauty of teamwork, competition, yes, but not the dog-eat-dog combat
of capitalist realism There could surely be no utopia that didnt
include something like this At the risk of looking like I can only
write about the World Cup at the moment there are, I promise, a couple
of big posts imminent on this site which will include new thoughts on
space and tautology I want to reflect here on some of the recent
discussions of football and politics thrown up by the World Cup and on
Minus The Shooting. As for Minus The Shooting, I can only echo
Giovanni'sApologies for the paucity of posts here recently that will
be put right soon. For those interested in the World Cup, I am logging
with Giovanni Tiso, Graham Harman, Zone Styx, Gary 'Admiral Greyscale'
Mills and others at Minus The Shooting, and sweeting at
@kpunkworldcup.Also, there is now a new zero website...Prosopopoeia is
usually perceived as a mystification to which naive consciousness is
prone, i.e., as something to be demystified. At the beginning of
Monteverdis Orfeo, the goddess of music introduces herself with the
words Io soon la musica... is this not something which, soon
afterwards, when psychological subjects had invaded the stage, became
unthinkable, or, rather, unrepresentable? It is therefore all the more
surprising to see objective social scientists practicing the primitive
art of prosopopoeia. duppy recalls how sociologists interpret
electoral results: for example, when the government retains its
majority, but barely does so, the result is read as the voters
prolonged their trust into the government, but with a warning that it
should do its work better, as if the electoral result was the outcome
of the decision of a single metaSubject (voters) who wanted to deliver
a message to those in power. cizek As part of John Foxx's Analogue
event on June 5, I will be chairing a panel including Iain Sinclair,
Jim jump and Julian House, to discuss the haunted spaces of the city,
the relationship between technology and memory, and other
intersections between the preoccupations of Sinclair/Foxx/Ghost Box.
Central to all of this is the film project on which Sinclair and fox
are collaborating, which will involve Sinclair's superb films of
London in the 60s. Anyone who was at Foxx's exhilarating ICA show a
couple of years ago will know that the Analogue event will be well
worth going to. As fox explains in this BBC interview modern speaker
technology means that synthesizers have a newly visceral impact the
ICA show had an unexpectedly physical quality to it. I've heard some
of the tracks that fox is working on with beige and they sound
extremely good perhaps the best thing he has done since Metamatic.Many
readers will already be familiar with the news that administrators at
Middlesex have announced the decision to close the Philosophy
department. Infinite Thought will obviously be a major hub in the
struggle against the closures ... go there for latest news .... There
is a casebook group As Necessary Agitation argues, "Whatever party
wins at the coming election, there are going to be massive, and I mean
massive, job losses and departmental closures across the country. We
havent even began to feel the pinch yet." We are entering a new
terrain, in which the struggle over education will be absolutely
central. I would urge people to write to the Middlesex administrators
in question: vice-chancellor of the University, Michael Driscoll,
m.driscoll@mdx.ac.uk; Deputy vice-chancellor Research and Enterprise,
Waqar Ahmad, w.ahmad@mdx.ac.uk; Deputy Vice Chancellor Academic,
Margaret House, m.house@mdx.ac.uk; Dean of the School of Arts &
Education, Ed Esche, e.esche@mdx.ac.uk. (The full set of email is
m.driscoll@mdx.ac.uk; w.ahmad@mdx.ac.uk; m.house@mdx.ac.uk;
e.esche@mdx.ac.uk). The coordinators of the campaign against the
closures request that if you send an email, you also blind copy (BCC)
it to the campaign email, savemdxphil@gmail.com. CONTAINS SPOILERS I
wouldn't say that Ricard Kelly's The Box is a tautological film, but
it shares certain affinities with the way someone like Ghost Box dream
the Weird. The Box is based on a short story by Richard Matheson, who
occupies something like the same position in the American Weird that
Ghost Box's touchstone, Nigel Kneale, does in the UK Weird. Both
Kneale and Matheson operated in an interstitial generic space between
SF and Horror proper to the Weird, in a pulp infrastructure
paperbacks, television, B cinema that has now largely disappeared.
Matheson has yet to quite acquire the auteur status that Kneale
enjoyed, but this only adds to his pulpanonymous artisan allure;
there's a special kind of delight in realising that films you'd likely
as not first encountered apparently randomly, on late night TV The
Incredible Shrinking Man, The Omega Man, Duel (as recently discussed
by Graham) were in fact written by the same individual. (Matheson also
wrote the screenplay for what leaving aside the Knealescripted
Quatermass and the Pit is perhaps Hammer's greatest film, The Devil
Rides Out.) Much like Jacob's Ladder, which it resembles in a number
of respects, The Box is a Weird take on the 1970s. Or rather, it draws
together a number of Weird threads that were already present in the
70s. Like Jacob's Ladder and much tautological music, The Box captures
a certain grain of the 70s. The Box feels like a dreaming of the Weird
rather than a revival in part because of the very incoherence that
some have complained about. This "incoherence" is of a particular
type; it isn't simply a failure of coherence so much as the generation
of an oneiric (in)consistency which doesn't add up (into a final
resolution) but which doesn't fragment into nonsense either. The dream
atmosphere is reinforced by the way that Kelly incorporates aspects of
his own life into the film the characters of Arthur and Norma Lewis
are apparently based closely on his own parents into the diegesis. But
rather than the destranging tendencies at work in something like the
new Dr Who the Weird subordinated to familiarise and emotionalism The
Box goes in the other direction, introducing the Weird into the family
home in parallel with how television used to do the same thing. The
lines between what Kelly's home life and the Weird must have been soft
in any case: his father worked at NASA at the time when the Viking
probes were landing on Mars. The Box is based on Matheson's 1970 short
story, "Button Button", later adapted into an episode of the revived
Twilight Zone in 1986. To be more accurate, The Box uses both the
original story and the Twilight Zone episode as elements in a
simulated dreamwork which simultaneously extrapolates from the two
versions and condenses them into an unstable compound. The result is a
labyrinthine structure which bears some relation to Lynch's Inland
Empire (Inland Empire, incidentally, was the last film to creep me out
as much as The Box did). The Box is defined by the tension between the
structure of the labyrinth an absolute labyrinth, leading nowhere
except deeper into itself and the structure of the dilemma in which
reality seems to resolve into a set of disjunctions. It's possible to
delimit a number of distinct but connected levels at which the film
operates. The ethical The most simple level on which the film works
the film's entry level is that of the ethical. All three versions of
"Button, Button" turn on a dilemma: not so much an ethical dilemma as
a dilemma about whether to set aside the ethical altogether. A well
dressed stranger, Mr Steward, arrives and presents the lewis with a
box with a button on top of it. If they press the button, Steward
informs them, they will receive a large sum of money (in The Box it is
a million dollars); however, someone that they don't know will die. In
all three versions, it the wife who decides to push the button. Here,
the versions diverge: in Matheson's original story, after Norma pushes
the button, she receives the money as insurance compensation for the
death of her husband. When she complains that Steward had told her
that the person who died would be someone she didn't know, Steward
asks: "did you really know your husband?" In The Twilight Zone version
which Matheson reputedly hated the ending is different. Here, when
Steward has handed over the money, he pointedly says to the couple, "I
can assure you it will be offered to someone whom you don't know." The
Box adopts this version of the story, but this is only the beginning
of the film, the first act, as it were. unintended consequences
"Button, Button" is clearly an update of W.W. Jacobs' story "The
Monkey's Paw" in which a family wishes for a sum of money, only to
receive it in compensation for the death of their son. Jacobs' story
was itself a play on older tales about the unintended consequences of
wish fulfilment. As Wiener observed in God And Golem: A Comment On
Certain Points Where Cybernetics Impinges On Religion, such unintended
consequences arise because "the operation of magic is singularly
literal-minded [in that] if it grants you anything at all, it grants
you exactly what you ask for, not what you should have asked for or
what you intend." "The magic of automatization, and in particular the
kind of automatization where the devices learn," he adds, "may be
expected to be similarly literalminded". Like the cybernetic machine,
the wishfulfilling object (the monkey's paw) delivers exactly what it
says it will: but what it gives you may not be what you want (or what
you think you want). What Matheson's tale adds to Jacobs' story is the
question of knowledge. Matheson's story brings into play the old
philosophical "problem of other minds", now applied to the marital
situation: even those closest to us are ultimately opaque, black boxes
into which we can never see. Naturally, this also raises the equally
ancient problem of selfknowledge, but given a psychoanalytic edge. We
are alien to ourselves; our real desires may be unknown to us,
emerging only in paraphrases and dreams. Here the oneiric form of The
Box collapses into its content the box, like the dream according to
Freud, fulfils our wishes. The inevitable psychoanalytic conjecture
into which Matheson's story tempts us is the thought that perhaps the
wife does get exactly what she wants that the death of her husband was
her wish all along.) In this sense the box would be like the Room in
Tarkovsky's Stalker: the stalker Porcupine goes into the
wishfulfilling Room hoping for the return of his dead brother, but
receives instead immense riches. In its very unreflective automatism
giving Porcupine exactly what he wants the Room judges and condemns
him. The political What Matheson's story also adds to "The Monkey's
Paw", of course, is the fact that the bad consequences are not simply
unintended; they were just supposed to happen to someone else. This is
what makes it so much nastier than Jacobs' tale. Whereas the family in
"The Monkey's Paw" are guilty only of foolishness and greed, the
couple in "Button, Button" knowingly trade another's death in exchange
for wealth. In The Box this is especially shocking because both Norma
and Arthur Lewis seem to be "good" people Cameron Diaz's Norma in
particular is immensely sympathetic. Perhaps what allows her to press
the button is the unresolved ontological status of the box itself; the
thought that it might be a prank (Arthur establishes that the box is
empty) allows Norma to perform a kind of fetishist disavowal ("this
might not be real, so I might as well do it"). As antagonist put it on
his Twitter feed: "the button in The Box is a nice example of how
interactivity creates anxiety & fetishistic disavowal. Diaz doesn't
believe but she believes 'the subject supposed to believe' does,
Arlington Steward being the standing for the Big Other." Here we are
back in the realm of the ethical but the ethical bleeds out into the
political. The choice to press the button has a special force in the
era of globalization and climate change. We know that our wealth and
comfort are achieved at the price of others' suffering and
exploitation, that our smallest actions contribute to ecological
catastrophe, but the causal chains connecting our actions with their
consequences are so complicated as to be unflappable they lie far
beyond not only our experience, and any possible experience. (Hence
the inadequacy of folk politics.) What the lewis are in effect asked
to do is affirm their plugging into this causal matrix to formally
accept the world and worldliness. The significance of this is that
only the negative choice counts to not press the button would be to
choose a freedom that is not available to anyone at present (we are
all so intricately embedded into the global capitalist matrix that it
isn't possible to simply opt out). But to press the button is to give
up on freedom, to choose blind determinism. The existentialist Which
brings us to the most explicit interest that Kelly introduces into The
Box: Sartre's Huis Clos. Huis Clos is everywhere in The Box; Norma, a
high school teacher, is teaching it; she and Arthur attend an amateur
dramatic performance of the play. At the point when it is becoming
evident that the Lewises' choice will not be some private shame but
will infect and destroy every aspect of their lives, the couple find
the words "No Exit" written in the condensation of their car's
windscreen. The resonance of Huis Clos is clear: this is a text about
those who can no longer choose, who have ceased to be subjects.
Fearing that they will be killed, the lewis try to return the
briefcase of money immediately, the very instant that Steward tells
them that he will be sure to give the box to someone who doesn't know
them. But the horror is that Norma and Arthur have made a choice that
means that it is now too late: they are already (as if) dead. There is
no returning the gift. It is astonishing that the briefcase containing
the money is immediately desublimated. Kelly could have had the lewis
spend the money, their enjoyment shadowed by their anxieties about
what they had done ... Instead, the briefcase is immediately dumped in
their basement, never to be seen or I think mentioned again. There is
no possibility of returning the money no way of taking back the choice
to press the button but there is no end to choosing either. Locked in
an endlessly ramifying labyrinth, Arthur and Norma keep encountering
further dilemmas but the choice is now between bad (purgatory) and
worse (hell); or else, as when Arthur is offered a choice of three
gateways, two leading to eternal damnation, one to salvation, they
have a quality of grotesque gameshow randomness. The religious The
mention of "salvation" is part of a persistent religious thread in the
film. As the alien big Other, the one conducting "research" into the
moral worth of human beings and judging them accordingly, and with the
power of damnation and redemption in his hands, Steward clearly stands
in for God. Yet he is a God who also performs the Satanic function of
tempting humans. The SF/ conspiracy Steward's position as the
(extraterrestrial) big Other, the subject supposed to know, also
somewhat echoes Sartre's discussion of the alien, as outlined by
Infinite Thought here: The Box is thick with references to conspiracy
films (and includes some of the most creeping paranoid scenes since
the remake of Invasion of the Body Snatchers. The full extent of the
collusion of the authorities with Steward's remains unclear even at
the end of the film. The threads connecting NASA, the Viking probe and
Steward's research project fray off into rumour and supposition. The
labyrinth never ends. There was a great deal of reaction to the Alice
post... Wayne Blackledge: Funny enough, I think Burton and deep
represent a lot of the neo-liberal arrogance that you point to with
regards to 'Captalist Realism'. We'll start with Johnny Depp, a pretty
good actor he had a Keatonesque cachet in his more watchable roles,
playing blank, 'masked' AMERICANS in films like 'Dead Man', 'Donnie
Brasco' or 'Gilbert Grape'. But now he seems to be determined to
colonise British 'icons' with his irritating (and misguided)
'Anglophilia': J.M. Barrie, Sweeney Todd, the Earl of Rochester, Long
John Silver ('softened' as junkie Keith Richards), Willy Wonka
('softened' as paedophile M.J.) ad nausaem. He's even done it with
U.S. 'icons' (Hunter S. Thompson, Stephen Sondheim and... Dillinger??
Where was Billy Bob Thornton??). I've heard the frequent argument that
producers 'have to' cast him as if appropriate/British actors aren't
'bankable' and we're all too stupid to be interested without Johnny's
mimicry for two hours as though you couldn't already 'presell' Alice,
Dillinger, Jack the Ripper or Treasure IslandmeetsStar Wars! I'm
afraid the likelihood of him playing Joseph K, Pip, Merlin, Dracula,
or even Bryan Ferry seems a given... I see it relating to the hideous
state of British TV and pop music these days. Lacking any imaginative
courage (and worse any faith in the public imagination), the 'suits'
decide what they think makes us interested, the already established
and overexposed get another chance to irritate us, and 'what the
people want' becomes as mysterious and manipulated as the word of God
(does deep actually guarantee a hit, as only about three stars
actually do these days?). It does indeed become a case of being
culturally 'policed' by 'lawmakers' who themselves don't have a clue
about the 'law' (or indeed if one exists). They seem to wilfully
forget that true 'cultural phenomena' (the ones that actually do
generate unbelievable longterm profits and make a cultural impact)
were considered very risky when they were 'pitched' Star Wars, The
Simpsons, HBO drama, Pixar, Seinfeld, Marvel superheroes, Dr. Dre's
hit machine etc. etc. they all came from 'the outside' to varying
degrees (without anything left to appropriate, all capital has to
process is its own washed up imaginative resources?). Now it's all
'tough guy' capitalism with the kind of safety nets considered
'unsustainable' or 'mollycoddling' for smaller cultural enterprises
(or indeed the majority of society). The modern 'bucaneer' capitalists
pride themselves on AVOIDING risk. As for Tim Burton it seems
personal. He's managed to take what I loved as an year old and concoct
'reimaginings' (regime change) into their worst versions (perhaps of
any medium) Batman, Planet of the Apes, Alice, Sleepy Hollow, Charlie
and the Chocolate Factory etc. (I dread him getting his hands on
Frankenstein, Alan Garner or even Dennis Potter) The 'big questions',
subtext and cultural specifies (which of course any child could
understand) become 'therapeutic' allegories about rich L.A. teenagers
who feel like 'outcasts' because they liked Siouxsie while the rest of
the school dug Duran Duran (what's 'at stake' in a bubble free from
peril or risk). He even managed to this with Planet of the Apes
removing any of its obvious purified references to class, race,
religion, nuclear war and species extinction all of which was easily
contemplated by my inner-city primary school). And this becomes neo-
liberal discourse's extreme of 'weirdness' and 'imagination' (how many
articles have we seen about Burton's 'unique' imagination)!
Infantilising children indeed. If it isn't (rich) adults shoving dog-
eat-dog neoliberalism into children's texts (especially in 15, 18
rated movies/music sneakily 'sold' to kids), it's the shameless
celebration of limited, timid 'imaginations'. Although I was never a
big fan of Disney, he at least INNOVATED and RISKED with his cultural
colonisation. Sorry if I've gone on a bit, but deep and Burton really
do touch a raw nerve for me (in a way that sanctimonious limit
plagiarist James Cameron doesn't). You do seem to have an uncanny
knack for bringing up stuff I think about a bit too much!Nina and I
discussing free education (me in dialogue with Mike Watson) over at
Indieoma. Burton's Alice In Wonderland is such a travesty that it
makes the 1951 Disney version seems like a masterpiece by comparision.
Perhaps that's because animation seems ideally suited to rendering the
onto/logical leaps in Carroll's psychedelic fiction, whereas CGI puts
all its energy into being "realistic", without creating any sense of
reality at all. But the most serious problem in Burton's version is
Linda Woolverton's screenplay. As many reviewers have noted, wolverton
effectively grafts elements of Oz and Narnia onto Wonderland. It was
perhaps the narnia influence via Harry Potter which induced wolverton
into introducing the messianic which so fatally betrays the spirit of
Carroll's fiction. (The same kind of cheap messianic also corrupted
Russell T Davies Dr Who.) In Woolverton's Wonderland, Alice becomes a
Prophesied Champion who will liberate the oppressed people from the
tyranny of the Red Queen by defeating the Jabberwocky. Nothing could
strike a more false note than the imposition of this facile binary
onto Carroll's beyond good and evil schizofiction. Throughout the
film, questions are raised as to whether this is the "proper" Alice,
but the viewers are never left in any doubt that this is the True
Alice; she must only have to learn to recognise herself and her
Destiny. Yes, this is a film aimed at children but must children be
infantilized to this degree? All of the troubling problems of identity
and reference so crucial to the original novels are ignored. At some
point, it'll be worth thinking through why this messianic plays such a
key role in neo-liberal culture, but, for the moment, it will suffice
to identify why its presence is toxic to Alice In Wonderland. In the
Alice books, there is the feeling that Wonderland is Alice's world
alone, yet she has no place in it. She is always late, in the way,
misunderstanding what ought to be obvious ... In this way, Carroll is
the precursor of Kafka, and ultimately Alice's Adventures In
Wonderland has far more in common with The Trial and The Castle than
with The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe or The Wizard of Oz. K's
blundering attempts to penetrate the court and the castle, his
exasperation and impotent acts of rebellion, echo Alice's frustrations
in Wonderland. The adult world as seen by children is, precisely, a
Nonsense world, incomprehensibly inconsistent, arbitrary and
authoritarian, full of bizarre rituals. Alice's friendlessness is
central to this: but in Burton's version the caterpillar, the Mad
Hatter and the Cheshire Cat are no longer artists but companions
helping Alice achieve her Destiny (Depp's "Mad" Hatter is the film's
hotpoint the Depp/ Burton relationship has long been one of mutual
indulgence, and so it proves again). It's notable also that Burton's
version downplay the linguistic anomalies which were so central to
Carroll (they are represented only by the eccentric speech of
Tweedledum and Tweedledee). Yet Caroll's Wonderland was a world of
words, constructed from the excrescences of the Symbolic (doesn't this
also account for some of the power of Carroll's tales they view the
Symbolic from the perspective of one not fully integrated into it?)
I'll confess that I've actually not seen what is reputedly one of the
best versions of Carroll, Jonathan Miller's 1965 film for the BBC.
Watching the tea party in Miller's version, you can't help but reflect
on the similarities to the entropy of Miss Havisham gothic wedding
breakfast. Pip's (non)relationship with Havisham and the other
grotesques of the adult world anticipates Alice. Indeed, much of
Alice's Adventures In Wonderland recalls the opening sections of Great
Expectations, in particular, in which, remember, the young Pip is
menaced by cows who seem to talk. Note the longueurs and the catatonia
in Miller's rendering of the tea party (this and Ravi Shankar's music
put me in mind not only of "Tomorrow Never Knows" but also "I'm Only
Sleeping"...) Me on the Hobbesian Gnosticism of The Road in Film
Quarterly... There will be a discussion of Capitalist Realism at the
Itchy Chin Club (an "art, culture, politics, history and philosophy
book group based in central London") on just March. Details here. All
welcome. The Wire Salon: relevant Forms: The Meaning of tautology A
new series of monthly salontype events, hosted by The Wire magazine at
Cafe Oto in East London, and dedicated to the fine art and practice of
thinking and talking about music. The evenings, which will take place
on the first Thursday of each month, will consist of readings,
discussions, panel debates, film screenings, DJ sets and even the
occasional live performance. For the first event in the series,
relevant Forms: The Meaning of Hauntology, Mark Fisher (KPunk) and
Adam Harper (Rogue's Foam) will head a panel debating the essence of
the spectral, uncanny qualities of much contemporary audio, from
dusted to hypnagogic pop and beyond. The night will also include
screenings of a number of short films by Julian House (Ghost Box, The
Focus Group), which feature soundtracks by Broadcast, melbury Poly and
others; a live set by Moon Wiring Club; and eldritch vinyl interludes
courtesy of Mordant Music. There's been a room change for my talk
tomorrow at King's .... it will now be in K.3.11, Strand campus, time
the same (6 p.m.) Back soon, but in the meantime, be sure to check out
Chris Petit's remarkable film, Content, on more tomorrow night. Here's
my take on the film....Just a series of links and responses, pending a
proper post once I get through the current blizzard of commitments. 1.
Things are clearly hotting up, as Nina's report from Take Back
Education indicates. In respect of Jim Wolfreys' demand that senior
management appy for their jobs, a recent ecu newsletter at King's
reports the following: But why should anyone working in public sector
education get anything like as much as 100 000? 60 grand is enough for
anyone to live in extreme comfort and if they don't like it, by all
means head for the private sector... 2. I'll be going right into the
heart of the malestrom, giving a talk next week at King's, entitled
"Kafka 2010: Capitalist Realism after the crisis". It's at 6.00pm, 11
March 2010, The Old Committee Room, King's Building, Strand Campus,
King's College London. All are welcome, but if you want to attend,
please drop me line so we have an idea of how many people are going to
come. 3. The precast of the goldsmiths bureaucracy event has been
unloaded at amazing speed, it was up the date after the event by the
superb Rene Wolf and his Back Door Broadcasting. If you've read the
book, skip to Alberto's talk (in which, amongst many other things, he
introduces the priceless concept of precognition capitalism) and the
discussion, in which a number of important issues came up. Here's the
response of one attendee: Another hidden function of the bureaucratic
processes in which lecturers are constantly embroiled is to control
them. An example of this is the disciplinary system at my college. If
a student is late the lecturer is supposed to issue them with a late
slip, which is an official looking piece of paper with designated
spaces for the date, time on entering the class, number of minuets
late, course, course code, learner name, learner code, teacher name,
group tutor name, a reason for the lateness, and, finally, a space for
both the student and the teacher to sign and date it. Three late slips
result a misdemeanour, another form that demands all of the previous
information (times, dates, course, course code, reasons, etc) be
repeated. After three more late slips you issue the student with a
misconduct form. Here, again, the same information is repeated almost
as though it were possible to change behaviour simply through
repeatedly recording these facts. Three more late slips result in the
student being issued with a gross misconduct form, which is meant to
be the point at which their commitment to the course is seriously
called into question. At any point in the process the lecturer can
perform a what is know as a board of study, during which they sit down
with the student and discuss the reasons for their lateness (of course
any lecturer genuinely concerned about a students progress will have
been doing this already). The problem with all of this is that it can
go nowhere. The unofficial policy of the college, which is
deliberately leaked to the teaching staff through various channels, is
that the college cannon afford to lose a single student. Each student
on a full time course is worth 5,000 to the college (more if they have
specific learning disabilities) and the statistics for retention are
closely tied to course funding for the next academic year. The
students know this, they are aware that they will be kept on the
course no matter what their level of punctuality or attendance drops
to. They are aware that they can take off weeks at a time with
impunity and some of them take full advantage of this knowledge.
However, it is too simplistic to conclude from this that the colleges
disciplinary procedure is dysfunctional; rather it is that the real
function of the procedure, its true subject, is concealed. So who is
the real subject of the colleges disciplinary procedure? The answer is
of course the teaching staff. If they fail to strictly adhere to a
disciplinary procedure that they know to be meaningless and which
arguably places a barrier of contractual formality between them and
the students, which inhibits rather than facilitates communication, it
is they themselves who stand to be disciplined. When a students
attendance and punctuality are audited, if the lecturer cannon produce
all of the accompanying paperwork (which serves the virtual college)
then they will stand to account for it, because, unlike students
lecturers can be got rid of. The same logic runs throughout the
system, with lecturers being made culpable for every aspect of the
students performance as well as their physical and emotional
wellbeing. It is not that lecturers shouldnt be concerned about the
wellbeing of their students, but the college makes it their
responsibility to monitor these pastoral aspects without any
recognition of the time it takes to do so effectively, let alone to
complete the attendant paperwork that evidences their actions and
serves the virtual college. For students in further education the onus
for every aspect of their education has been taken away from them and
instead foisted onto the lecturing staff. That the sector is largely a
provider of post compulsory education hardly seems to matter, targets
from central government and a lack of meaningful opportunities mean
that the element of genuine choice has largely evaporated.
Furthermore, every aspect of provision is warped and constricted by
necessary compliance with reactionary and contingent initiatives,
which are implemented through methods of funding allocation. This is
how young people are conditioned either for higher education and
independent study or for the world of work, or what is left of it. It
seems symptomatic of society, which seeks to strip individuals of
their agency and incorporate them passively into a system of
decentralised control. Which brings me to the aspect I found most
striking about Capitalist Realism, how you use current initiatives in
further education as an illustration indicative of the effects of the
imposition of a business ontology throughout every aspect of the
public (and private) sphere. My own experience in the sector, which
your book has enabled me to conceptualise, has enabled me to perceive
this shift acutely in a wider context. I have yet to read a more
concise diagnosis of the poisonous atmosphere which capitalism has
engendered for all but the wealthiest of citizens. Modernisation, not
destruction .... via An excellent post at Lenin's Tomb, on Channel 4's
recent, dreadful commentary on the Royal Mail, and on the response of
the pseudonymous postal worker Roy Mayall to the progamme. As Lenin
points out, Mayall's book Dear Granny Smith is a wonderful read. It's
a great companion piece to Capitalist Realism, in fact, and anyone who
has enjoyed Capitalist Realism's account of the immigration of public
service labour will get a lot from Dear Granny Smith . Actually,
another dimension of capitalist realism came into focus after reading
Roy Mayall's response to the Dispatches documentary, and his reply to
the producer's defence of the documentary. This kind of "undercover
filming"style documentary is one version capitalist realism. It
presents us with an apparently unmediated, ostensibly politicised
"reality", our perception of which is in fact shaped by the
(misleading) "context" provided by "experts". Barnes writes: In at
least one sense and here we return to the perennial problem of the
inadequacies of naive empiricism the undercover footage isn't "real".
The decontextualised behaviours shown onscreen certainly aren't as
real as the abstract processes which engendered them, but which can't
be captured by an undercover camera. In the film, "bad industrial
relations" were implicitly treated as something akin to bad weather
(the kind of bad weather, we had to conclude, however, that only
affects public organisations). In the lack of any proper explanation,
the behaviour of the postal workers could only look like senseless
truculence or abject dilatoriness. It was as if the labour disputes
had nothing whatsoever to do with the corporate management none of
whom were seen at any point in the documentary (all we saw were
harassed low-level managers, themselves no doubt forced to implement
directives imposed from above). As Mayall argues, what the documentary
singularly fails to address is any of the key questions. Noone, least
of all, Roy Mayall is denying that Royal Mail service has deteriorated
over recent years this, in fact, is one of the themes of his book. The
question is why this has happened. One problem was that the
documentary rested on an equivocation of the meaning of the "Royal
Mail"; the "Royal Mail as currently run" (which everyone can agree is
below par) was equated with the Royal Mail per se. What the
documentary perforce had to screen out was antagonism. The fact is,
the "Royal Mail" does not exist as unitary entity, only as a site of
struggle. The antagonism couldn't be entirely edited out, of course
but it was made to appear absurd, almost comedic, a nonsensical war of
attrition. Again, we were implicitly invited to draw the conclusion
that this kind of thing only happens in the public sector. The
documentary traded on an unjustified series of equivalences, most of
them unstated (and all the more powerfully informing what we were
seeing because they were unstated, just part of the ambient
ideological fabric) : the Royal Mail = publicly owned company =
inefficient = lazy workers = poor service. But Mayall's book makes it
plain that the reasons that the Royal Mail service has declined is not
because it is some publicly owned dinosaur, but very much to the
contrary because of the way it has been neoliberalised: The
documentary highlighted the problem of casual labour, and, indeed, as
Mayall observes, how can poorly trained casual workers be expected to
have the same level of probity or motivation as properly employed
postal workers? But, once again, the documentary told us nothing about
why Royal Mail is using increasing amounts of casual labour and, of
course, it neglected to point out that visualisation of labour is only
likely to increase if RM leaves public ownership. Bizarrely, the
removal of a skilled, permanent workforce and its replacement with
transient, casual labour is always presented as a way to increase
"efficiency", but, here as elsewhere, "efficiency" doesn't mean a
better organised, higher quality service; it is another euphemism for
the same process of getting fewer workers to do more work, with the
inevitable consequence that, (surprise, surprise) the service becomes
soldier even as the executive salaries increase. But, no matter how
many crappy call centres people have to deal with, the illusion
persists that private companies are more "efficient" and provide
"better service" than anything publicly owned. Of course, this
perception has been managed and shaped by the kind of self-serving
"experts" who provided the commentatorial context on the Dispatches
documentary:During the course of the programme we were offered the
views of three commentators. There was Richard Hooper, author of a
report that provided the basis for Peter Mandelson's suggestion last
year that the Royal Mail be partprivatised. There was Dr Madsen Pirie
of the Adam Smith Institute, which last year published an article
suggesting that the universal delivery obligation should be abandoned.
And then there was Jonathan carteret who, in the words of the
programme, "helps companies switch from Royal Mail to rival
operators". All three of the "experts", in other words, had a
commitment to privatisation of mail services. Interesting response
from Cold Calling to the precocity and Paternalism post .... More
here... An update from my anonymous correspondent: Just spotted the
quote from my original email. Since then I was fired (without warning,
representation, 'appraisal' or even any meetings since the first week
of employment). Reasons given: I wasn't spending enough time with the
'trainees' I explained the absurd audit/CRB/risk assessment/evaluation
trail that I had to keep up with, but apparently this meant I should
have worked about ten more hours than contracted, like my far more
desperate, scared and eager to please counterpart did. Or failing
that, I wasn't related to the staunchly 'socialist' bosses like most
of the employees (and quite a few trainees) were. 'Activism' or
'professionalised' leftwing politics does often seem to descend into
crude nepotism, lazy corruption and the idea that wooing westminster
pursecarriers is the way to emancipation. But maybe that's just a
Northern thing (this hasn't challenged my political beliefs, just any
faith in those who claim to 'lead' them). Yes new networks (even
'orthodoxies') are required for the left to lift itself above the
level of a deeply compromised 'club' in this country. I kept 'asking
too many questions' I asked about a question a week (no meetings or
appraisals, right?) and usually only to clear any policy/legal
giddiness (that wasn't really answered anyway). Yes 9 to 5 did feel
like Jason Bourne in a Kubrick movie written by Kafka my failure was
not pretending to 'know'. There is a room change for the bureaucracy
event at Goldsmiths tomorrow. It's now been moved to a bigger room
that's easier to find Room p3a in the Main Building... The recent
discussion of elitism (a topic also broached by Adam Curtis's film on
Charlie Brooker's newsline this week) brings me back to the question
of what in the continuing lack of any alternative term I must still
refer to as "paternalism". I think Taylor Parkes got to what is at
stake in these discussions in his rather moving Quietus piece about
Trunk's Life On Earth release: It's worth reminding ourselves of the
peculiar logic that neoliberalism has successfully imposed. Treating
people as if they were intelligent is, we have been led to believe,
"elitist", whereas treating them as if they are stupid is
"democratic". It should go without saying that the assault on cultural
elitism has gone alongside the aggressive restoration of a material
elite. Parkes touches here on the right way to think about paternalism
not (just) as something prescriptive, but in terms of the gift and the
surprise. The best gifts are those we wouldn't have choose for
ourselves not because we would have overlooked or rejected them, but
because we simply wouldn't have thought of them. neo-liberal "choice"
traps you in yourself, allowing you to select amongst minimally
different versions of what you have already chosen; paternalism wagers
on a different "you", a you that does not yet exist. (All of which
resonates with J J Charlesworth's illuminating piece on the management
of the ICA in Mute, with its attack on the assumption that "what the
audience wants is merely what the institution should do.")
Neoliberalism may have been sustained by a myth of entrepreneurialism,
a myth that the folk economics of programmes like The Apprentice and
Dragon's Den have played their part in propagating, but the kind of
"entrepreneurs" that dominate our culture whether they be Bill Gates,
Simon Cowell or Duncan Bannatyne have not invented new products or
forms, they have just invented new ways of making money. Good for
them, no doubt, but hardly something that the rest of us should be
grateful for. (The genius of Cowell was to have plugged a very old
cultural form into new machineries of interpassivity.) And for all the
bluster about entrepreneurialism, it is remarkable how risk-averse
late capitalism's culture is there has never been a culture more
homogenous and standardized, more repetitive and feardriven. I was
struck by the contrast between Parkes' piece and an article by that
Caitlin Moran wrote in the wake of the announcement that Jonathan Ross
is to leave the BBC. "After [Ross's] 18 million contract," Moran
wrote, The real question, however, is what would happen to the BBC if
it didnt? If the only people who work for the BBC are those in it for
the sheer love of it  those who would piously turn down double the
wages from ITV  the BBC would rapidly become the middleclass liberal
pink pantywaist institution of the Daily Mails nightmares, and, I
suspect, fold within five years. A few people have mailed about the
bureaucracy event on Friday at Goldsmiths with Matt Fuller and Alberto
Toscano. I want to confirm that the event is open to all, no
registration required, and that it is definitely taking place between
2 and 4. Speaking of NuBureaucracy, a reader who would like to remain
anonymous writes: The 'community' centre is run by ageing militant
councillors/activists in my experience, often the most desperate and
manically obedient access of 'project' funds (and somewhat Stalinist
to anyone who points out logistical contradictions etc.). It may even
be perversely 'socialist' in that every F.J.F. employee is paid the
same regardless of experience, age, education, skill or job title.
Although intended for unemployed 'youth', the dip and Job Centres have
taken an almost sadistic glee in referring single mothers of very
young children and the middle-aged (they adjusted the goal posts after
realising 'youth' can still get access to free education or training
here and there, rather than cleaning corridors for six months). The
obsessive auditing (largely guessed at, because the DWP's stipulations
were vague and poorly thought through, as is typical of New Labour)
has made it impossible to actually 'train' or 'mentor' the employees
as required. For those taken on, the auditing has trickled down from
job centre referral (all personal details must be recorded even of
those who are informed of vacancies but decline to attend) to
interview (70% forms, 30% questions) to cry check (this takes up about
half the week, explaining the ridiculous levels of surveillance and
questioning required for a major and demanding forms of ID not easily
accessed by the poorest people in the country). The clincher is the
timesheets the ff employees are mainly based all around the city as
'placements' (as classroom assistants, drivers, receptionists etc.
etc.) but all 200 workers' timesheets must have three signatures
accounting for each week handed in by Friday, otherwise pay isn't
processed. This is overseen by three supervisors and one
administrator. It was recently announced that the timesheets
previously used were 'wrong' as they had the wrong logos (!) and
certain boxes to be ticked weren't printed on them. Now we have to
backtrack several months of timesheets, from all around the city (they
ALL need the placement supervisors' signatures accounting for every
single hour worked since October). The timesheet issue became
particularly absurd during Xmas and the snow chaos that followed, as
we had to determine who was 'genuinely' off or just using the holidays
or snow as an 'excuse' (by using the minibus driver to tour us round
so we could check every signing in book). Did I mention that along
with timesheets, CRB, job centre 'liaison', interview, contract, and
signature required for various 'policies', I also have to check each
and every workplace down to its insurance provider and fire hose
details? Needless to say, those I expected to 'mentor' (monitor) have
become an indiscriminate blur to me as I spend the first three hours
of every day working out what forms they/I haven't filled in yet. No
one ever seems to check them, and when the government auditor comes,
he only seems to need one afternoon. However, every 'senior' employee
here spends the week in a blind panic babbling about the 'audit
trail'. The management is autocratic without being clear, aggressive
without any target, and insistent that numbers and places are filled
immediately which itself has threw up certain problems when we're
pressured to 'hire' people before crabs or references are checked. Its
an ugly, confusing, desperate place to work and I'm looking for an
escape route that won't mean benefit suspension (each job I've had
seems to accelerate the rate of auditing to a dizzying degree, the
shorter the contract the more forms I collect). The levels of
bewilderment combined with blind obedience at all levels is a worrying
microcosm of just century Britain in so many ways. The general
ineptitude and overworked martyrdom is so ingrained that the only
'social' contact remaining is very childish feuds, gossip and
mysterious, defensive glares when anyone asks a question about how
something is done. Funnily enough, the government has just given the
go-ahead for my centre to 'deliver' 200 more jobs with the same staff
overseeing it! Get me the fuck outta here...A reader writes: Some
other interesting responses to Capitalist Realism here, here, and
here, which I will engage with in more detail when I've got through my
current thicket of marking, teaching, editing, freelance deadlines and
public appearances. (I also have posts on paternalism and Richard
Kelly's The Box which are very near completion but they've been in
that state for quite some time.) Dan Jenkins writes: If all of this
auditing really did weed out those poor teachers there may well be a
purpose in it but it rarely does  poor teachers survive because they
are better than no teacher and generally get given a good reference
when they evince signs that they want to move on (the etc is a whole
other can of worms)  and yes I agree those that can fill in forms,
find meaning and comfort in meaningless data and the set meaningless
targets for others tend to rise to the top. The thing that struck me
most was your reference to the cost  the hidden cost in what appears
to be a costless process  the psychic cost, the wearying cost which
reduces good teachers to tired teachers. I dont know if you have
looked at the new ousted grading system  to be accorded Outstanding
now a teacher must engage all pupils/students at all times  a
requirement which appears to many (including myself) as ridiculous.
Yet rather than institutions pointing this out and thus refusing to
play the game, they have working parties set up to try and achieve
this impossible dream. It seems that the Olympic motto of Higher,
Faster, Longer (or whatever it is) has now become the motto of
Education. "Graham's claims about those calling for revolution seem a
little off," writes Paul John Ennis , of my recent conversation with
Graham. "For one there is almost a constant cloud of cautiousness that
hangs over leftism today and Badiou, for one, does not push for a
classic revolution but something like carving out autonomous spaces
zones within capital but resistant to it." Reid was also very troubled
by the post. A measure of clarification is called for. It isn't that
anyone is calling for a revolution on the contrary, there are very few
such calls so much as that there is a continuing appeal to revolution,
an alleged revolutionary identification. This not only amounts to a
weak messianic gesture, it is also completely at variance with the
institutionalized nature of cultural Marxism that Paul describes:
"cultural Marxism finds a safe ground in the midst of academia where
ones commitment is always partial and never costly". What this
produces in continentals leftism is a kind of camp solemnity, and I
fully share Graham's exasperation with it. In Paul's own excellent
book of interviews, PostContinental Voices (forthcoming on Zer0), Ian
boost describes very well a familiar disjunction: Moreover, I can
grant everything that Reid and Alex Andrews in the comments say about
the practicalempirical left (noone involved in leftist organisations
really expects a total and immediate eschatological transformation of
society, nor have they for at least a half a century). But this is to
ignore the traces that the the concept "revolution" carries with it,
and the way that the left (of whatever stripe) remains haunted by
those traces. I believe that "revolution" is and has been for a long
time a malignant ghost for the left, and one of the regrettable
effects of radio and cizek has been to revive it. The fact that radio
no longer thinks that either a Jacobin or a Leninist revolution is
possible, that all we can hope for is some miserable "autonomy" from
Capital, only compounds this impasse. The effect of continually
invoking the violent theatre of Jacobin revolt can only make small
zones of autonomy appear even more paltry, producing a sense of gloomy
resignation very far from the "encouragement" that radio seeks to
engender. But the alternative to this resignation is not Zizek's
relentless litany of RobespierreLeninMao; radio is surely right that
the time for that kind of politics is long gone. cizek should be taken
at his word; a real repetition of Lenin would entail a break from
Lenin and, I would add, from the coordinates of that exhausted
tradition. When radio says that we must invent the "communist
hypothesis" again, from nothing, that is also correct, provided that
the word "communist" alongside "emancipatory", "progressive",
"radical" can itself be dispensed with: such words, dulled by their
ceaseless circulation in the cultural left and by their appropriation
in Capital's NuLanguage, taste stale in our mouths. radio is nowhere
more inspiring than when he writes of how "exalting" the task of
inventing a new politics in the current conditions can be. And cizek
is right when he says that the very apparent hopelessness of the
current situation ought to licence an experimental attitude towards
politics. So let's be clear. I'm very far from saying that nothing can
ever change. There has been some discussion of whether Capitalist
Realism is a pessimistic book. For me, it isn't pessimistic, but it is
negative. The pessimism is already embedded in everyday life it is
what cizek would call the "spontaneous unreflective ideology" of our
times. Identifying the embedded, unreflective pessimism is an act of
negativity which, I hope, can make some contribution to denaturalizing
that pessimism (which, by its very nature, does not identify itself as
such, and is covered over by a compulsory positivity which forbids
negativity). Far from nothing ever changing, something already has
changed, massively the bank crisis was an event without a subject,
whose implications are yet to be played out. The terrain the crashed
present, littered with the ideological rubble of failed projects is
there to be fought over. And I believe that it can be seized by those
who have been most deeply cooked in neoliberalism and postFordism, not
the French immobilisers, the nostalgic 68ers, the hay bale agragrians,
or anyone else resigned to playing Canute to the rising tide of
Capital. We can only win if we reclaim modernization. (On which, there
are some excellent strategic suggestions by David Harvey here. Great
title too, with a wonderful hyperstitional puissance: "Organizing for
the anti-capitalist Transition".) The response by some comments to
Peter Hallward's essential piece on Haiti shows once again why The
Guardian's Comment Is Free is so often one of the most depressing
sites on the net. In a swamp of middle mass complacency like CiF,
you'd expect the howls of "Halfwitted pseudomarxist gibberish", but
what of the staggering: "You can't bring history into this." Then
there's the crushingly predictable: "Are you absolutely sure that this
is a good time to be scoring political points?" This liberal
commonplace needs to be completely overturned. What is the implication
here? That to confront the real, longterm causes of why so many died
is somehow not "respecting" them? Needless to say, the idea that
politics should be suspended in the face of suffering is the very
hallmark of contemporary ideology. Now is not the time for political
discussion, we'll look at the longterm causes later .... But, since
Band Aid this "emergency" temporality has become a permanent state of
affairs, allowing neoliberalism to further strengthen its hegemony
under the cloak of "postpolitics". Of course some even claim that the
concept of "neoliberalism" itself is "gibberish" spouted by only by
"halfwitted Marxists". What this kind of claim establishes is the
depressing reach and power that capitalist realism has over large
areas of the British middle class. The real capitalist realists are
not those working in neo-liberal think tanks, who know full well that
neoliberalism is a political project that has to be ruthlessly,
continually enforced, but those who deny the existence of
neoliberalism itself; they are the liberal dupes who, in the name of a
"realism" that routinely ignores facts and evidence while pretending
to appeal to them, propagate a "commonsense" which takes place inside
the reality system instantiated by neoliberalism. One irony of this
squeamishness about "bringing politics" into situations of mass human
suffering, of course, is that, as Naomi Klein consummately
demonstrated in The Shock Doctrine, the neo-liberal project has
depended on its ability to rapidly helicopter into just these
situations and exploit them. It is ready to do so again. Witness, for
instance, the initial pronouncements of the Heritage Foundation the
text was subsequently changed, but here is what it originally said:
Amidst the Suffering, Crisis in Haiti Offers Opportunities to the U.S.
In addition to providing immediate humanitarian assistance, the U.S.
response to the tragic earthquake in Haiti earthquake offers
opportunities to reshape Haitis longdysfunctional government and
economy as well as to improve the public image of the United States in
the region While on the ground in Haiti, the U.S. military can also
interrupt the nightly flights of cocaine to Haiti and the Dominican
Republic from the Venezuelan coast and counter the ongoing efforts of
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez to destabilize the island of
Hispaniola. This U.S. military presence, which should also include a
large contingent of U.S. Coast Guard assets, can also prevent any
largescale movement by Haitians to take to the sea in rickety
watercraft to try to enter the U.S. illegally. Meanwhile, the U.S.
must be prepared to insist that the Haiti government work closely with
the U.S. to insure that corruption does not infect the humanitarian
assistance flowing to Haiti. Longterm reforms for Haitian democracy
and its economy are also badly overdue. 24pm12th February 2010Council
RoomLaurie Grove BathsCentre for Cultural StudiesGoldsmiths
Neoliberalism presents itself as the enemy of bureaucracy, the
destroyer of tenancy state and the eliminator of red tape. Mark
Fisher's Capitalist Realism (Zer0 books, 2009) argues that, contrary
to this widely accepted story, bureaucracy has proliferated under
neoliberalism. Far from decreasing, bureaucracy has changed form,
spreading all the more insidiously in its newly decentralised mode.
This 'nubureaucracy' is often carried out by workers themselves, now
induced into being their own auditors. Capitalist Realism aims to
challenge the successful ideological doublethink in which workers'
experience of increasing bureaucratisation coexists with the idea that
bureaucracy belongs to a 'Stalinist' past. This symposium will explore
bureaucracy and other related concepts developed in Capitalist
Realism, such as 'business ontology' and 'market Stalinism'. How has
bureaucracy affected education and public services, and how can it be
resisted? What implications might the attack on bureaucracy have for a
renewed anticapitalism? Respondent, Alberto Toscano, Department of
Sociology WEIRD TALES FOR WINTER Weird Tales for Winter is a
tautological collective experience to be broadcast over 8 days from
with January 2010 on Resonance 104.4 FM. Send a message to
exoticpylon[at]gmail.com titled 'subscribe' for further updates,
images and all kind of stuff... TRANSMISSION SCHEDULEbroadcast time
midnight on Resonance 104.4 FM 25/01/10Moon Wiring ClubMinuke by Nigel
Kneale 26/01/10West Norwood Cassette Library and Matthew de AbaituaThe
Dinner Party Wars by Mathew de Abaitua 27/01/10Dolly DollyDeath, Taxes
and the Fireplace(being a story concerning love above all)
28/01/10Belbury Poly and Lawrence NorfolkHis Name was Legion by Sir
Andrew Caldecott 29/01/10 (Live)Radio joyce Haunted Beach by john
Brown 30/01/10Mordant musiche Bells Will Sound Forever by Thomas gotti
31/01/10Vanessa DaouLove Among the Shadowed Things 01/02/10John
FoxxWhen You Walk Through Me Watching Avatar, I was continually
reminded of Zizek's observation in First As Tragedy, Then As Farce,
that the one good thing that capitalism did was destroy Mother Earth.
"There's no green there, they killed their mother," we are solemnly
informed at one point. avtar is in some ways a reversal of Cameron's
Aliens. If the "bughunt" in Aliens was, as virgilio argued, a kind of
rehearsal for the megamachinic slaughter of Gulf War 1, then avtar is
a heavy-handed ecosermon and parable about US misadventures in Iraq
and Afghanistan. (What's remarkable about avtar is how dated it looks.
In the scenes of military engagement, it is as if is cyberpunk
confronts something out of Roger Dean or the most videogames;
Cameron's vision of military technology has not moved on since Aliens)
At the end of the film, it is the human corporate and military
interests who are described as "aliens". But this is a film without
any trace of the alien. Like most CGI extravaganzas, it flares on the
retina but leaves few traces in the memory. Greg Egan finds little to
admire in Avatar, but he does defer to its technical achievements:
"mostly, the accomplishments of the visual designers and the army of
technicians who've brought their conception to the screen appear
pixelperfect, and hit the spot where the brain says 'yes, this is
real'." The cost of this, though, is that it is very difficult to be
immersed in the film as fiction. It is more akin to a themepark ride,
a latecapitalist "experience", than a film. What we have in avtar is
another instance of corporate anti-capitalism such as I discussed in
Capitalist Realism in relation to WallE. Cameron has always been a
proponent of Hollywood anticapitalism: stupid corporate interests were
the villains in Aliens and Terminator 2 as they are in Avatar. avtar
is Le Guinlite, a degraded version of the scenario that Le gain
developed in novels such as The Word For World Is Forest, The
Dispossessed and City Of Illusions, but stripped of all Le Guin's
ambivalence and intelligence. What is foreclosed in the opposition
between a predatory technologies capitalism and a primitive
organicism, evidently, is the possibility of a modern, technologies
anticapitalism. It is in presenting this pseudoopposition that avtar
functions as an ideological symptom. No primitivism cliche is left
untouched in Cameron's depiction of the Na'vi people and their world,
Pandora. These elegant blueskinned noble savages are at one with their
beautiful world; they are deleuze Spinozists who recognise that a
vital flow pervades everything; they respect natural balance; they are
adept hunters, but, after they kill their prey they thank its "brother
spirit"; the trees whisper with the voices of their revered ancestors.
(Quite why skirmishes with the Na'vi and their bows and arrows should
have prompted Steven Lang's grizzled colonel into Apocalypse godlike
disquisitions on how Pandora made for is his worst experience in war,
is unclear.) "There's nothing we have that they want," concludes Sam
Worthington's Jake Sully of the Na'vi. Yet the Na'vi predictably
seduce Sully, who quickly "forgets everything" about his former life
on earth (about which we learn almost nothing, beyond the fact that he
is a marine who got injured in the course of battle) and embraces the
wholeness of the Na'vi way of life. Sully attains wholeness through
his avtar Na'vi body in a double sense: first, because the avtar is
ablebodied, and, secondly, because the Na'vi are intrinsically more
"whole" than the (self)destructive humans. Sully, the marine who is
"really" a treehugging primitive, is a paradigm of that late
capitalist subjectivity which disavow its modernity. There's something
wonderfully ironic about the fact that Sully's and our identification
with the Na'vi depends upon the very advanced technology that the
Na'vi's way of life makes impossible. But a telling tic in the film is
the repeated compulsion to explain the persistence of (physical)
wounds among the human characters. Given the level of technology in
the film's 2051, both Sully's useless legs and the colonel's scars
could easily have been repaired, and the script goes out of its way to
say why the two characters they remain disabled and maimed
respectively: in Sully's case, it's because he can't afford the
medical treatment; in the colonel's, it's because he "likes to be
reminded of what he's up against". Such explanations are clearly
unconvincing the narrative underdetermined wounds can only be
explained as libidinal residue which the film cannon fully digest into
its digital Imaginary. The wounds prevent the disavowal of modern
subjectivity and technology which avtar attempts at the very same
moment that the film invites us to admire it as a technological
spectacle. If we are to escape from the impasse of capitalist realism,
if we are to come up with an authentic and genuinely sustainable model
of green politics (where the sustainability is a matter of libido, not
only of natural resources), we have to overcome these disavowals.
There is no way back from the parricide which was the precondition for
the emergence of modern subjectivity. To quote one of my favourite
passages in First As Tragedy: "Fidelity to the communist Idea means
that, to repeat, Arthur Rimbaud, ... we should remain absolutely
modern and reject the all too glib generalization whereby the critique
of capitalism morphs into the critique of 'modern instrumental reason'
or 'modern technological civilization'." The issue is, rather, how
modern technological civilization can be organised in a different way.
After reading Capitalist Realism, Graham Harman had a few questions
for me. I present our email dialogue below. I don't disagree with
anything here. The Left hasn't been sufficiently imaginative, and I
take it that the Jameson/Zizek formula that's so central to Capitalist
Realism it's easier to imagine the end of the world than the end of
capitalism was an admission of that failure. But it also pointed to
the ways in which the conditions for new thinking just haven't been in
place. The problem isn't imagination itself; the failure of
imagination was a symptom of real impasses.I also agree that the
opposition between revolution and reform has become a facile
commonplace, a kind of religious doctrine which we are required to pay
lip service to. One of the reasons I'm interested in Nick Srnicek's
work is that he is trying to think of alternatives to this binary by
looking at how sustainable political change actually happens. One
problem with the reformrevolution binary and I think this is
absolutely relates to the point about finite versus infinite demands
is that it sets the bar so ridiculously high, such that anything short
of a total and immediate eschatological transformation of society will
count as a failure. The right doesn't have this problem; it has
concrete and determinate aims but achieving those aims actually
allowed it to achieve a total switch in the system that governs social
reality. This was more insidious than the Revolution which dominates
the old Left (lack of) imagination certain events, such as the Miners
Strike in the UK, were clearly crucial, both for their symbolic and
for their practical effects, but the neo-liberal fought an nutritional
campaign, waged on many frontsover a long period of time. Yes.
Revolution particularly among the academic Left has too often become
something one is committed to in the same sense that one has a
particular aesthetic orientation or group affiliation. We criticise
positions for being "too reformist" without really thinking that there
is anything much more than an academic parlour game at stake. Because
the discussions are detached from credible, determinate proposals,
they are part of the end of history rather than an alternative to it.
As Alex Williams has rightly argued, the differences between, say,
Deleuze and radio mean a lot in continental philosophy, but they don't
have any purchase politically in the lack of any agents corresponding
to these positions. I'm not sure Jameson would say that he is more
imaginative than Jobs. One of the best aspects of Jameson and cizek
for that matter is that he has never given up on what for me is the
crucial Marxist idea that an authentic anti-capitalism must develop
out of capitalism at its most modern and modernizing. There are some
rousing passages in both First As Tragedy, Then As Farce and valence
Of The Dialectic which reiterate this commitment. And Jameson's essay
on "WalMart as Utopia" (also in Valences) is a tremendous attempt to
think in this way, against the moralizing and agrarian tendencies in
certain stripes of anticapitalism. anti-capitalism has to struggle
over modernization, not reject it.The problem with any attempt to
posit an anti-capitalism opposed to phones and pods is not only that
it invites accusations of inconsistency here we all are, fermenting
anti-capitalist discontent on the internet but that it surrenders the
inorganic and therefore also libido to capitalism. For me, the crucial
discovery of modernist theory and art is that libido is inorganic: as
everyone from Freud through to eisenstein and Burroughs have
recognised, libido montages, it cuts and pastes, it's no respecter of
organic wholeness. That's a good question. But the point is not that
post-fordist capitalism's tendency towards pastiche and recapitulation
is unique or unprecedented. It's rather to counter the image of
capitalism presented by capitalism itself, as it were as ceaselessly
inventive, mutant force. What I wanted to draw attention to was the
curious phenomenon whereby the kinds of social and economic
instability peculiar to post-fordism correlate with stasis and
retrospection at the cultural level. I think what was unique and
interesting about Cobain and Generation X, the step they took on from
punk, was in starting from the awareness that everything was
commodified, contained. It was as if Nirvana began where the Pistols
had ended, with Rotten's moment of disgust and despair at Winterland:
"ever get the feeling you've been cheated?" Any jarring to the system
that they caused was of an Althusserian kind it consisted in
demonstrating the omniphagic power of the System itself. Nevermind is
saturated with reflexive impotence: "Here we are now, entertain us",
"I know it's wrong, but what can I do?" An almost cosmic sense of
uselesness, inertia, lassitude: "I feel stupid and contagious."At the
same time, I agree that the emphasis on the omnipotent power of
commodification is not helpful. That becomes another religious notion.
Everything is commodifiable; as Lyotard insisted in Libidinal Economy,
there is no pure subversive region immune to the commodity form. But
commodities aren't just commodities. Something of this debate was at
stake in the (successful) campaign to get Rage Against The Machine to
be the Christmas number one here. It doesn't matter that Rage are a
Sony act and that the corporations win either way; or, rather, if that
does matter, it is only one dimension of what is happening. What you
have with the X Factor single is not just something that makes money,
but whose sole raison d'etre is to make money. People bought into the
Rage campaign because they wanted something more from culture than
that. In a way, it's a nostalgia for older forms of repressive
desublimation! But, given how conservative the Restoration has become,
this is not nothing. I like the line you quote from labour in Prince
Of Networks about politicians being the best we can hope for. Some
might take that as quietist resignation in line with Latour's
apparently neo-liberal politics. But I take it as the right kind of
realism, and an incitement to start with the problems of
institutionalisation and organisation instead of regarding them as
some Fall from the moment of revolutionary rapture. No doubt, the
Cultural Revolution of the is to which radio pledges allegiance had to
happen but we can't keep acting as if the problem is a centralizing
State or a Stalinist Party structure. At the same time, no simple
return to a centralizing State or a strong party is possible either
which is why so many of Zizek's political provocations amount to what
Alex Williams calls "comedy Stalinism". In many ways, I would argue
that the "politics of the event" articulated (albeit very differently,
of course) by Deleuze and radio is an elaborate apologetics for an
actual political failure. The injunctions to keep faith with the
event, the claim that Chronos doesn't matter, only the atomic event:
both are a kind of theology of consolation, akin to Paul's shifting in
position when it became clear that Christ was not going to return
immediately. Obligatory affirmations conceals a surreptitious
melancholy.For me, Badiou's value lies in his rousing encouragement
for anti-capitalist struggle, his contempt for "democratic
materialism" (the postmodern ontology of bodies and languages), what
Peter Hallward characterises as the rejection of worldliness, and his
periodization of what we are living through as a moment of
Restoration. But the central problem with Badiou's philosophy as I
understand it is its retrospective quality. Everything has already
happened. It is literally preaching to the converted. The irony, of
course, is pointed to in your question in that it is hard to imagine
anyone actually being converted by Badiou. But it is possible to
imagine cizek converting people; indeed, he had that effect on me,
rousing me from my neo-liberal slumber. No doubt radio describes a
certain kind of militant phenomenology... but what use are these
descriptions? All anyone can say is, "yes, that's what it's like to
attain a militant subjectivity". But it seems to me that the important
questions are how to engender that kind of subjectivity. What
practical steps can be taken? Again, that's what I appreciate in Nick
Srnicek's approach, the way that he instrumentalists actornetwork
theory for leftist purposes. These questions are key: what are the
actors in any particular network? How can these actors be affected?
How can dominant networks be decomposed and new networks installed?
The focus on this style of thinking in Prince Of Networks meant that,
from my point of view, the book was buzzing with political potentials
in a way that so much 'political philosophy' is not all the more so
because it wasn't explicitly political. Graham raises some interesting
questions in respect of Capitalist Realism: Hes definitely right in
some way, though I guess my view on it is a bit more complicated. For
one thing, Mark is writing from a British context, and my sense is
that its far worse in the UK. Not only does everyone in British
academia seem to be strangled by evaluative paperwork, but the British
system is of course much more centralized when it comes to funding.
There is obviously no such thing as a national research assessment for
American universities. We simply have far too many institutions
thousands of them, and they are of too many differing levels of
faculty expectations. There is a broad mix of public, private,
religious, and even expatriate American universities. And of course
even our public universities are organized on the state rather than
national level. So, in the American context there is not the periodic
nationwide Angst found in Britain, in which careers might instantly
vaporise as the result of someones outside assessment. Even the
question of who will be the evaluators this time? seems to cause
ulcers in the UK, and understandably so. For another thing, Im one of
those who actually likes to write annual reports, progress reports,
grant proposals, etc. They do me a world of good, and neither are they
entirely extraacademic I usually gain much clarity about my own
projects from these exercises. In fact, my big complaint is that no
one seems to read the damn things! Never once have my Department
Chairs given me written feedback on an Annual Report, even though they
are required to do so by University policy.A merry Christmas to all
readers, especially to the trolls and grey vampires, who need the good
cheer more than most... Some recommendations and links: 1. Two
sections from the breathtaking climax of Jameson's valence Of The
Dialectic a work that is by turns frustrating, dense and opaque,
elusive and mistlike, exhausting, tragic, moving, galvanising,
inspiring a genuinely monumental achievement: And the theorypoetry of
the very last paragraph which, to say the least, has a bearing on
capitalist realism: 2. "Everything is impossible now, including the
socalled status quo." Interview with me by Matt Fuller on the Mute
site. 3. Me on Ellis Sharp's highly recommended Dead Iraqis:Sharp's
stories work best when there is a logic not a traditional narrative
logic, but a logic of association and correspondence motivating his
juxtapositions. This is emphatically the case in Sharp's masterly 1992
story "The Hay Wain", in which the serenity of Constable's supposedly
timeless painting is violently disrupted by proletarian rebellion. In
"The Hay Wain", English culture and history become a repeating
labyrinth where the rebels are always on the run from the forces of
power and privilege. Fleeing Peterloo, Jack frame eventually stumbles
into the Suffolk scene Constable is painting; meanwhile, in 1990, a
Poll Tax rioters takes refuge in the National Gallery and "notices
what he has never noticed before on biscuit tins or calendars, or
plastic trays on the walls of his aunt's flat in Bradford, those tiny
figures bending in the field beyond." Sharp replaces the dominant
pastoral image of the English countryside, not with a deflated
quotidian realism, but with a different kind of lyricism, one coloured
by revolt: fields and ditches become hiding places or battlegrounds;
landscapes that on the surface seem tranquil still reverberate with
the avenged spectral rage of murdered working class martyrs. It is not
the sunlit English afternoon that is "timeless", but the ability of
the agents of reaction to escape justice. When the Poll tax rioters is
clubbed by police and his blood starts to stain Constable's emblem of
English nationhood, we're uncomfortably reminded of more recent
episodes. "He was resisting arrest, right? Right mates? (Right,
Sarge.) ... We used minimal force, right? ... Don't piss yourself and
we'll see this thing through together, right mates? ... Everyone'll be
on our side, remember that. The commisioner. The Federation. The
papers. And, if it comes to it, the Coroner. Now fucking go and call
for an ambulance."4. German readers check out the latest issue of
Skug, which includes an interview with me, and a review of The
Resistible Demise Of Michael Jackson. On which, see the venerable
maggot Lamb's verdict Posted by mark at 01:29 PM | talkback 3. Me on
Ellis Sharp's highly recommended Dead Iraqis: 4. German readers check
out the latest issue of Skug, which includes an interview with me, and
a review of The Resistible Demise Of Michael Jackson. On which, see
the venerable maggot Lamb's verdict On the face of it, the struggle
over the Christmas number one this year sums up capitalist realism's
stranglehold over culture. From one persective, what we have here is a
simulation of disputation, one Sony BMG act versus another, where
capital wins every way up abetted by a grassroots casebook campaign
that has fed the marketing machine while ostensibly raging against it
(retailers and Sony BMG must be delighted that members of the public
have off their own back come up with a way of marketing ye olde
commodities rebel rock). Yet it's worth also attending to the utopian
dimension at work in both the campaign for the Rage Against The
Machine to be number one and (submerged) in the X Factor phenomenon
itself. The problem is that no response to the X Factor phenomenon is
adequate: whether it be the standard bourgeois "I don't watch it, I
don't have a TV, although I occasionally watch serious documentaries
on the IPlayer", the polo "I watch it to exult in how awful it is", or
some version of apparently ingenuous engagement any response seems
useless. The X Factor has seemed as impregnable as capitalism. In one
of the best pieces he has written for some time, Paul Morley captured
very well the quandary that the X Factor presents. "What's the point
of watching the show," Morley asked, "and feeling that I must be
losing my mind, because I seem to be seeing and hearing bad,
unsavoury, deeply uncomfortable things, while everyone else is
enjoying a cheery, lighthearted party, fun for all the family, a
Saturday night television show that is merely an ingeniously produced
newfangled way of keeping alive certain old-fashioned light
entertainment values?" Complaint seems both churlish and impotent; or
else irrelevant why be concerned about the X Factor at all? Aren't
there more important things than this high-gloss trivia? Yet X
Factor's full spectrum dominance of entertainment media itself makes
it something to be reckoned with. Witness, for instance, none other
than Pete Waterman's description of the X Factor's reach: I sit in a
first-class carriage on the Liverpool to Euston route. You might think
my fellow commuters businessmen, MPs, a clutch of lawyers and a
smattering of City brokers had better things to discuss on the two-
hour journey. Our ailing economy perhaps, or the state of public
transport? Apparently not. I'm very grateful for all the kind words
about Capitalist Realism, especially the extended reviews from Woebot,
Siobhan and Darren. As to Matt's comments about discussion boards in a
way the very existence of the book is its own answer to those queries.
It's almost certainly the case that the book was produced in the same
time slots in which I would previously have loitered in comments boxes
and on discussion boards. Part of the problem with online debate
culture is that it operates on the implicit principle that there is an
infinite time to rehearse and nuance positions. But 'debate' time and
project time are not compatible; one has to withdraw from the former
in order to embark on the latter. If there was any doubt that
capitalist realism has survived the bank crash or that capitalist
realism has nothing to do with 'realism' as such one need only look at
the recent (entirely predictable) display of government cowardice in
the face of the RBS directors. All that hot air about the threat of
"talent" leaving the bank if they are not paid bonuses.... Such
rhetoric played a crucial role in the ludicrous overinflation of
business and managerialism over the last thirty years which served as
an ideological cover for capital accumulation. (That the adjective
"talent" should ever be applied to bankers is condemnation enough of
neo-liberal culture.) Such puffer ought to have been exploded by the
events of the last two years, yet the bankers are being allowed to
persist in their fantasies, which are now being sustained at
taxpayers' expense. The fantasy that they were "talented" was already
exorbitant during the boom now, when they are exposed as not even
competent by any standards that would apply to mere mortals, it is a
sick joke. It is like one of those P K Dick stories in which a
terrible catastrophe has happened, but a small elite exist in a
simulated world, unaware that it has even occurred. But outside the
protected pod, workers face ever harsher conditions in the name of the
very 'realism' from which the financiers and managerialist are
mysteriously exempt. As ZoneStyxTravelcard pointed out via twitter,
the accounts by the pseudonymous postal worker Roy Mayall of the
managerialism tyrannising Royal Mail could have come directly from the
pages of Capitalist Realism. See, for example, his lb diary, an
essential account of what is really at stake in the recent postal
strikes, as well as his recent blow entry. "The market," he writes in
that blow post, "is essentially a ploy by which one group of peoples
interests are imposed on the rest of us. The postal trade is at the
front line of a battle between peoples needs and the demands of
corporations to make ever increasing profits." It's right to put
inverted commas around 'market' here, because, as is well known,
supposed 'marketization' has typically functioned as a cover for the
super-rich to increase their wealth and for managerialist to impose
business ontology on services which previously had other imperatives
beyond mere profit. But there are all sorts of unexplored political
potentials in the Braudel/DG/DeLanda conception of capitalism as an
antimarket. The AntiOedipus point about 'going further in the direct
of marketization' is rather hastily dismissed as crytoneoliberal
accelerationism. For instance, it is possible to frame much of the
very interesting discussion about the possibility of a proletarian
university in terms of the question of marketization. At the moment,
teachers, lecturers and other public servants suffer from asymmetric
marketization. We continue to operate as workers in the old Fordist
way, whereas students are now 'consumers' and 'clients'. But there are
surely many ways in which a more direct market relation between
students and teachers bypassing and obsolescent the managerialist
bureaucratic machines which soak up money, energy and other resources
would be much preferable to this worstofallworlds scenario. Consider
the situation IT's correspondent Dave describes "People could pay a
small fee depending on the cost of the space etc. People on benefits
come for free. Those with jobs pay in full. Students get concessions.
Lecturers get paid something." This is a kind of market, one that
would be far more sensitive and supple not to mention egalitarian than
the simulated market imposed on education by managerialists. What if
teachers and lecturers operated more like doctors and lawyers, with
management reduced to sorting out premises and facilities? At a time
when the conventional university sector is increasingly undermining
its own status, it is worth thinking quite seriously and
experimentally in these apparently utopian directions. Instead of
working class students getting into debt to take courses that
overworked and underpaid lecturers don't want to teach them, why not
develop another sort of institution altogether? Why not develop an
alternative system of accreditation that could compete with the
university system? One reason that the university occupations are a
positive development is that they have the potential to themselves
instantiate this new kind of institution. Here we have an example of
what Peter Hallward calls the "practical sufficiency" of political
will it isn't a matter of petitioning an Other, but of demonstrating
the irrelevance of the Other. Here is what universities would look
like without managerialsts: much better places. Rather than a protest
whose demands could never be met, the occupations start with a set of
very determinate demands reduce the fees which certainly could be met.
But the pursuit of achievable demands engenders practical collectivity
which is no longer satisfied with these specific demands, and which by
its very existence is already pointing beyond them. Thinking in these
ways can contribute to solving the problem that Roy Mayall's blow post
seeks to address the lure of nostalgia; or, rather, the accusation
that any opposition to managerialism is a hankering for the past.
Robert McCrum's review of Mayall's book is not, however, some perverse
misinterpretation; it is rather a symptom of capitalist realism, which
has successfully imposed that opposition. The postal workers lost
ground when they allowed the strike to be narrativized as being
"against modernization". What is needed, rather, is workers to reclaim
modernization for themselves, because, as Darren comments, "nostalgic
melancholy" and "bitter condemnatory memories" are of no political
use. We have to write for "the people to come, for an indeterminate
future" because "it is only by doing so that one can ever begin to
truly alter the present." Just a brief word in response to Anwyn's two
bracing attacks on Nick Cave. I agree absolutely with alwyn that "From
Her To Eternity" was Cave's solo masterpiece. One of the great values
of those early Bad Seeds songs, and those of the Birthday Party, was
the way that they pathologist masculinity. Masculinity was no longer
some invisible normativity, but came into view as something diseased,
grisly. As I've often remarked, if women want to know what it is like
to be inside the body of and brain of an adolescent male, they can do
no better than listen to these songs. This is crucially not just about
(lyrical) content but also form the lurching funhousecumtorture
chamber topographies of the music capturing the chaos of a seething
reptile brain stewed in hormones and programmed by pornoscopic junk,
the whole racket kept from devolving into the totally inchoate by the
dumb implacability of drive, impersonated in the BP and the Bad Seeds
by Pew and Adamson's bass. All of this reaches a point of acute focus
on "From Her To Eternity". This desire to possess her is a wound....
That's forensically precise: it's not her that's causing the pain, but
the desire to have her... Desire emerges here as a miserable,
humiliating pressure, a mocking throb as unrelenting and unforgiving
as migraine; a dulling intoxicants that overwhelms sense, as the
testosterone tension of the bass builds, builds, but never releases,
only loops round in interminable purgatorial circuits, while Bargeld's
guitar, tuned and rewired to sound like some scouring machine, screams
for some kind of release, even if that means (self)destruction. Desire
is a cruel mistress, but Cave's character is nothing if not a
masochist who wants to remain wracked, wrecked and wounded forever
..... I hear her crying too, but that's no basis for any sort of
rapport. All Cave and "the girl" share is unhappiness, but they must
endure it separately, since neither one is in the position to salve
the other's pain. The space the song projects the woman in the room
above him, he "shinning up" and down the drainpipe to defile her empty
apartment is an almost too perfect psychoanalytic geography. There is
no sexual relationship, only an pianistic shuttling out of her
nightmare and back into mine: she a concoction of fantastic art-
objects ("she's wearing those blue stockings I bet!") for him; he (as
alwyn says), not even an nonentity for her. The interesting question
is what role fantasy plays in Cave's lustmord. Are the characters to
be understood as fantasist who resolve the deadlocks of desire by
fantasising the killing of their object of desire? (In this case, they
would be like the Martin Scorsese character in the back of Travis's
cab in Taxi Driver, the cuckold who enjoys his abasement while
simultaneously fantasising overcoming it with a genocidal act of
violence: "have you seen what a 44 Magnum can do to a pussy?") Or are
they to be thought of as actually having carried out the fantasy ...
which immediately becomes a hell once it is acted out while also not
ceasing to be a fantasy? Cave's abjection was most powerful not when
he took on the role of high Romantic Outsider or a swaggering
Staggerlee, but when he came out as a pathetic fantasist, the
anticodon figure of fun (this persona, and Cave's whimpers and
gibberings, owing a great deal to Pere Ubu's David Thomas; I'm tempted
to venture the hypothesis that Cave's music weakens to the degree that
the Thomas influence is exoarcised.) Listen I know it must sound
absurd... Ridicule and the ridiculous stalk Cave's characters. Take
"Six Inch Gold Blade", whose first few moments sound like the
rehearsal for a fantasy a fantasy, furthermore, that consists in the
recounting of the killing, which itself may well be nothing more than
a fantasy. What's the point in killing a woman unless you have a
(male) Other to brag and confess to? "I stuck a six inch gold glade in
the head of a girl.... No laughter, no laughter". Who is this
(imploring and desperate) "no laughter" directed to? The woman who has
"betrayed" him? (I use quotation marks here, because it's not clear
that there is any betrayal, that the "pretty redhead" was ever his in
anything other than fantasy.) Or is it aimed at us, the listeners, the
big Other who won't accept his tall stories as anything other than
fantasy? Does it mean "no laughter" as in "don't laugh" or "no
laughter" as in "that will stop her/ them laughing"? Such questions
remain fascinating and disturbing while the BP and The Bad Seeds paint
lurid sonic pictures of a male mind damaged and deranged by desire. At
this point it's not possible to universalise or naturalise the
pyschopathologies; but with the 'mature' turn to 'proper' music,
things change rather. Cave's career trajectory which gradually
interested me less and less, to the point where I became indifferent
and then vaguely hostile to him is summed up by Mark E Smith's aghast
vision of an alternative future in which The Fall's songs are made
radiofriendly. "They'd changed it with a grand piano and turned it
into a love song. How they did it I don't know." The class dimension
that alwyn points to the snobbish self-loathing becomes important
here, because, as Cave moves from being bomemianaddict Junkyard king
to middlebrook fixture, the attainment of a certain kind of
respectability is in danger of making the misogyny respectable too.
(Note: sadly, I couldn't find either a version "From Her To Eternity"
by the original and best Bad Sees lineup or a live version of "Six
Inch Gold Blade", so you'll have to make do with "I Put A Spell On
You" and "She's Hit".)Thanks to Alberto Toscano, Ben boys and Evan
Calder Williams for making today's panel on Apocalypse Marxism at the
Historical Materialism conference such a success. Parts of the text I
used today have appeared here before, but I have pasted below the new
bits, the product of some just-in-time theoretical production this
morning. The standard tactic of capitalist realism in relation to
ecoapocalypse is to work with the stupid ingenuity of the Symbolic.
Here we might think of Lacans famous example of Holbeins Ambassadors.
Capitalist realism keeps attention on the ephemeral plenitude of
wealth and social status, containing the nullity of ecological
catastrophe as an anamorphic blot at the edge of vision. It has the
advantage that such an operation is already routinely at the level of
individual psychology in respect of death, whose repression no doubt
one of the falsities that, according to Nietzsche, is necessary for
life. So one tactic is to stop imagining ecocatastrophe and Realise it
which is not to say bring it about, but to act as if it has already
happened. This is the intriguing suggestion from jean-pierre duppy
which cizek takes up, most recently in First As Tragedy, Then As
Farce. The only way to prevent the catastrophe, cizek and duppy
suggest, is to project ourselves into the postapocalyptic situation
and think what we would have done to have avoided it. In other words,
we must act as if what is in fact the case  the inevitability of
catastrophe  is the case. The simulation, the asif, is necessary in
part because the Real, here as elsewhere, cannon be confronted
directly, and can only emerge in the form of a fiction. The shift to
the question of what would we have done has the benefit of
circumventing the capitalist realist/ postmodernist foreclosure of the
old modernistLeninist question, What is to be done. An anti-capitalism
need not be imagined any more than the end of the world has to be: it
is Realized in the encounter with the fictionalvirtualReal of
inevitable apocalypse. Here we can turn to a rather less august
example of fictional apocalypse than either Children Of Men or Atwoods
novels  the much derided Terminator: Salvation. The interest of this
latest Terminator film was the reversal of perspective  we are not now
in the preapocalyptic near future, but in the ruins postapocalyptic
war, after Judgement Day, in which skye has achieved sentience and the
Terminators stalk the remains of human resistance. The films power
derives from of its rendering of Earth as a zone fully militarized and
desolate by cybernetic war: an artificial inferno built out of
dysphoric Black Metal negative eschatology, cargoculted Christology
and numerous other dystopias reprocessed as artificial nightmare.
Here, CGI finally codes for CyberGothic Alongside Blade Runner and
Gibsons Neuromancer, the Terminator films provided some of the
fictional resources from which Nick Land constructed his extraordinary
fictiontheory texts of the 90s. Lyotards Libidinal Economy + Deleuze
and Guattaris Capitalism and Schizophrenia remixed to remove all
traces of anti-capitalism and spliced with the inorganic velocities
and psychedelic cybertopologies of Jungle. accelerationist as
inorganic antiinhumanism: unsheathed Capital as implacable, rapacious
death drive; Capital with its mask of humanity torn off, machines not
as reified instrumental reason, but as a non-instrumental nonreason,
the exorbitant antiteleology of Capitals purposiveness without final
purpose deterraforming the planet into a technoBochsian scorched earth
unfit for human habitation. Capital as Real = Death, with the
Terminator machine deaths head as the technological upgrade of
Holbeins anamorphic skull artificial intelligence as artificial death
not now reduced to a cuttlefish smear blotting the Symbolic, but
looming to the fore in a landscape in which not only human beings but
the Symbolic itself is close to total extinction, as signifying data
transfer obsolescent . The imaginaryReal of Capital as the automatic
autocracy of dead labour, dead production performed by that which
never lived, its products the agents of death, for which there is no
possible consumer. And, indeed, noone buys or sells much in
Terminator: Salvation, just as Lands vision of Capital as the triumph
of death would seem to anticipate an eventual future in which there
are no humans left to exploit. Humans are only an impediment to the
full Realization of Capital as machinicfecund death, and here we are
as it were confronting Capitals own fantasy about itself  that it
would be possible to remove all the fetters and achieve a kind of
total productive capacity, if only it werent for pesky humans. Here,
we confront one of the ambiguities of accelarationism: by the sheer
totality of its negativity, the triumph of death changes signs and
becomes a pure positivity. Another way in which Lands work and the
Terminator fictional system converge  and here we return to duppy and
Zizeks postapocalypse Now temporality, but seen from a very different
perspective is on the question of timebending. If Capital=A Death is
the anti-climactic terminal of human history, it is only because the
inhuman future was capable of acting on the past to potentiate its own
coming. As Land puts in Meltdown: This is the circuit in which anti-
capitalism must intervene. The war must be fought from and on the
desert of the virtualReal apocalypse. One tactic could be to explode
the fantasy of unsheathed productive capacities. This involves taking
the anti of anti-capitalism seriously, as itself the sufficient
condition for the emergence of a new political-economic organisation.
The embrace of the anti would become a return of a negativity which
late capitalisms compulsory positivity is compelled to suppress at
many levels. What this must also be about is a struggle over libido
Lands texts are soaked in all the inorganic libido that Atwoods
novels, for instance, can only oppose with pious organicisim. An
antiorganic anti-capitalism  what might that look like? An example of
how severe disagreement does not have to be trolling or grey
vampirism: philosophy Sans Oeuvre's response to my and others'
exasperation in respect of the g2 protests. Instead of the troll or
vampire's quisling retreat from taking a position, PSO very clearly
sets out are a set of sincerities and refutable claims. I will respond
to the post in the same spirit it was written with a measure of
knockabout sarcasm, but with also a comradely sense that this is not
one more empty Web 2.0 'debate'. It is a discussion that urgently
needs to happen. The effective opposition to the interpassivity of
communicative capitalism is not some totalitarian authoritarianism,
but purposive action. Discussion about the form that this purposive
action should take is quite different from a 'debate' in which
discussion is supposed to have value for its own sake and of course
that discussion is far better had with those who want to do things
rather than engage in academic critique. Nevertheless, I'm a little at
a loss as to how PSO or his interloctuor, Paul Reed, answer my
problems with the 'G20 Meltdown' since the substantive claims in
favour of the protest seem to be unfalsifiable articles of faith: it
felt good to be there, any 'activism' is a prior better than theory,
we can't yet know what the effects of the protest will be (so if, as
seems to be the case, the protests had no political effects
whatsoever, don't worry, because it is too soon to tell and it always
will be, presumably...) Then there is the baffling claim that the
protests were a success because they cost a lot of money. "The g2
Meltdown was the most expensive protest in British history, which is a
good indication of its real potential: the British government could
not afford to have another one like it." I'm not sure what this means
that government finances would collapse if another protest took place?
Even if that improbable contingency were to come about, why would that
be a good thing? Surely what is more likely is that the government
will always find money for policing and it will find it by taking it
from other areas of public spending. I'm sure we can all think of
better and more creative uses of public money than it being squandered
on police overtime. If the point was to waste as much money as
possible and to disrupt people going to work, then it's little
surprise that despite widespread anger about bankers, despite
Tomlinson's death that the media response was not an endorsement of
the 'Meltdown', or that the protests failed to break down what Alex
Williams has called 'negative solidarity' ('I have to work hard for
poor wages, why are they complaining?'). The idea that the protests
would have succeeded if it weren't for the pesky media is one of the
strangest claims in the PSO post surely media hostility and
circumspection should have been expected and planned for? Then there
is the tired, selfaggrandising opposition between 'activists' and
'theorists' (an opposition being wielded here, as it so often is, by
theorists themselves). If Nick, Alex, Reid and myself issued our
writings on handbills in the street and organised protests that had no
efficacy would we be suddenly elevated into the ranks of the Holy
Activists? In point of fact, the only reason that I'm not an
'activist' is that I got 'made redundant' for being one much of
Capitalist Realism comes from my experiences as a Union member and
organiser, which, amongst other things, led me to conclude that many
forms of activism just haven't caught up with postFordism. I'm the
last person to think that politics requires vindication from
philosophy, or that 'workers' need to be organised 'from above'. What
I do think is that 'workers' whatever that word means now do need to
be organised, and that there must be new thought about what form that
organisation might take. (Presumably, by the way, the g2 protests were
in fact organised and coordinated: the rhetoric of the PSO post would
have us believe that they were some direct, spontaneous outflow of the
Will of the People and belief in such spontaneity is itself a
theoretical commitment, one of many egregious effects of certain post
tendencies in continental philosophy). Thought about organisation not
'political theory' or 'political philosophy' as some empty academic
exercise is what I've been calling for. It' is a certain kind of
'action' which is the refuge of the beautiful soul now especially the
'acting' which avoids engagement with institutions or the structure of
work. Well, there is a clear point, if the strategy is a waste of
resources, or is counterproductive. Besides, of course, I and everyone
else in the 'consensus' happen to have plenty of ideas about new
political strategies. As for the claim that "The folkpsychological
reading of the protest is a facile interpretation of a complex event
and grossly patronising to those that took part." I would reverse
this: the folkpolitical form of the protest is a facile response to a
complex phenomenon (capitalism). I've of course no doubt that many of
the protestors have high sophisticated understandings of capitalism,
but that sophistication is not and cannon be reflected in the
carnival/ protest model of political action. The problem is that there
is a slide between the logic of protest and the logic of carnival: if
there are no determinate demands, then that is because the point
becomes a carnivalesque experience of street clamour. At the same
time, the carnival is claimed to be more than a matter of
'feelgoodfeelbad' affect because of its protest dimension. Protests
certainly can work in particular circumstances. But a protest against
capitalism seems designed to fail. Acting as if that is an agent who
can meet the ill-defined demands cannon but be a matter of bad faith.
Protests are petitions: who are what was this petition aimed at, and
who or what could have met its demands? Let's imagine that all of the
leaders at the g2 summit agreed to meet the protestors' demands what
would that have involved? My suspicion is that there was any real
belief on anyone's part that the protests could have worked, nor was
there any clear sense of what working would even have meant this isn't
a left preparing to take power, but one that, in its heart of hearts,
expects protest to follow protest forever, which is why such
carnivalesque protest has been the background noise of capitalist
realism, tuned out with increasing ease by the managerial and
political elites. Beyond this, expectations peter out into fantasy,
where the protests trigger a spontaneous revolt which will
miraculously selforganise into a whole new society. But let's suppose
that everyone in the world spontaneously decides that they don't want
to live in capitalism any more. Even then or rather especially then
the questions of organisation would impose themselves all the more
forcefully. Weight of numbers, and the kind of heterogeneous group
that came together at the g2 Meltdown, can certainly be effective in
labour disputes or occupations where they are deployed against a
particular point, instead of impotently and vaguely thrown at (a
simulacrum of) Capital itself. (And, incidentally, if the point is to
build alliances amongst the 'grassroots anti-capitalist movement', why
the gratuitous attacks on the SWP? Mustn't any "political theory which
aligns itself on the Left" also "seek to draw on their support"?)
There's surely a massive difference between the 'one day out of life'
logic of g2 Meltdown and factory or university occupations. These
latter involve both determinate demands and something more the
possibility of sustainable antagonisms, which can develop in the
institutions where people actually work, as well as the 'practical
sufficiency' of a collective will which demonstrates that it can
organise work or education itself, without the need for the overpaid
managers and executives. One of many things that's haunted me from
Andy Beckett's When The Lights Went Out is the account of the Grunwick
dispute. Not so much the familiar account of the struggles in front of
the factory gates, as what the right did to break the strike behind
the scenes the socalled Pony Express operation that they organised to
circumvent the postal blockade: I think this story shows many things:
that the triumph of neoliberalism wasn't some inevitable law of
History or Capital; that it happened not because of wealth alone, but
because wealth was used as a resource to fund organisational
strategies; that such such strategies were often ingenious and
experimental; that the activities themselves buying and licking
thousands of stamps, posting thousands of letters were very far from
being carnivalesque or enjoyable but that performing them produced a
sense of euphoria. (One is tempted to say that the g2 melancholy
carnival was the exact opposite of this: an ostensibly enjoyable party
in the street that ended up as a boring and demoralising kettle,
producing dysphagia in the bad sense, as Alex suggested.) Compare the
hundreds of thousands on the street in the anti-capitalist protests of
the last decade with what those 250 volunteers achieved. By helping to
break the Grunwick strike, they did more than end one particular
labour dispute as with the defeat of the Miners Strike later, the
Grunwick strike-breaking also functioned at the mimetic and Symbolic
level, preparing the way for capitalist realism. Pursuing winnable,
determinate goals engenders a sense that winning is possible, which
further reinforces the sense of conviction necessary for victory: a
hyperstitional circuit. It's this kind of circuit that left activism
needs. There will be some proper content up here soon, I promise...
but this is just a reminder that there will be a reading and
discussion of Capitalist Realism in Brighton tomorrow evening... I
hope to see some of you there... 19:30 21:30Open HouseSpringfield
RoadBrighton Call for Participation:"Bigger than Words, Wider than
Pictures": Noise, Affect, PoliticsUniversity of Salford and Islington
Mill, July 13 2010Organising Committee: Dr Michael Goddard, Dr
Benjamin holligan and Professor David Sanjek"If there are people that
are dumb enough to use Metallica to interrogate prisoners, you're
forgetting about all the music that's to the left of us. I can name 30
Norwegian death metal bands that would make Metallica sound like Simon
and Garfunkel." Lars Ulrich "... this music can put a human being in a
trance like state and deprive it of the sneaking feeling of existing,
'cos music is bigger than words and wider than pictures... if the
stars had a sound it would sound like this." Mogwai, "Yes! I Am a Long
Way from Home"Noise Annoys. Is it not a banal fact of modern, urban
existence that one person's preferred sonic environment is another's
irritating, unwelcome noise whether in the highrise apartment, on
public transport or the street, or almost anywhere else? The
contingent soundscape of jackhammers and pneumatic drills, mobile
phone chatter, car sirens and alarms, sound leakage from nightclubs
and bars and moving into the suburbs lawnmowers and amateur renovation
projects, neighbouring kids and dogs, represents a nearconstant aural
assault. As a pollutant, noise can legally attain noxious levels; it
is both potentially biologically harmful and psychologically
detrimental.But what exactly is noise and what conditions these
relative thresholds in which sound crosses over into noise? Or are
these more organised and polite sonic phenomena merely varieties of
noise that have been tamed and civilised, and yet still contain
kernels of the chaotic, anomalous disturbance of primordial noise? As
a radical free agent, how is noise channelled, neutralised or enhanced
in emergent cityscapes? As a consumable, how is noise or lack of noise
commodified?Such questions are particularly applicable to contemporary
forms of music which, based as they are on a variety of noisemaking
technical machines, necessarily exist in the interface between
chaotic, unpredictable noise and the organised and blended sounds of
music and speech. Does modern noise seek to lead us to new,
postsecular escapes (as with psychedelia and shoegazer), or defy the
lulling noisescapes of processed background muzak with punitive blasts
of disorientating, disorderly noise? And why the cult of noise in term
of both volume and dissonance in which low cultural practices (metal,
moshing) meet those of the avant-garde (atonalism,
transcendentalism)?This conference seeks to address the contemporary
phenomenon of noise in all its dimensions: cultural, political,
territorial, philosophical, physiological, subversive and military,
and as anomalous to sound, speech, musicality and information.
Possible topics include but are not limited to: * Psychedelic and
NeoPsychedelic Musics* Punk and post-punk Musics* Experimental Musics
from AvantClassical to Digital Noise / Raw Data* Industrial Musics and
Cultures* Krautrock and German Noise* Shoegazer, gaze and PostRock*
Noise as Cultural Anomaly* Noise, Chaos and Order* Noise and
architectural planning* Noise and digital compression* Noise Scenes
from No Wave to JapanNoise* Noise and electronic music pioneers (Delia
Derbyshire, Varse, Stockhausen)* Noise and Territory* Sonic Warfare*
Noise and Urban Environments / "Noise pollution"* Noise and
Subjectivation* Sonic Ecologies* "White Noise"* Noise and Political
Subversion* Noise and hearing impairment / deafness* Psychic / silent
noise* Noise and mixing, particularly in nightclub environments* Noise
in Cinema, Video and Sound Art* Noise, Appropriation and
Recombination* Noise and affective conference will be organised by the
Centre for Communication, Cultural and Media Studies at the University
of Salford in cooperation with Islington Mill, Salford and will take
place from the hard of July and will include both an academic
conference and noise gigs featuring amongst other groups, The
Telescopes and Factory Star and other special guests tbc. Confirmed
keynote speakers include rock historian Clinton Heylin, author of From
the Velvets to the Voidoids and numerous other works on (post)punk and
popular music, Stephen Lawrie of The Telescopes, and Paul Hegarty,
author of the recent Noise/Music. In addition to conventional papers,
noise, sound and video art proposals are also welcome. To participate
in the conference please send a 400 word abstract and biographical
note to Michael Goddard, m.n.goddard@salford.ac.uk and Benjamin
Halligan, b.halligan@salford.ac.uk by 28 February 2010. Another World
is Necessary: Crisis, Struggle and Political Alternatives 27 29
November 2009Birkbeck College and School of Oriental and African
Studies (SOAS)Thornhaugh Street, London wc1h ox REGISTER NOW at:
http://mercury.soas.ac.uk/hm/conference2009.htm REGISTRATION CLOSES 24
NOVEMBER CONFERENCE PROGRAMME now available
at:http://mercury.soas.ac.uk/hm/conference2009.htm Speakers include:
Gilbert char * Robert britton * Kevin Anderson *Jairus banana * Wendy
Brown * Alex Callinicos * vive chamber * HesterEisenstein * Ben Fine *
Ferruccio bambino * Lindsey German * PeterHallward * John Holloway *
Fredric Jameson * Bob Jessop * DavidMcNally * China neville * Kim
Moody * Leo pitch * Moishe postpone *Sheila Rowbotham * Julian
Stallabrass * Hillel ticking * Kees Van Der pill *Hilary wainwright
Panels include: APOCALYPSE MARXISM * ART AGAINST CAPITALISM *CLASS AND
POLITICS IN THE 'GLOBAL SOUTH' * COGNITIVE MAPPING,TOTALITY AND THE
REALIST TURN * COMMODIFYING HEALTH casein THE UK * CUBAN REVOLUTION
AND CUBAN SOCIETY * DERIVATIVES *DIMENSIONS OF THE FOOD CRISIS *
ECOLOGICAL CRISIS * EMPIREAND IMPERIALISM * ENERGY, WASTE AND
CAPITALISM * FINANCE,THE HOUSING QUESTION AND URBAN POLITICS * GLOBAL
LAW inhuman RIGHTS * GRAMSCI RELOADED * INTERPRETATIONS OF theorists *
LABOUR BEYOND THE FACTORY * LATIN AMERICAN WORKINGCLASSES * LINEAGES
OF NEOLIBERALISM * MARXISM AND POLITICALVIOLENCE * MIGRATION *
PHILOSOPHY AND COMMUNISM IN thearle MARX * POSTNEOLIBERALISM * RACE,
NATION AND ORIENTALISM *RED PLANETS: MARXISM AND SCIENCE FICTION *
REMEMBERINGPETER gown AND CHRIS HARMAN * REVOLUTIONARY
THEORY,AUTONOMIST MARXISM AND THE CRITIQUE OF POLITICAL ECONOMY
*SLAVERY AND CAPITALISM IN THE US SOUTH * STUDENT MOVEMENTSAND YOUTH
REVOLTS * THE CRITIQUE OF RELIGION AND THE critique CAPITALISM *
UTOPIAS, DYSTOPIAS AND SOCIALIST BIOPOLITICS Sunday, 15 November
Calling Out Of Context at the ICA2.00 p.m.Mark Fisher (aka influential
music logger kpunk), considers the passivity of listening and
discusses the possibilities for collective, intimate and fresh ways of
hearing. This event inaugurates the Deep Listening Club, marked by the
playback of Glenn Goulds 1969 work The Latecomers. Thursday, 26
November Reading and discussion of Capitalist Realism19:30 21:30Open
HouseSpringfield RoadBrighton Saturday, 28 November, 2.454.30,
Apocalypse Marxism at Historical Materialism conference Chair: Alberto
ToscanoBenjamin boys Apocalyptic Tones and Accelerating CrisisEvan
Calder Williams Combined and Uneven ApocalypseMark Fisher
PostApocalypse NowTrust me, you don't have to like MJ to enjoy this
book ....if you want serious but highly readable reflections on pop,
politics and celebrity (and their interactions) .... if you long for
the kind of engaged and expansive criticism that you used to find in
the music press of the is and the is ... if you like the music writing
that's emerged from this zone of the blogosphere... then there's
plenty for you here... all this, and a great cover image from Laura
Oldfield Ford, too... The Amazon price is a steal: believe me, it's
worth paying out that for Ian's essay alone.... Capitalist Realism is
also available for reorder on Amazon... Also.... For readers in
Argentina: (Why does one's writing always look better when it's
translated?) Deleuze y la bruner is reviewed here Proving the point:
... only two examples from this excellent post, which everyone should
read... Diane Abbott is also very good on the QT thing... The issue is
why this judgement, quoted in The Guardian's report on responses to
Griffin's appearance on Question Time in Burnley, can appear to make
sense. From the point of view of liberal commonsense, which has been
congratulating itself about its "defeat" of Griffin on Thursday, it
was the BNP leader who was caught up in lies and evasions and exposed
as a hypocrite. Yet Griffin embodies or rather speaks for the logic
that the neo-liberal consensus in Britain replies upon, but cannon
own. It's now clear that racism is the necessary excrescence of
neoliberalism, the obscene supplement that asserts itself in the space
from which politics has been evacuated. At the risk of repeating
familiar arguments, the idea that race or broader, "identity" is the
Real of social antagonism has suited neoliberalism well: because it
naturalists social differences, because it blocks off any possibility
of universality, because it shatters class solidarity. What is evaded
here is the way that racism is not some naturally-occurring tendency
but, necessarily, a displacement of the class antagonisms which the
neo-liberal consensus hello everyone on the QT panel apart from
Griffin has a vested interest in covering up. What's interesting,
though, is that, in making the logic of racialization explicit,
Griffin stirs the spectre of class. The neo-liberal tactic has been to
ignore resentment and aggrievement altogether to maintain that such
feelings are a moral, educational or psychiatric failure of those who
have not accepted metropolitan, "modernising" values ("diversity" on
the one hand, neo-liberal "solutions" on the other). Much of the BNP's
appeal derives from its granting of legitimacy to those feelings of
resentment and aggrievement yes, it says, you're right to feel angry
and betrayed, you're right to feel that your anxieties are being
ignored, you're right to feel that there is something fundamentally
wrong. Here, class emerges because who has done the betraying and the
ignoring if not the metropolitan "elite" which Griffin attacked on
Thursday? But this brief flash of class antagonism is immediately
subsumed by racelogic: the problem is not the class structure itself,
the BNP wants us to believe, but the elite's "pandering to
minorities". Needless to say, this has it the wrong way round the real
problems, to name only a few of the most glaring, are the
precariousness and poorly paid nature of post-fordist work, the
running down of public services, the pathetically low rate of council
house building. Yet the right wing media, not just the BNP (the BNP
merely feeds off the conditions that the press and their stooges in
parliament have created) relentlessly sends the same message: it isn't
the poor provision of services and resources that is the issue, but
the monopolisation of these services and resources by whatever racial
Other is being demolished that week. Given this incessant media
bombardment, given this one narrative, it isn't surprising that some
working class people "experience" the social in this racialized way.
So it's clear that it isn't at the level of 'argument' still less,
'debate' that the BNP can be tackled. It's at the level of narrative
the frame through which the social is experienced and explained that
the battle for the hearts and minds must be fought. The Question Time
thing showed that, at the moment, the political landscape is a
symbiosis posing as an antagonism: a discredited neo-liberal consensus
set against its excremental product, a far right Master narrative.
Only when working class grievances and resentments can be
renarrativised by a new political agent can this frame be broken.
Lenin's refusal to join in the celebrations about Nick Griffin's
shambolic performance on Question Time last night is well founded.
Griffin may have come across as what Peter Serafinowicz called "Adolf
Brent" but bumbling incompetence didn't stop George W Bush being
elected twice (or Jack Straw from serving in government for over a
decade, for that matter). Lenin is right. What you have to think about
is how last night looked to those with sympathies towards the BNP: an
unctuous liberal smug which cast Griffin in the preferred role of the
racist, victim. Griffin's claim that "we are the aboriginals", his
talk of whites as the "real victims of racism" makes plain the
racists' envy of those they hate, based on the conviction that "they"
enjoy more than "we" do. The fact that Griffin's 'arguments' don't
stand up to rational scrutiny means nothing. Since when has racism
relied on rational argument? For all his squirming and dissimulation,
Griffin at least looked as if he had a libidinal honesty the fact that
there was an evident obscene underside to his discourse last night
will only confirm in his sympathisers' mind the impression that he was
prevented from telling the 'truth'. Meanwhile, Straw's window-dressing
evocation of multicultural values looked disingenuous because it
entailed no political cost: when it comes to immigration policy, Straw
will do what he always does, and dance to the tune called by the right
wing press. The same press that has successfully propagated the
doublethink whereby immigration control "cannot be discussed" while it
endlessly discusses it, concealing the reality that what cannon be
countenanced in mainstream political discourse is any positive
narrative about immigration, and the fact that the whole focus on
immigration is a massive smokescreen, a displacement from the real
issues of resource distribution and class a displacement that New
Labour has been more than happy to go along with. So we have yet
another odious "debate" on immigration in which all of the
parliamentarians compete to demonstrate how "tough" they are on it...
Modernism After Postmodernism: Is there a future beyond capitalist
realism? November with 2009 2:00pm 5:00pmUEL Docklands Campus Room
EB.3.19 (third floor, main building, turn left upon entering the main
square after leaving Cyprus DLR. Cyprus dr is literally situated at
the campus) Free, All welcome Has the idea of postmodernism left any
legacy but that of a generalised capitulation to the demands of
liberal capitalism? What can contemporary urbanism learn from the era
of unabashed militant modernism? Is the most controversial living
philosopher, Alain Badiou, with his radical conceptualisation of
Truth, Event and Subject, to be understood as advocating a
neomodernist programme, or something quite different? Can there be any
progressive radicalism that does not ultimately embrace the
revolutionising logic of modernism? Speakers: Mark FisherCapitalist
Realism, or the political-economic Logic Of PostmodernismMark Fisher
teaches at UEL, the City Lit and Goldsmiths and is the author of
Capitalist Realism (Zer0, 2009) Nina powers radio a Modernist?Nina
Power is a Senior Lecturer in Philosophy at Roehampton University and
the author of one-dimensional Woman (Zer0), 2009) Owen HatherleyThey
Are Rebuilding The City, Always: Regeneration now and its postwar
predecessorsOwen Hatherley is a freelance writer, a researcher at
Birkbeck and author of Militant Modernism (Zer0 2009) Jeremy
GilbertNew Times Again: Legacies of Left PostmodernismJeremy Gilbert
teaches at fuel and is the author of anti-capitalism and Culture (Berg
2008) Reading Jodi Dean's excellent book on democracy and
communicative capitalism, I was put in mind of Momus's recent remarks
about logging (as cited by Simon here). "Sure," modus wrote, "Click
Opera has been a sort of karate course, and its comment facility has
taught me to be more dialectical and above all the skill set of
prolepsis, of anticipating reader objections. But is a more moderate,
accessible and dialectical me really what the world needs? Doesn't the
world need an immoderate, outrageous and concentrated me, just laying
out things that only I could think, no matter how wrong they may be?"
For me, the answer is clear I certainly don't want writers who
"respond to criticisms", who patiently deal with "feedback", no matter
how hostile and uncomprehending. I want writers who have the courage
to pursue their own lines. What's interesting, I suppose, is the
libidinal impulses at work in those who don't want that who would
rather have a writer spending their time on discussion boards and in
comments boxes defending themselves, dancing their position into
innocuous irrelevance, or effectively abandoning it altogether in the
name of some vacuous commitment to "debate". Nothing illustrates the
debilitating fit between "democracy" and "communicative capitalism"
that Jodi analyses so well than this demand. Jodi's claim is that
there is a necessary, not merely contingent, connection between the
communicative landscape of Web 2.0 and the newton and neo-liberal
right. (Note how grey vampires and trolls will automatically appeal to
the democratic "right to be heard" the moment they feel that attention
will be snatched away from; note how they will always describe those
who are no longer paying them attention as totalitarians.) Jodi
identifies an asymmetry in the right and left approaches to democracy
in the era of web 2.0: the right uses democratic openness to advance
clear, divisive positions; the left appeals to the openness first, so
that it becomes identified with openness as such rather than a set of
determinate policies. Incidentally, what I liked about Nick's
presentation at Militant Dysphoria, which met with a certain amount of
British can'tdoism, a good introduction to the UK for Nick I guess,
was the crispness and clarity of its tactical suggestions there's a
punish demystification at work here, as well as the echoes of
management consultancy that Dominic heard: here's how things have
changed, now let's change things ourselves. Instead of skulking in the
margins, celebrating "disruption", "diversity" and the instability of
meaning (poststructuralist habits that the left finds it hard to
kick), what the left needs now is the confidence and courage to plan,
to impose a new orthodoxy in the way that the right did. I'm
sympathetic to the argument that one can't completely transpose the
methods that capital and neoliberalism used onto leftist struggle,
because capital had resources and vested interests on its side which
are not at the disposal of the left now. But one can overstate this:
ultimately, Nick Land's view that capital is an "artificial
intelligent space that must assemble itself entirely from its enemys
resources" is closer to the mark than the view that capital had
everything stacked in its favour from the start. Capitalism's agents
were a revolutionary class which had to dismantle feudalism, undermine
the authority of the Church, and challenge practically every vested
interest before they could succeed. Two important things that come out
of reading Andy Beckett's book on the is are (1) how much was against
neoliberalism then and (2) how hard the neo-liberal had to plan and
work in order to get their vision realised (with the Grunwick strike-
breaking campaign a foretaste of everything that would be thrown at
the miners). The left should leave behind "spontaneity" along with all
the other relics of 68, which weigh so heavily on the brains of would-
be militants. The alternative is not Stalinism, even if it might
involve elements of conspiratorialism (how could any effective
political strategy not involve some element of this?); and it will
certainly entail a disciplined withdrawal from particular
communicative circuits. What is certain is that it is imperative to
escape the binaries that "democratic" communicative capitalism has
imposed on our thinking. A belated thanks to everyone who attended
last week's Militant dysphagia event at Goldsmiths. And special thanks
to Dominic, Nathan, Nina, Nick, James and Alex whose thoughtful
presentations did so much to stimulate the very lively discussion and
to demonstrate the dark fecundity of the ideas in Cold World There's
an special urgency and poignancy about the concept of militant
dysphagia just now, when dejection is so widespread amongst the young.
The regime of antidepressants, CBT and relentlessly upbeat pop culture
enforce a compulsory positivity which treats the negative only as
failure and pathology. Dejection is not an extreme state so much as a
generational condition, as invisible as it is ubiquitous, sometimes
treated as a medicalised disorder, sometimes condemned as a
politicised apathy, often not acknowledged at all, but normalised as
an existential horizon of lowered expectations and minimal hope. If,
from the perspective of a vitalis commonsense, militancy and dysphagia
is an impossible collocation, then the dejected young (and among them,
all those who aestheticism their dysphoria, such as Goths and the
devotees of Black Metal), must simply be abandoned as depoliticised,
unpolitical or at best prepolitical. But as Dominic put it in his own
comments box recently, "Dysphoria is 'militant' when it refuses to be
framed as a personal mishap, and instead poses itself as a question
and a challenge to the society in which it occurs." And an important
question Dominic's book poses is how to make politics answerable to
the Cold World how might the emotional hyperliteracy of communicative
capitalism be subordinated to the affective dyslexia of the radical
dejected? What can politics learn from the perspective of the "abyss
that laughs at creation"? That quote from Joy Division's "Heart And
Soul" with Curtis sounding his most Black metallic touches on one of
the running discussions at the event: Morrissey versus Ian Curtis. It
seems to me clear that Curtis was a denizen of the Cold World in the
way that morrissey is not, and I think it is worth thinking through
why this is the case. The Cold World involves terror, and Joy Division
are terrifying which is not a word one would ever associate with
Morrissey, no matter how glum the song. It isn't only Morrissey's
dampness which disqualifies him, though I don't think the notion of
camp dysphagia makes much sense there can be a pathos to camp, to be
sure, but it never approaches the frozen certainty of depression. Camp
centres on play-acting and distantiation (that is why it is the form
of postmodern subjectivity par excellence: I don't believe but
nevertheless I play along). Dysphoria, meanwhile, involves both a
disdain for play-acting and an inability to achieve any distance,
particularly in relation to oneself. Or perhaps it would be better to
say that the distance between the dejected subject and the rituals of
the symbolic order is so total that it is no longer liveable. The
depressive experiences himself as walled off from the lifeworld, so
that his own frozen inner life or inner death overwhelms everything;
at the same time, he experiences himself as evacuated, totally
denuded, a shell: there is nothing except the inside, but the inside
is empty. For the depressive, the habits of the former lifeworld now
seem to be, precisely, a mode of playacting, a series of pantomime
gestures ("a circus complete with all fools"), which they are both no
longer capable of performing and which they no longer wish to perform
there's no point, everything is a sham. Where Morrissey still appeals
to an Other who could make things right, who could restore the half a
person to wholeness ("Please, Please Let Me Get What I Want"), Curtis
is convinced that things could never be improved. When I wrote about
Joy Division before, I opposed Curtis's "neurosis" to Mark E Smith's
"psychosis" but now it strikes me that it is better to think of Curtis
as a melancholic who can be contrasted to Morrissey's neurotic. For
adrian Leader, the difference between the melancholic and the neurotic
is that the melancholic is certain that they are worthless, whereas
the neurotic is unsure, always seeking to resolve their status.
"Neurotic symptoms are always a way of asking a question ... In
melancholia, one the contrary, the selfreproaches are less a way of
asking a question than a kind of solution. The subject is guilty. They
have been condemned." Morrissey may sometimes appear to be sure that
he is "the most inept that ever stepped" but, for all their ostensibly
categorical quality, such declarations still seem to be questions
rather than definitive statements: am I the most inept? am I
unloveable? However resigned to hopelessness Morrissey tries to be, he
is aways tormented and tantalised by the prospect that there could be
some One who can save him. What is remarkable about Joy Division is
the way they are bereft of two of the mainstays of most other rock and
pop: longing and supplication. On the occasions that the 'you',
usually so ubiquitous in pop music, features in Curtis's songs it is
neither as as an Other held responsible for his condition nor deemed
capable of ameliorating it. No amelioration is possible, that's the
point and that's why depression is not mere sadness, not a "mood" that
will lift, but an ontological conviction. (Perhaps it is only on
"Disorder" "I've been waiting for a guide to come and take me by the
hand" that there is any hint of a redeeming Other, but even here the
hope, such as it is, seems faint, or perhaps already abandoned: Like a
fool, I've been waiting.... but the redeemer will never come.
Depression is a "world", not only because it colours all experience or
rather removes all colour, reducing everything to the stark black and
white of the Unknown Pleasures cover (black and white thinking is a
hallmark of the depressive condition) but also because it lacks any
limits. Depression is experienced not as depression, as some "illness"
susceptible to treatment, but as the Truth. Given this, noone else
could help the depressive; or at least, that is how it looks from the
Cold World. Others are impotent, puppets of a pitiless fatality that
makes agency an illusion (an illusion to to which they, insofar as
they are not themselves depressed, are victims): they are either
unreachable ("Candidate"), betrayer ("Means To An End"), or else
themselves betrayed ("Shadowplay"). What makes Joy Division so
Schopenhauerian is the disjunction between Curtis's detachment and the
urgency of the music, its implacable drive standing in for the dumb
instability of the lifeWill, the Beckettian "I must go on" not
experienced by the depressive as some redemptive positivity, but as
the ultimate horror, the lifeWill paradoxically assuming all the
loathsome properties of the undead (whatever you do, you can't
extinguish it, it keeps coming back). Perhaps it is this disjunction
which goes to explain the strong correlation between depression and
aesthetics. Identified with the dead yet still amongst the living, the
melancholic cannon live, but equally cannon achieve either quiescence
or quiet: they must speak about their predicament. As Leader points
out, "A melancholic subject is in two places at once, two different
spaces that cannon be superimposed. But how can this agony be
communicated? One of the features of melancholia over the ages has
been its association with artistic creation and writing. Indeed, in
some periods, discussions of melancholia have emphasized the creative
aspect far more than its depressive elements." One final difference
between Morrissey and Joy Division. Curtis is strangely lacking in the
self-pity which is Morrissey's stock in trade. That's because Curtis's
despair is so total, his fatalism is so complete, that he sees his own
dejection as only one aspect of a cosmic condition. In Cold World,
Dominic invokes the Black Metal distinction between "pure misanthropy"
and "selfpity": "in order to be pure, misanthropy must be purified of
any attachment to the human self that would fall within its remit."
Curtis wasn't misanthropic he seemed to see humans as forlorn
Burroughs marionettes to be "observed with a pitiful eye": for him, as
for Schopenhauer, the problem was existence itself, but his despair
had the impersonality characteristic of BM's antihumanism. So much for
dysphoria, but what of militancy? Here, perhaps, I can introduce a
personal note. I've passed through the Cold World a few times, and I
can say I hope without melodrama that I'm lucky to have survived it.
Yet emergence from the "deserts and wastelands" has never meant a
happy reinsertion back into the cheer and security of the lifeworld. A
spell in the Cold World necessary involves a subjective destitution,
and what then matters is how things are reconstructed once the
permafrost recedes. Both Nick and Nathan highlighted the way in which
an interruption of habit and the habituated was a precondition for
militancy; this was certainly how things worked in my case, in which
serious depression was replaced by political anger. Yet the Cold World
is not just some preparation for militancy: it is important to retain
a certain fidelity with the glacial insights that the hard soil of the
Cold World yields. When Dominic spoke last week, his account of
dysphagia that is prompted by a loss that projects the sufferer out of
their set of symbolic attachments sounded like Freud's discussion of
melancholia; but it also reminded me of Naomi Klein's The Shock
Doctrine. Perhaps and here again the notion of "militant dysphoria"
seems especially urgent just now militant dysphagia could provide a
leftist alternative to the shock doctrine, which violently deprives
populations of their symbolic coordinates as a preparation for
imposing a neo-liberal narrative on their shattered nervous systems.
At a time when capitalism itself has been denuded of its symbolic
embedding when it has itself been plunged into a dysphoric condition
the time is right for new narratives to be developed and
propagated.Interesting response via email to the Atwood post by
someone calling themselves The Guava Tree ("I hope my email address
name doesn't throw you off and make you think I'm a religious hippie
person", they say), highlighting some aspects of The Year Of The Flood
which I underplayed: "Regressive it all is," Jameson remarks of the
"God's gardeners" cult in Atwood's The Year Of The Flood, adding a
provocative parenthesis: "it is always helpful to wonder what politics
today could possibly be otherwise." The Year Of The Flood is
disappointing in part because it has no alternatives to regression the
only way forward, it seems, is back to nature. It isn't the focus on
religion per se that is the signature of this regression; rather, it
is Atwood's retreat from the questions about religion that Oryx And
Crake posed so intriguingly. One of the climactic moments of Oryx was
the foundation of religious feeling amongst the labdesigned neonoble
savages, the Crakers. As per Totem and Taboo and Moses And Monotheism,
the religion emerges as a consequence of the death of the Father
figure. Ironies abound here: since the "Crakers" were made, not
begotten, the "Father" is actually their creatordesigner, the
misanthropic wunderkind Crake who had precisely designed them without
the neurological configuration which he believes gives rise to
religion. Crake is not so much an eliminate materialist as a
materialist eliminativist: "Crake thought he'd done away with all
that, eliminated what he called the spot in the brain. God is a
cluster of neurons, he'd maintained. It had been a difficult problem,
though: take out too much in the area and you got a zombie or a
psychopath." If, at first sight, the emergence of religion amongst the
crackers appears to be a kind of miracle, in the end it is only a
testament to the power of other (psychoanalytic and cultural)
determining factors in addition to neurology. Crake's experiments
constitute a retort to the hoary old reactionary homily that utopia is
alien to human nature. (For a recent version of this, see one of the
antagonists in Zizek's latest book, the ubercapitalist realist Guy
Sorman, with his claim that, "[w]hatever the truths uncovered by
economic science, the free market is finally only the reflection of
human nature, itself hardly perfectible.") If that's the case, Crake
concludes with the pragmatism of the autist, we should change human
nature: the means are now available. Crake is effect responds to
Freud's argument in Civilization And Its Discontents that, even if
property relations were made egalitarian, antagonism would continue to
arise because of sexual competition. "Maybe Crake was right," Snowman
reflects, That had been the milder form: the single man at the window,
drinking himself into oblivion to the mournful strains of the tango.
But such things could escalate into violence. Extreme emotions could
be lethal. If I can't have you nobody will, and so forth. Death could
set in. The militant modernist is of course right to resist any
equation of technomodernity with Nazism. Nazi time, with its mixture
of the ultraarchaic and the technologically cutting edge, was in
effect an anticipation taste of the postmodern, not any sort of
logical conclusion of modernism. The temporality of Kraftwerk,
meanwhile, was never one of simple futureorientation. The transEurope
Express sounds like a steam train, and Kraftwerk's records are
suffused with nostalgia for a future that never came to be. One of the
many interesting things about Kraftwerk is the way that this what
conjecture, this ghost train of German modernism, became the actual
(Afrogermanic) future of music. Incidentally, for comments and gloss
on the concept of the communicational sublime that I auditioned in my
review of the Kraftwerk reissues in the current issue of The Wire, see
Antagonist. I don't know how much mileage there is in the idea of the
communicational sublime, but there's certainly material in littler and
McLuhan which would feed into any elaboration of it. Listening to
TransEurope Express over and over, I was reminded of two American
travellers in the Europe of the 1970s, not the Iggy Pop namechecked by
Kraftwerk themselves, but Tom Ripley and Jason Bourne. Bourne and
Ripley who has such grotesquely comic adventures aboard a train in
Ripley's Game are strange echoes of one another, lost in the
communicational landscape of Europe Endless. "Rendezvous on
ChampsElysees ... Leave Paris in the morning on T.E.E. ... In Vienna
we sit in a late-night cafe ..." The transport system of Europe is the
backdrop for Ripley and Bourne's existentialist travails, which have
opposite aims. Ripley deliberately uses the piazzas and street cafes
of old Europe to bury his old self and forge a new one; Bourne, an
amnesiac thrown into the black water , stalks through the banks and
salons of Zurich and Paris for clues to who he is. In Ludlum's novel,
"the Bourne identity" is part of a complex plot against Carlos the
Jackal a kind of protocyberpunk impersonal that must disassembled
itself. As I argue in Capitalist Realism, though, when Bourne returns
in the Matt Damon films, it is as an avtar of post-fordist plasticity:
the identity that emerges from the constructed Bourne shell has no
more depth than the Bournesimulation itself. dysphagia screams quietly
out of Margaret Atwood's Surfacing. In some respects, Surfacing,
published in 1972, could be seen as registering the bitter awakening
after the militant euphoria of the Sixties, Atwood's famously cold
prose freezing over the Sixties' heated loins, and drawing, from the
semidesolation of the Canadian bush, a new Cold World landscape as
alluring and forbidding as any in literature. A conservative reading
suggests itself what surfaces here, it might seem, are the
consequences that Sixties permissiveness imagined it had dispensed
with. The repressed which in this sense would mean the agencies of
repression themselves returns in the spectral form of the unnamed
narrator's aborted child, encountered in a dark lake space where
excrement and jellyfishlike foetal scrapings float, the objected and
the aborted commingling in a sewer of the Symbolic. Far from enabling
her to 'regain' some 'wholeness', the reintegration of this lost
object destroys the fragile collage of screen memories and fantasies
the narrator's unconscious has artfully constructed, projecting her
from the frozen poise of dysphagia into schizophrenia which, in the
conservative reading, would constitute a proper punishment for her
licentiousness. There's a great deal at stake in resisting this
conservative reading, and I think it takes us to the heart of what is
so valuable in the concept of a militant dysphoria. Certainly,
Surfacing savagely deflated the pretentions of the counterculture,
which Atwood's narrator remorselessly eliminates, exposing a
libertarianmisogynistic "Americanism" underneath. "I could see into
him, he was an imposter, a pastiche, layers of political handbills,
pages from magazines, affiches, verbs and nouns glued on to him and
shredding away, the original surface littered with fragments and
tatters. ... Secondhand American was spreading over him in patches,
like mange or lichen." In his recent lb review of Atwood's The Year Of
The Flood Jameson admiringly cites one of the anti-american
culmination which punctuate Surfacing. Yet it should be remembered
that Atwood cool ironies the anti-americanism of her characters by
having the swaggering books that they had imagined to be American turn
out to be fellow Canadians Canadians who had themselves thought that
the narrator's group were Americans. Everyone it appears is
Americanised now, none more so than these hip(pie) longhairs spouting
anti-american rhetoric. If Surfacing rejects the facile gestures of an
exhausted, narcissistic counterculture, there is no question of its
endorsing the (apparently) safe and settled world which the
counterculture repudiated. That world of supposedly organic solidity
her parents' world, where people have children who grow like flowers
in their back garden, the narrator imagines is gone, Atwood's narrator
notes, with an edge of wistfulness that nevertheless stops somewhat
short of nostalgic longing. What remains is not any politics rooted in
an actual lifeworld, but a politics of the Cold World. The question
that Surfacing poses, and leaves hanging, is how to mobilise dysphagia
rather than treat it as a pathology that requires cure either by
successful reintegration into the Symbolic/ civilization or by some
purifying journey out beyond the Symbolic into a pre-linguistic
Nature. How, in other words, is it possible to keep faith with, rather
than remedy, the narrator's affective dyslexia? Surfacing belongs to
the same moment as Baudrillard's Symbolic Exchange And Death,
Lyotard's Libidinal Economy, Irigaray's Speculum: Of The Other Woman
and Deleuze and Guattari's AntiOedipus. Though it is A Thousand
Plateaus that Surfacing most obviously prefigures yet what separates
Surfacing's "terrifying Deleuzian deveniranimal" (Jameson) from
Deleuze and Guattari is precisely Atwood's refusal of
affirmation(ism). At her moment of schizophrenic breakrapture, the
narrator certainly sounds like a good Deleuzean: "they think I should
be filled with death, I should be in mourning. But nothing has died,
everything is alive, everything is waiting to become alive", but this
febrile delirium is more in tune with Ben Woodard's "dark vitalism"
than Deleuze, and what flows and stalks in the bodywithoutorgans zone
of animal and waterbecomings is something like Ben's sinister "creep
of life". "I hear breathing, witheld, observant, not in the house but
all around it." The place beyond the fortifications of the Symbolic is
not only the space of an obscene, non-linguistic "life" but also where
everything deadened and dead goes, once it has been expelled from
civilization. "This is where I threw the dead things..." Beyond the
living death of the Symbolic is the kingdom of the dead. "It was below
me, drifting towards me from the furthest level where there was no
life, a dark oval trailing limbs. It was blurred but it had eyes, they
were open, it was something I knew about, a dead thing, it was dead."
Surfacing can be situated as part of another findeSixties/ early is
moment: the postpsychedelic oceanic. Atwood's lake, viscous with blood
and other bodily fluids, has something in common with the "bitches
brew" that Miles plunges into in 69, emerging, catatonic, only six
years later; it approaches the deep sea terrains John Martyn sounds
out on Solid Air and One World. "Pale green, then darkness, layer
after layer, deeper than before, seabottom: the water seemed to have
thickened, in it pinprick lights flicked and darted, red and blue,
yellow and white, and I saw that they were fish, the chasmdwellers,
fins lined with phosphorescent sparks, teeth neon. It was wonderful
that I was down so far..." But these spaces of dissolved identity are
not approached from the angle of a now tortured, now lulled male on a
vacation from the Symbolic, but from the perspective of someone who
was never fully integrated into the Symbolic in the first place.
Surfacing, like the later Oryx And Crake, is a kind of rewriting of
Civilisation And Its Discontents the text with which all that early is
theory had to wrestle, and reckon. Just as at the end of Oryx And
Crake, Surfacing concludes with a moment of suspension, with the
narrator, like Oryx's Snowman, poised between the schizophrenic space
beyond the Symbolic and some return to civilisation is this suspension
not the proper place of the dysphoric militant? Perhaps what is most
prescient about Surfacing is its acceptance that civilization/the big
Other/ language cannon in the end be overcome and overwhelmed by means
of libido, madness, mysticism or whatever other weapons the militant
euphoric had thrown against it yet, despite all this, Surfacing does
not recommend an acquiescence to the reality principle. "For us, it's
necessary, the intercession of words," the narrator concedes but who
is this "us"? It seems at first to encompass only the narrator and the
lover with which she may be about to be reconciled. Then we might be
tempted to read the "us" as humanity in general, and the novel would
be ending with a fairly cheap reconciliation between civilisation and
one who was discontented with it. Yet it's more interesting to think
of the "us" as indicating those, like the narrator, who do not
properly belong to humanity at all what kind of language, what kind of
civilisation, would these discontents make? The lake is quiet, the
trees surround me, asking and giving nothing. So it is ... and that's
why crises pose no kind of threat to it... I'm in no position to
comment directly on Climate Camp, since I haven't visited it. For a
far more informed perspective than I could give, take a look at this
post by Alex offe Est Un Autre, which I've meant to link to for some
time now. But what troubles me what, in fact, provokes a repulsion and
hostility in me is captured very well by the the opposition that Owen
sets up or rather observes as having already been set up in his
excellent post. What Owen saw in Blackheath the nauseating candyfloss
pleasure of the funfair on one side, the earnest agrarianism of
Climate Camp on the other recalls the structuring opposition in the
novels of Ursula Le Guin. Most famously in The Dispossessed but also
in City Of Illusions and The Word For World Is Forest, Le gain opposes
an artificial, toxic and consumer city (in all of these words become
practically synonymous for Le Guin) with a "natural", organic,
anarchist settlement, a kind of mitigated or to use Le Guin's own term
"ambiguous" utopia, in which privation, asceticism and the dangers or
hierarchy are by no means glossed over. Some of the most powerful
passages in The Dispossessed describe the literally poisonous nature
of the capitalist planet arras to those used to the spartan conditions
on the breakaway anarchist world Anarres. Capitalism, for Le gain as
much as for Burroughs, becomes a system of addictions. The reason that
this is so pertinent now is that, as Owen's post implies, the
opposition that Le gain keeps returning to still marks the limits of
political possibilities. "Whatever organised resistance there is in
Britain," writes Infinite Thought,"it looks like this: unable to
formulate a properly economic response to the economic crisis,
whatever opposition to the undead spectacle of neoliberalism there is
has found itself moored on the shores of environmentalism and the odd
industrial strike." Capitalist realism projects its own outside, and
my suspicion is that the kind of anti-capitalism for which Climate
Camp seems to stand constitutes an "alternative" which is not
uncongenial to it. CR wants us to have to choose between the sweet
sickness of modernity and some agrarian "return to nature", (which
contains all kinds of other wretched "returns": to the "local", to the
"idiocy of rural life" that Marx and Engels rightly castigated). Or
rather: by already incorporating the "local" and "the organic" albeit
in a partly simulated form it presents itself as already containing
these two possibilities. The real alternative consists in what is
unthinkable now: an anti-capitalism that is also antiorganic. Alex
Autre disputes my claim that the anticipate Change movement is emptily
consensual, but I still don't think that there is anything particulary
controversial about saying that capitalism is now the prime cause of
climate change. Everyone in the sense of the big Other can accept
this, which is precisely why a film like WallE, which places the blame
for environmental disaster firmly with multinational corporations, can
be produced in the gleaming citadel at the heart of capitalism. The
problem is of a different order it concerns not the belief that
capitalism causes environmental depredation, but the sense that
anything could be done about it. That's why I'm profoundly sceptical
of any campaign based on spreading the magical elixir "awareness",
with its implication that the main reason people don't live in
ecotopia is that they don't "know" things, or that, as soon as they do
know, a critical mass will be achieved that will force change. It
seems to me, however, that the problem is not lack of awareness: the
actual issues are organisational and libidinal. As Savonarola puts it
in Owen's comments box: But we must start with problems of bureaucracy
and organisation, not regard them as evils which we, the good anti-
capitalist can overcome by virtue of our good will. It goes without
saying that leaderless systems are not necessarily virtuous capitalism
is the leaderless system par excellence. Nor, to say the least, is
there any necessary relation between consensus and the collective
interest. Bureaucracy, centralization, globalization the emphasis
shouldn't be on eliminating these things, but on getting them in the
right form. As to libido... Who, apart from a resentfulnihilist
inheritor of the Christian passion for eschatological annihilation,
would want to live in a restored "organic" world? We ourselves and the
death drive that makes us what we are are that inorganic
disequilibrium which always disrupts quiescence and harmony. Part of
the reason that capitalism has been so successful has been its
flatness with the plasticity of libido. The major discovery of Freud
and twentieth century modernism, reiterated by Lyotard, Baudrillard
and Deleuze and Guattari in the is is that libido is inorganic: it is
an artificialising montageartist, not a respecter of the boundaries of
the organism or of organic wholeness. Capitalism is constrained now by
having to appear in an "organic", "natural" form but it is necessary,
now more than ever, to imagine an anti-capitalism that embraces the
antiorganicism that capitalism is required to grass over. One of the
places you will be able to get Capitalist Realism is The Book
Depository, where it is already available to preorder. (OK, so the
Michael Jackson book is now with the copyeditor, so I have a little
more time for posts here... So a couple of throat clearing posts
before the long-promised Eliminativist Marxist post...) Zone Styx
Travelcard responds to Jude Rogers's simultaneously hilarious and
depressing "Why Don't You"style call to "action". What's interesting
about Rogers's piece is the assumption, by no means unique to her,
that "being positive" and "doing things" are automatically good, as if
it is a duty to be chipper and keep your chin up. But it is this
demand, this compulsory affirmationism, that is actually depressing.
As Zone notes, "I was far more depressed reading Rogers piece, than I
was when reading any of the quibbles shes trying to call time on." All
of this resonated as, during the course of research for my next book,
I read adrian Leader's The New Black: Mourning, Melancholia And
Depression the other day. I was particularly struck by Leader's
comparison of CBT with the techniques used by the leaders of the
Cultural Revolution. "Cognitive therapy," Leader argues, "was perhaps
used most widely in the Cultural Revolution in China, where people
were taught that depression was just wrong thinking. ... Positive
thinking should banish unhelpful and antisocial negative attitudes.
This form of conditioning shares the aims of cognitive behavioural
therapy today. The individual is taught to deny the legitimacy of
their symptoms." However accurate or not this might be in relation to
the Cultural Revolution, it is certainly the case that "positive
thinking" functions as a tool of ideological realignment in late
capitalism, So much of the labour of the cultural workers of late
capitalism with their light! upbeat! irreverent! cheerleading for the
latest commodity acts precisely to make us deny the legitimacy of our
symptoms. (I think of the strangely solemn quality of Edith Bowman's
deadened enthusing on BBC3's coverage Reading festival: she looks like
a hostage forced to profess the "brilliance" of everything that
happens to pass into her consciousness.) Making negative judgements is
held to be the result of "moaning", in other words a defective mental
attitude. (With the implication, as Zone points out, that with the
right mental attitude, one can learn to like anything.) The by now
familiar generational form of this argument that the only reason
anyone would be negative about current culture is that they are
nostalgic for their lost youth is equally depressing in its nihilistic
relativism (for it suggests that enthusiasm is dependent upon being
young rather than on any inherent features of the cultural objects
themselves). But this falls down for at least three reasons. First,
the idea that there is something innately radical about the young, or
that there is a necessary relationship between radicalism and youth,
is a kind of romanticrockist myth that might have been convincing when
youth culture was at the leading edge of popular modernism, but it is
hard to seriously maintain now, when "youth" is routinely mobilised as
a demographic weapon in the services of hedonic conservatism. (Why is
Channel 4 crap? Because it is chasing the "young". Why does mouldy old
rock enjoy full spectrum dominance because the "young" love it.) It is
this demographicallyconstituted "young" which is nostalgic, but its
nostalgia is of a formal, not a psychological kind. In any case, the
equation of youth with radicalism is merely the obverse of the idea
that radicalism is a pathology of youth, put aside once "maturity"
arrives. Second, whenever the young were radical, it was precisely by
virtue of their discontent with the time and culture in which they
happened to be living. The history of pop is the story of the tension
between dissatisfaction and its commodification. Third, you you only
have to look at the figures for depression amongst the young to
realise that the young themselves are far from being happy-go-lucky
pleasureseekers who would just be enjoying themselves if it weren't
for curmudgeon theorists stealing their mojo, daddio. Faced with
objectively appalling conditions (rising unemployment, continuously
assessed education yielding qualifications that are getting worth less
year by year) but embedded into a matrix of CBT, ssrs and PR, the
young are the primary victims of compulsory positivity, and even
apparently hedonistic phenomena such as binge drinking are symptoms of
despondency rather than straightforward expressions of
pleasureseeking. (Alex's remarks on the perils of narcomaterialism
notwithstanding, the dominance of a low-level obviate and sedative
like alcohol in UK youth culture, tells its own story about the long
comedown we've endured.) One of the many reasons that Dominic's
postulation of a "militant dysphoria" is so suggestive is that it
holds open the possibility of a politics that is answerable to the
negative, rather than one which obediently falls into line with the
affirmations imperative to "be positive". Don't join in. Withdraw. Be
negative.  Speaking of negativity, I can't say I was too impressed
with Antichrist, which I finally got to see last night. I much
preferred IT's remarks to the film itself. I've had quite a lot of
contact with grief and depression recently, and Antichrist struck no
sort of chord. This wouldn't matter if Trier had created some
consistent plane, had produced a new lithography of despair; instead
there was just a ragbag of off-the-shelf symbols and hack Gnosticism,
all of it coming readypackaged with a Significance that Trier does
little to supplement or amplify. Trier didn't film Nature in a way
that made it seem bleak or oppressive (it certainly appeared far less
malevolent than it does in either The Evil Dead or The Blair Witch
Project, two films with which Antichrist compares badly), he relied on
Gainsbourg (unbelievably wooden throughout) and a talking fox telling
us that it is infernal. Of course, the scenes of mutilation and
automutilation have a visceral power, but it is cheaply achieved. (The
most disturbing things are the small details of weirdness the business
with the child's shoes, for instance.) And far from being the
objective correlative of the emotions the characters are enduring, the
violence dissipates any affect, tripping the film into an absurdity
that it although perhaps not Trier himself, who one can't help
thinking is laughing all the way to the bank was too po-faced to own.
By now, we're in the territory of slasher exploitation films (how the
directors of those films must wish that they had the licence which the
censors have extended to Trier). But where pulp films, like Black
Metal, have the courage to be pulled along by the absurdity of their
material, Trier cleverly contains the extremity within a frame of
warehouse tastefulness. The MO: take charged material which we're used
to seeing in pulp (witches! child death! extreme violence!) and slow
cook it in warehouse drear. The opening scene in which a child dies in
slowly black and white is so breathtakingly hyperaestheticised (it
looks like a perfume commercial) that that you have to assume Trier
was taking the piss. Similarly, it's hard to take the misogyny or the
metamisogyny seriously: by the end, all I could see was Trier
calculating what will most easily generate broadsheet column debate.
(As to the women's bodies/Nature/horror matrix, any of the films
discussed by Barbara Creed in The Monstrous Feminine are far superior
to Antichrist in their treatment of these themes, if only because they
dared to be symptoms.) Judging art by its supposed intentions is a
fallacy of course, and perhaps Trier was completely sincere but it's
hard to see how a film made by a manipulative cynic would have looked
any different. If you want a film from this year which uses
apocalyptic, christological and infernal imagery that lingers in the
mind, go and see Terminator Salvation instead. Terminator Salvation
feels like being plunged into the middle of a CGIaugimented nightmare;
Antichrist feels like it's been ribbed out of a book of dream
symbolism.  The article on depression that Dominic linked to is
interesting, in spite of the findings being situated within the absurd
framework of evolutionary psychology. The central question that
evolutionary psychology is required to answer what use did Evolution
have for X or Y behaviour? is as ludicrous as anything debated in
Medieval theology, and totally opposed to the key insights of Darwin.
Evolution legitimately functions only negatively, to show how
phenomena which appeared designed could be explained by mechanistic
causation. Evolutionary psychology is based on a simple fallacy of
reasoning just because "evolution" eliminates some maladaptive
behaviours or traits doesn't mean that all the behaviours or traits
that do survive fulfil some "purpose". Otherwise, "evolution" would an
omniscient God, wisely and judiciously ensuring the optimal
functionality of all behaviours and organs.  Incidentally, I couldn't
disagree more with David Byrne's claim, cited in Jude Rogers's piece,
that "We're very used to consuming art and culture. We find it easy to
sit there and have it fed to us." Surely what we are used to is
precisely the opposite in our drive to interact, we find it hard to be
fed anything now (an observation borne out by recent studies on
"connected cocooning" which suggest that, whilst ostensibly watching
television, many of us are actually engaged in digital twitch). As
kodak argued in the interview below, the supposedly "passive" skill of
listening is actually very hard to cultivate a situation that has only
worsened in the decade since kodak gave the interview. If Web 2.0 has
established anything, it is that is far easier to (inter)act that it
is to listen or to read a revelation that the experience of being
subjected to londonunderlondon at Gasworks underscored. We need
artists who will subject us to things, and we need to (re)learn how to
be subjected.A few people have written asking me when Capitalist
Realism will be coming out: it will be published at the end of
November, at the same time as the Michael Jackson book. But it won't
be available in many bookshops when it's published (bookshops aren't
exactly lithe and agile beasts, to say the least). It will be
available online, of course (I'll link to the Amazon page as soon as
it's up). On the Michael Jackson book: a testament to how good the
book will be is the fact that, after editing the essays, far from
being jaded by MJ, I'm far more interested in him than I was
beforehand. It's incredible how much strange and fascinating material
was floating around, hidden in the songs concealed partly because of
Jackson's mangling of diction. Ian's and Reid's writing about
"Thriller", to cite just only one example, has permanently transformed
my experience of listening to the song... previously I'd heard it only
as enjoyable enough kiddy fun(k), but Reid and Ian show that it is a
kind of LovecraftianZizekian incantation: Jackson thought that the
horror references were an idle jape but "Thriller" ended up being a
horribly accurate description of his subsumption into the "terror on
the screen", his consumption by the "jaws of the alien", the
CapitalThing, from which there really was no escape.... demons closing
in on every side... they're out to get you... You feel the cold hand
and wonder if you'll ever see the sun (As Ken Hollings reminds us in
his excellent essay, Jackson once told a friend: "I cant go out in the
sun. My face would fall off.") This is one of the most stirring
passages in Prince Of Networks, and it's particularly worth citing
just now, when the topic of grey vampires has come up again. The
mention of Nietzsche reminds me that he is one of the great scourges
of grey vampirism, nowhere more than in the following passage from
Part Six of Beyond Good And Evil: Baron Mordant wrote to me a while
back asking if grey vampires wasn't a symptom of mental illness, and
it is but of the widespread, normalised and normalising pathology that
Nietzsche describes here. As is wont, Nietzsche attributes the rise of
the "spider scepticism" to racial interlining but we needn't follow
his ethnicising logic in order to utilise his analysis, which applies
with uncanny acuity to the impasse of postmodern relativism and the
stale corridors of the academy, tyrannies by the Fear where the worst
thing that could happen was that you are caught out in an error or a
visited quotation, rather than that you have wasted your life in
endless equivocation, quibbling and deferral (while crying in your
statesubsidised beer that you are doing so...) Vampires do not appear
in mirrors. In the case of grey vampires and remember that there are
vampires that are not grey; there are other kinds of energy piracy
altogether, some more lustrous and ferocious this means both that they
cannon recognise themselves as vampires and that their existence is
entirely dependent upon the attention of the Other. Grey vampires do
not see themselves as vampires; they sincerely think that is a duty to
deflate enthusiasm and puncture projects. One sure sign of a grey
vampire is the airy dismissal of concepts such as energy vampires no
matter what their theoretical commitments might be in their published
intellectual work, gas are resolutely commonsensical in their everyday
ontologies. But make no mistake about it, there is no more Real level
to human life than that of energy and its distribution. As Burroughs
more than anyone else realised, persons and the social are just masks
covering up a terrain populated by energy predators and propagators.
Remember that you have to invite a vampire over your threshold and
grey vampires, like trolls, lose all their power once you cease to pay
them attention or think about them. That is why, when they feel that
your attention is gone, gas will try any trick to regain it the appeal
to 'democratic' values is a particularly scurrilous tactic ('you must
give me your attention! It's your duty'). trolls shamelessly try the
same thing, of course, and it must be remembered that gas are enablers
of trolls they like to position themselves as scrupulously neutral,
uncommitted (whilst preferring all sorts of promissory notes about the
commitments that they will make in future, what they will do once X or
Y have stopped, the bad faith fantasies that prevent them from seeing
the trap they are in) but the grey vampire's secret sympathies are
always with the troll. For the troll actually articulates the
resentment and spite which the grey vampires feel but are not able to
express. They share the trolls' justification for their action the
belief that some people are getting ahead of themselves, that there is
rather too much unseemly excitement about X or Y.... As if what was
required in intellectual life is more bent heads, more bitterness,
less enthusiasm.... Some teachers and lecturers do think that way, see
it as their role duty to pass on the arid petrification which
calcified their spirit usually sometime during their postgraduate
career ... Remember: all vampires are victims of vampirism... But I
see motivating students, passing on enthusiasm, as the first and most
important task of a teacher. (Which isn't to say that one has to
blindly encourage everything a student says or writes; far from it.)
That's why I would say that one of the most despicable figures in the
academic bestiary is the TrollMaster: the figure who feeds on the
crushed enthusiasm of belittled students. The easiest way to win a
cheap kind of respect is by adopting a nothingcanimpressme
hypocritical stance, doused in cool weltweltschmerz, finding fault
everywhere handing out praise and encouragement only very rarely; it's
a transparent tactic, but one that works surprisingly well, and not
only on jejune students, but also on very accomplished people, even
those who have written a number of books. Often, the TrollMaster's own
intellectual project will be mediocre and/ or suspended it's clear
that all their libidinal energy is tied up in enslaving students into
neurotic servitude. TrollMasters can permanently insinuate themselves
into students' heads, but usually their power depends upon the
hothouse claustrophobia of the university department they are village
despots, whose charismatic tyranny seldom works outside their own
turf. If they have a longterm effect, it is only to produce more grey
vampires. Graham is absolutely right to note that grey vampires tend
to operate on a one-to-one basis, whereas trolls always require an
audience. That's because trolls want the attention of the big Other,
whereas grey vampires want to directly identify with the big Other to
become the voice of neutrality and authority, the voice from nowhere,
which doesn't make any refutable claims and therefore cannon be caught
out. The reason that there is a close fit between grey vampires and
the academy now more than ever is that the academy seeks to inculcate
precisely this kind of neurotic neutrality (the other side of
careerist sandbaggery), where the most important thing is that
footnotes are correctly formatted. It is usually liberating to
actually read the work of gas and TrollMasters: from their endless,
refined critique, you're led to believe that what they produce will be
the most sophisticated, errorfree, immaculate work you could imagine;
it's quite a shock when you actually read it and see how contestable
and (often) mediocre it is. The alternative to these traps is not the
heroic solitary genius, but the network, another reason that Graham's
new book is so important. As Nick Srnicek has been arguing, political
theory now has to deal with the question of networks. (Inidentally,
one of the reasons that Speculative Realism can contribute so much to
political theory is that the areas SR opens up do not come already
prepacked in supersaturated pseudopolitical 'meaning', as in the
exhuasted, dustbowl terrains presided over by trad continental
philosophy.) The toxicity of grey vampires and trolls is so important
to think about because they it is essentially network toxicity.
Trolljouissance is derived precisely from their capacity to corrupt
networks the troll's usual MO is enter a thriving network and destroy
it by diverting all its energy to dealing with them. The grey vampire,
as ever, is more subtle and, for that reason and for so many others,
more dangerous. They sap the network's energy, not only by defending
trolls, but by also defending equivocation itself, by construing any
decision or determinate position as oppressive (deconstruction is a
grey vampire pathology). Their preferred model for discussion is the
fruitless combat of the comments box/ discussion board 'debate'. This
is the energyswamp of web 2.0; but other kinds of network can grow
here too. We have been told by the living that the idea of a vital
world is that of comfort and warmth. Dominic Fox assures us that this
is not the case. With an unparalleled militant efficiency, Cold World
blacken the lines between poetics and politics, music and negative
resistance. It is a haunting sermon from the world of the dead
exhorting the living to revolt in the name of a life whose vitality
has been disenchanted by coldness and whose sacredness has been
profane by nigredo. Reza Negarestani, Author of Cyclonopedia:
Complicity with Anonymous Materials Dominic Fox's timely and important
Cold World pinpoints the fundamental issue underlying contemporary
debate about the possibility of revolutionary politics in a culture
suffused by paralysing despondency. Drawing on a remarkable array of
sources from Coleridge and Gerard Manley Hopkins to arthur and Ulrike
Meinhof, Fox explores the necessary yet apparently contradictory link
between refusal and revolution. While refusal without revolution
perpetuates the very condition it would negate, revolution without
refusal quickly lapses into phantasmatic utopianism. The quandaries of
this particular dialectic have never been as lucidly charted as they
are here. Ray Brassier, Author of Nihil Unbound: Enlightenment and
Extinction Militant dysphagia Let's not beat around the bush: Fisher's
compulsively readable book is simply the best diagnosis of our
predicament that we have! Through examples from daily life and popular
culture, but without sacrificing theoretical stringency, he provides a
ruthless portrait of our ideological misery. Although the book is
written from a radically Left perspective, Fisher offers no easy
solutions. Capitalist Realism is a sobering call for patient
theoretical and political work. It enables us to breathe freely in our
sticky atmosphere. slave cizek What happened to our future? Mark
Fisher is a master cultural diagnostician, and in Capitalist Realism
he surveys the symptoms of our current cultural malaise. We live in a
world in which we have been told, again and again, that There Is No
Alternative. The harsh demands of the 'justintime' marketplace have
drained us of all hope and all belief. Living in an endless Eternal
Now, we no longer seem able to imagine a future that might be
different from the present. This book offers a brilliant analysis of
the pervasive cynicism in which we seem to be mired, and even holds
out the prospect of an antidote. Steven shapiro
DickDisneylandDysphoriaDesertification Dick's Time Out Of Joint,
published in 1959, two years after the first Disneyland park opened,
is remarkable for the way in which it treats literary realism as a
kind of Disneyfication. In a classic moment of Dick ontological
vertigo, the novel's painstakingly described small town is revealed,
in the end, to be an intricate system of pasteboard frontages,
hypnotic suggestions and negative hallucinations. The payoff can just
as easily be read in terms of critical metafictional as science
fiction, for what is any setting in realist fiction if not the same
kind of system? How is any 'reality effect' achieved except by authors
using techniques such as these? In the novel, the whole small town
scenario is constructed as a pretext, a comfortable setting in which
the protagonist can undertake high pressure military work for the
goverment while thinking that he is doing a trivial newspaper contest.
Yet it is clear that the science fictional elements were for Dick the
pretext that allowed him to write successfully in a naturalistic way
about is America. They were the framing devices that enabled Time Out
Of Joint to succeed where Dick's purely realist fiction failed. In
Postmodernism, Jameson captures the peculiar ache of nostalgia that
Time Out Of Joint engenders, a nostalgia for the present, which Dick
achieves by constellation stereotypical images of the decade he was
writing at the end of: "President Eisenhower's stroke; Main Street,
U.S.A.; Marilyn Monroe; a world of neighbours and PTAs; small retail
stores (the produce tucked in from outside); favourite television
programmes; mild flirtations with the housewife next door; game shows
and contests; sputnik directly revolving overhead, mere blinking
lights in the firmament, hard to distinguish from airliners or flying
saucers." (Monroe actually features as one of the ontological
anomalies that leads to the unravelling of the simulated small town,
for she has not been incorporated into the reconstructed 1950s world,
and appears to the main character only when he discovers some rotting
magazines, relics of the real 50s, in wasteground "outside the city
limits".) What is remarkable is the way in which Dick was capable, in
1959, of already identifying those stereotypical features of the
American is which would come to define the decade in retrospect. It is
not Dick's skill in projecting into the future that is to be admired
the novel's 1997 is connected out of generic SF tropes, far less
convincing than the ostensibly fake fifties world it embeds but rather
his capacity to imagine how the future would see the 50s. It is the is
already envisaged as a themepark; an anticipated reconstruction.
Dick's simulated smalltown is not enkitsched as Disney's memories of
his early with century were, but precisely given what Jameson calls
the "cabbage stink" of naturalism: "the misery of happiness, ... of
Marcuse's false happpiness, the gratifications of the new car, the TV
dinner and your favourite programme on the sofa which are now
themselves secretly a misery, an unhappiness that doesn't know its
name, that has no way of telling itself apart from genuine
satisfaction and fulfilment since it has presumably never encountered
this last." In this lukewarm world, ambient dysphagia hides in plain
view, a hazy malaise given off by the refrigerators, television sets
and other consumer durables. Jameson claims that "only Dick ... comes
to mind as the virtual poet laureate of this material: of squabbling
couples and marital dramas, of petit bourgeois shopkeepers,
neighbourhoods, and afternoons in front of the television, and all the
rest." Actually, Highsmith is another pulp poet laureate of the same
impasse of is America, and Time Out Of Joint is very close to the
cafes, suburban swimming pools and bitter marital deadlocks of This
Sweet Sickness, Deep Water or The Blunderer. These naturalist impasse
in Dick and Highsmith are invariably subsumed into a psychotic
evacuation of the Symbolic. What initially seem to be merely slight
deficiencies or excesses in the reality system inevitably turn out to
be massive and irreparable cracks; and the pulp elements in Highsmith
and Dick essentially amount to the authors' ultimate identification
with the psychotic perspective, with the gaping void of the Real.
House on the borderland of Psychoville? Edward Hopper's House By The
Railroad Some of Dick's most powerful passages are those in which
there is an ontological interrugnum: a traumatic unfolding is not yet
given a narrative motivation; a unresolved space that awaits
reincorporation into another Symbolic regime. In Time Out Of Joint,
the interregnum takes the form of an extraordinary scene in which the
seemingly dull objects of quotidian naturalism the gas station and the
motel act almost like a negative version of the lamppost at the edge
of the narnia forest. Unlike Lewis's lamppost, these objects do not
mark the threshold of a new world, a new Symbolic system; they
constitute instead staging posts on the way towards the desert of the
Real. When the edge of town gas stations come into focus, the
background furniture of literary realism suddenly looms into the
foreground, and there is a moment of armenian objectepipany, in which
readytohand, peripheral visionfamiliarity transforms into uncanny
opacity: But we don't intend to live here any more. We're leaving. For
good. I've been invited by curator hamza hasan to talk about
londonunderlondon.... details below... Other announcements: Some
people have enquired about the promised Eliminativism/Marxism post...
it is on its way but I have a couple of big deadlines to meet
first.... Finally, Capitalist Realism is to come out at the end of
November... anyone who can help with promoting it, please drop me a
line..."To where?" His dignity send me into another fit of laughter.
"Disneyland," He said defiantly. "What?" "Disneyland. I walked the
whole way." He made it sound as if Disneyland. was on some other
continent when in fact it was only a few blocks away. "I don't believe
you , Phil." "I have proof." "Let's see it." He took out his wallet
and extracted a laminated card. "It's a pass to Disneyland, good for
one whole year." "You must have paid a fortune for it". I took it in
my hand and stared at it. It appeared to be exactly what He said it
was. "To pay so much for one visit". "For one visit, yes. But it's a
bargain for several times." "Several times?" "Many times." "How many?"
"Every day at first. Now only two or three times a week." "My God
Phil." "There's a little cafe in Disneyland. They have outdoor tables.
I've gone there so often the waiters greet me by my first name".
"That's amazing." "Even Mickey. Mickey greets me by my first name."
Ray Nelson, "The Last Days Of Philip K Dick"What's haunting me, as I
watch all the Michael Jackson videos on constant rerun on the music
channels, as I listen to the chat of people on benches and in cafes,
all of us going through the now well-rehearsed routines of
massmediated death, but this time, it's not like the consensual
narcissism of the Diana fauxmourning, it's shocked grieving for our
real royalty, the prince of our deeply mediated unconscious... what's
haunting me is the difference between Jackson in the Off The Wall
videos and how he looks in the Thriller clips. I'm not talking about
the surgery, or rather I'm not only talking about that. The surgery by
then, 'only' a Disney eyewidening, a Diana Ross nosenarrowing, and a
little skinbleaching, as nothing compared to the collapsing
Cronenbergian butchery of later years is but a symptom of the change
that you can see in Jackson's face and body. Something had already
disappeared that early, never to return. The death of this King "my
brother, the Legendary King Of Pop", as germaine Jackson described him
in his press conference, as if giving Michael his formal title recalls
not the Diana carcrash, but the sad slump of Elvis from catatonic
narcotics into the long good night. Perhaps it was only Elvis who
managed to insinuate himself into practically every living human
being's body and dreams to the same degree that Jackson did, at the
microphysical level of enjoyment as well as at the macrolevel of
spectacular memeplex. Michael Jackson: a figure so subsumed and
consumed by the videodrome that it's scarcely possible to think of him
as an individual human being at all... because he wasn't of course...
becoming videoflesh was the price of immortality, and that meant being
dead while still alive, and noone knew that more than Michael... grail
Marcus's writing on Jackson or rather 'Jacksonism' is some of his most
astute commentary on pop and political economy. Lipstick Traces was as
much about Restoration, about the Spectacular covering over of the
punk event of 7678 as it was about the event itself, and Marcus very
quickly understood the massive role that jacksons played in this
erasure. A new form of control emerged when shopping malls, VHS
videos, charity records and TV commercials became interchangeable
aspects of the same commoditymedia landscape: consensual
sentimentality as videodrome. Well, it was new then, all that, but
it's very old now, and scarcely visible to us any more now that we
have grown habituated to living inside it. It was capitalist realism
as entertainment, and we all bought to it, whether we liked it or not:
... By 6 July 1984, when the Jacksons played the first show of their
"Victory" tour, in Kansas City, Missouri... jacksons had produced a
system of commodification so complete that whatever and whoever was
admitted to it instantly became a new commodity. People were no longer
consuming commodities as such things are conventionally understood
(records, videos, posters, books, magazines, key rings, earrings
necklaces pins buttons wigs voicealtering devices pepsin shirts
underwear hats scarves gloves jackets and why were there no jeans
called bill Jeans?); they were consuming their own gestures of
consumption. That is, they were consuming not a taylorist Michael
Jackson, or any licensed facsimile, but themselves. Riding a moebius
strip of pure capitalism, that was the transubstantiation. But a pop
explosion not only links those otherwise separated by class, place,
color and money; it also divides. Confronted with performers as
appealing and disturbing as Elvis Presley, the Beatles or the Sex
Pistols people who raise the possibility of living in a new way some
respond and some don't. It became clear that Michael Jackson's
explosion was of a new kind. It was the first pop explosion not to be
judged by the subjective quality of the response it provoked, but to
be measured by the number of objective commercial exchanges it
elicited. Michael Jackson was absolutely correct when he announced, at
the height of his year [1984], that his greatest achievement was a
Guinness Book of World Records award certifying that Thriller had
generated more totten singles (seven) than any other LP and not, as
might have been expected ... "to have proven that music is a universal
language," or even "to have demonstrated that with God's help your
dreams can come true." The pop explosions of Elvis, the Beatles and
the Sex Pistols had assaulted or subverted social values; Thriller
crossed over them like kudzu. The jacksons pop explosion ... was
brought forth as a version of the official social reality, generated
from Washington D.C. as ideology, and from Madison Avenue as language
... a glamorisation of the new American fact that if you weren't on
top, you didn't exist. "Winning," read a Nestle ad featuring an
Olympicstyle medal cast in chocolate, "is everything." "We have one
and only one ambition," said Lee Iacocca for Chrysler. "To be the
best. What else is there?" Thus the Victory tour which originally
boasted a more apocalyptic title: "Final Victory." Graham highlights
an ambiguity in the concept of the Grey Vampire that occurred to me,
but which I hadn't properly resolved: namely, is the Grey Vampire a
category of person, or is it a subjective position that anyone can
fall into? I would say both. It's certainly true, as Graham says,
"that all or many of us might have our vampires sides. There might be
areas of life in which each of us is some sort of bloodsucker."
Absolutely, and of course there's nothing wrong with leaching off
others' energy and resources if they have an abundance. But what
differentiates the Greys from other kinds of vampires is the disavowed
nature of the feeding. Grey Vampires don't feed on energy directly,
they feed on obstructing projects. The problem is that, often, they
don't know that they are doing this. (That's one difference between
them and a troll trolls usually aren't under any illusions about
themselves, they just find spurious justifications for their
activities.) There is very definitely a type of person who is a Grey
Vampire I've encountered a few, and, once their shield of sociability
and charm falls away, they become revealed as horribly, tragically
cursed, existentially blighted. But the Grey Vampire is also a subject
position that (any)one can be lured into if you enter certain
structures. Part of the reason I can't hack it as an academic is that,
in a university environment, I invariably find myself sincere between
the troll and Grey Vampire positions. That's why I sincerely admire
anyone who can pursue a project in the academy. Although being
pressure-cooker in the post-fordist precocity of freelancing is in
some respects extremely difficult (not least in brute economic terms:
in an average week, I'm lucky if I make the equivalent of minimum
wage; not that I'm complaining I never forget that I'm extremely
fortunate to be able to write, think and teach for a [near] living),
in other ways it is very easy. There's a certain lightness and
velocity that can be achieved when you are at the edge of employment
structures, or passing between them, rather than being embedded in
them. Graham makes some important clarifications on the concept of the
troll. As Graham rightly points out, trolling does not require
anonymity (I would further add that anonymity has nothing to do with
facelessness, but that's for another time). Many online trolls use
their own names, and in any case, any tag, even if it is only ever
used in cyberspace, starts to function as a name if it is used
consistently. What's different about the academic environment to the
web is not so much that people are named per se. It it that, because
of their public profile, academics, as Graham says, are "awash in all
kinds of sincerities we may know a bit about their biases, their hero
authors, their musical taste, their personal life, their vices, and so
forth." It is these sincerities that compromises their trolling, plus
the fact that if they are actual academics rather than perpetual
postcards they will be associated with some set of refutable claims
for which they can be held accountable . But the continuing influence
of poststructuralism (a kind of negative theology of prevaricating
academic practice) plus research measurement exercises have made it
easier even mandatory for humanities academics to retreat into
nebulous intricacy and/ or databasing of the sort "X (1993) said Y
about Z (1968)". (It's ironic that this discussion should have been
prompted by a repudiation of radio since one of the great attractions
of his theory was a forceful refusal of the academodeconstructive doxa
that making determinate claims or having projects, was 'oppressive'.
Not as ironic as making appeals to suffering humanity in a defence of
Badiou, but still...) Without a project, anyone academic or otherwise
is in danger of falling prey to the lure of the Troll or Grey Vampire
subjectivities. Detached from projects, academic skills become
pathologies. The only aim becomes to demonstrate how much you have
read (never enough the debt is always infinite) or how much you have
thought (always far more than anyone who makes a determinate claim,
whom both Trolls and gas regard as too hasty, too crassly populist,
too intemperate, whatever...). It oughtn't be necessary to point out
that not everyone who works in an academic institution is an academic
qua academic. Many struggle against the structural tendencies, try to
hold open higher educational spaces so that they can be something more
than an exercise in pointless critique and bureaucratic
footnotepolicing. The same is true of others facing different
structural constraints (such as those imposed by print media). At the
moment, it is the discourse networks of the web which provides a
unique space, an outside of both the critical compression in the
academy and media. It's no accident, for example, that speculative
realism is really proliferating and multiplying in an exciting way on
the web. A reader writes, worrying that they might be a Grey Vampire:
[Ultracompressed notes on T4] If you're reading this, you are the
resistance. And right on cue: Terminator: Salvation delivers the
scorched earth mythscape for our year zero. Earth as ground zero, an
ultramilitarized zone in the grip of an ongoing catastrophe.
Everything in ruins: a fictional diagram of Now. CGI finally codes for
CyberGothic, the battered future returning as an infernal landscape
bolted together out of Black Metal nightmares, apocalypse Now
choppers, towering War Of The Worldslike megacidal machines and
videotape ballistics. accelerationist as thrillride, deepcooled in
cold libido, which the final few minutes of sentimentalist can't
recuperate for humanist overcode.Narrative compressed into speed
blips. Dialogue as jingoistic soundbites.'What just happened?'
'Judgement Day'.It really believes it's human. (Like you do.)You are a
good man. (Echoes of Roy Batty's taunt to Deckard: 'aren't you the
good man.') Cyborg catatonia.Symbolic exchange and machine death.The
difference between us and the machines is that we bury our dead. There
is no fate One of the many fascinating things about Alex's properly
punk provocation is the immunoresponse it has induced (and, ladies and
gentlemen, if punk means anything it is this kind of divisive
unsettling of good sense; choose your sides and it's not a matter of
agreeing with the content, it's whether you can cope with the
intemperance and the impatience of the style, whether, in the end,
when faced with this kind of thing, you will take refuge from the
scouring challenges of theoretical abstraction in guffawing
Guardianista commonsense or scholarly piety). This must be the work of
disappointed fans, we are told. The implication here is double: the
vicissitudes of fanadoration have no relationship to proper
philosophical discussion, and fan exasperation, the annihilation of
the former idol, is somehow juvenile. It's always other people who are
'fans': our own attachments, we like to pretend (to ourselves; others
are unlikely to be convinced) have been arrived at by a properly
judicious process and are not at all excessive. There's a peculiar
shame involved in admitting that one is a fan, perhaps because it
involves being caught out in a fantasyidentification. 'Maturity'
insists that we remember with hostile distaste, gentle embarrassment
or sympathetic condescension when we were first swept up by something
when, in the first flushes of devotion, we tried to copy the style,
the tone; when, that is, we are drawn into the impossible quest of
trying to become what the Other is it to us. This is the only kind of
'love' that has real philosophical implications, the passion capable
of shaking us out of senses communis. Smirking postmodernity images
the fan as the sad greenish Trekkie, pathetically, fetishistically
invested in what all good sense knows is embarrassing trivia. But this
lofty, purportedly olympian perspective is nothing but the view of the
Last Man. Which isn't to make the fatuous relativist claim that
devotees of radio are the same as Trekkies; it is to make the point
that Graham has been tirelessly reiterating that the critique from
nowhere is nothing but trolling. Trolls pride themselves on not being
fans, on not having the investments shared by those occupying whatever
space they are trolling. Trolls are not limited to cyberspace,
although, evidently, zones of cyberspace comments boxes and discussion
boards are particularly congenial for them. And of course the
elementary Troll gesture is the disavowal of cyberspace itself. In a
typical gesture of flailing impotence that nevertheless has effects of
energydrain and demoralisation the Troll spends a great deal of time
on the web saying how debased, how unsophisticated, the web is by
contrast, we have to conclude, with the superb work routinely being
turned out by 'professionals' in the media and the academy. In many
ways, the academic qua academic is the Troll par
excellence.Postgraduate study has a propensity to breeds trolls; in
the worst cases, the mode of nit-picking critique (and autocritique)
required by academic training turns people into permanent trolls,
trolls who troll themselves, who transform their inability to commit
to any position into a virtue, a sign of their maturity (opposed, in
their minds, to the allegedly infantile attachments of The Fan). But
there is nothing more adolescent in the worst way than this posture of
alleged detachment, this sneer from nowhere. For what it disavow is
its own investments; an investment in always being at the edge of
projects it can neither commit to nor entirely sever itself from the
worst kind of libidinal configuration, an appalling trap, an
existential toxicity which ensures debilitation for all who come into
contact with it (if only that in terms of time and energy wasted the
Troll above all wants to waste time, its libido involves a banal
sadism, the dull malice of snatching people's toys away from them).
Related to Trolls, and in some ways even more dangerous, are what
Scanshifts and I call Grey Vampires: Grey Vampires are creatures who
disguise their mothgreyness in iridescent brightness, all the colours
of attractive sociability. Like moths, they are drawn by the light of
energetic commitment, but unable to themselves commit. Unlike the
Toll, the Grey Vampire's mode is not aggressive, at least not actively
so; the Grey Vampire is a mothlike only on the inside. On the outside,
they are bright, humorous, positive everyone likes them. But they are
possessed by a a deep, implacable sadness. They feed on the energy of
those who are devoted, but they cannon devote themselves to anything.
The dominant modes of subjectivity at the end of history/ web 2.0 are
those of the Troll and the Grey Vampire, the two faces of the Last
Man. This isn't to say that most people are not fans; they are, but
many work hard to conceal this about themselves, for it makes them
vulnerable to attacks from Trolls or Grey Vampires, or the Trolls or
Grey Vampires in themselves. They are subordinated to The Fear and its
demand that we be irreverent, that we constitute ourselves as
ironically self-defeating subjects (I'm the sort of person who....).
The postmodern academic, complicit with the system that immiserates
them, reflexively impotent, is required to oscillate between being
Troll and Grey Vampire, between hypocritical scholarliness and
convivial sociality, kept locked into the system by just the right
level of prestige and selfloathing. That's why most of the interesting
work done in institutions is achieved by people who have infiltrated
the academy after periods of (intellectual and subjective)
destitution. So I will admit it: I am a fan, and this holds for my
philosophical, as much as my cultural, investments. The two are in any
case interchangeable there is a philosophy implicit in any cultural
product worth its salt (as Dominic, Alex and Reza demonstrate with
their methodanalyses of Black Metal, whose fanaticism make it the
black mirror reverse of the overground kingdom of Trolls and Grey
Vampires. And the antisocial dysphagia of Black Metal being noone has
far more to offer any just century Marxism than the moralising
homilies of clubbable, rubbish socialism.) There is a strong
relationship between the Fan and the critic. The best critics do not
pretend to offer valueneutal judgements from nowhere as Nietzsche,
Marx, Freud and Lacan have shown in their different ways, no such
place exists , although the fantasy position of something like
Analytic Philosophy is to pretend that it does. Again, this is not a
relativist or anti-realist point any sophisticated realist position
has to deal with the fact that we can't step over own own shadow (but,
as Graham and Levi insist, rightly in my view, a commitment to realism
does not entail any human access to the real; in fact, it is more
likely to mean the opposite). Even at its most debased, there is a
systematicity to Fan devotion, and it is this systematicity which the
good sense of Web 2.0 'irreverence' always recoils from and mocks.
Imagine believing something, it's so vulgar, tasteless,
embarrassing... This 'systematicity' looks 'silly' considered from the
armchair of the Last Man but so is any reality system including that
of anglo saxon nominalism viewed from outside (isn't this one of the
abiding lessons of Foucault, the point of his famous invocation of
Borges's taxonomy at the start of The Order Of Things?) And of course
there is no more 'silly' system than Badiou's, an ultraintricate chain
of entailment and exclusions which only the superdedicated
professional or the monastic devotee can have the time and energy to
explore. But the new and the sublime is just as likely to initially
seem 'silly' as it is incomprehensible or distressing (cf Jungle,
which was smoothly dismissed as 'silly' by IDMers.) Really, the
'Badiou backlash' started with Ray's memorable exasperation at the
Middlesex Being And Event nonevent, when, at the end, he asked if
Badiou's system is anything more than a elaborate folly. It was a
bracing intervention after a day of soporific solemnity. If the vice
of Deleuzianism was the encouragement it gave horrible slew of New Age
vitalisms, language antithinking artspeak (no need to be coherent,
just be creative) and happyclappy pre-capitalist positivity, one of
the most regrettable effects of Badiou's preeminence has been to
restore the prestige of philosophical priestscholar pofacedness I take
Levi's point that much of the appeal of cizek for certain Cult Studs
types is that he legitimates talking about TV programmes and films,
but the appeal of radio for another kind of academic is that they
don't have to discuss television or media, and can reassure themselves
that talking about bourgeois kitsch in art galleries, museums and
university departments is the proper pursuit of the Philosopher;
that's why the Paul Bowman critique had a certain point. There's a
certain disingenuousness in Badioudevotees complaining of slaying the
Master, when, in the UK world at least, so much of the impetus behind
the move to radio came from disappointed and/ or defecting Deleuzians.
As one of Graham's correspondents rightly observes, it is hard to see
radio both in terms of the sociology of his reception and the status
of his philosophical project except as the antiDeleuze.
AntiDeleuzianism was certainly necessary in this dismal decade; and
radio played a part in waking me from my Deleuzian slumber, but and
here's a confession no proper philosopher should make cizek played
more of a part. I've been a cizek fan, but I only ever admired
(aspects of) Badiou. Betrayal is just as important a cultural engine
as fidelity; hate is just as important as love. But only the fan can
betray, only the lover can hate. That's why betrayal and hate are as
alien to the Troll as they are to the Grey Vampires. The problem with
radio and cizek is not any totalitarianism, but the fact that their
politics are postmodern simulations played out for an academic
gallery: 'comedy Maoism' and 'comedy Stalinism', as Alex has put it.
Their immense value this decade was to naturalise capitalist realism,
and to expose the complicity of polo sophistry and deconstructive
indecision in the neo-liberal reality picture, but both remain victims
of the Old Left vice of looking backwards. This is far more true of
radio than of Zizek, who will engage with neurophilosophy and genetic
engineering. One of the strange things about radio is the curious
retrospective temporality of his literally postmodernist philosophy
this is what it was to be a militant, this is what it was to fall in
love... well, yes, but, now what? What's rousing about The Meaning Of
sarky is precisely the call to start again from nothing. We need to
take him at his word here. radio has led us through the desert of the
hyperreal, but the promised land turns out to be a scorched earth
where the raddled old communist ideas, terms and histories cannon take
root. Time for the last of the 68 fathers to be ushered offstage. Time
for speculative realism to come to the centre. And I'll return to this
in the long-promised eliminativist Marxist post. Some of you might
have seen fragments of an unfinished post here, which I posted up by
accident (a brief glimpse behind the curtain into the punk lab of
half-formed posts)... That post is part of the long-promised extended
response to the Idea Of Communism conference, now given a new urgency
by Alex's glorious act of nihilation. I will complete that post and
post it up properly in the next day or so; in the meantime I'm working
on another post on Fans, Trolls and Masters which should be up later
on today. Dominic articulates some of the objections I too have with
Alex's valuable provocative post. Alex has brilliantly mobilised and
mutated some of Reza's decaythought (not least in his bravura
theorization of Wonky, fully vindicated by the new SaRa Creative
Partners record, for me one of the albums of the decade, and fitting
Alex's deliquescentdescription perfectly see my review in the latest
issue of The Wire). But I'm not sure if there isn't a confusion of
registers here the corruption to which I (and I think Dominic) are
referring is not some grand liquefaction, some rot teeming with
pestilential potential. It's more tawdry, dreary and deadening than
that. The current disintegration of capitalist parliamentarianism is
yielding no rectifying putrescence, only a cynical confirmation of the
capitalist realist sense that everything is both base and boring. The
corruption I'm talking about is the corruption of PR, capital's
natural language, and something which has indeed insidiously infects
all aspects of work and culture, but not in any way that is
interesting. What I find most valuable in radio is precisely the
emphasis on antiworldliness; but 'being worldly' is of course not the
same as 'being material'. 'Worldliness' entails accommodating oneself
to a social phenomenology (to use a phrase Ben recently invoked), a
set of determinations about what is possible which, crucially, have
nothing to do with the constraints imposed by materiality. What's
inspiring about Badiou's polemics is, in other words, their refusal of
capitalist realism (which in one of its guises is the Sarkozyism
magnificently eviscerated in The Meaning Of Sarkozy.) And what appeals
to me about radio is certainly not The System (which as a
mathsincompetent I have little affinity for and limited interest in)
but his delineation of a militant phenomenology, his demand that we
maintain fidelity with that mode of subjectivity which, through
struggle, through plugging from the dull somnambulism of the social,
has attained a higher pitch of existence. The problem for me is that
this seems to amount to a descriptive itinerary which might be
encouraging but has limited political application the political
question is how these militant breakout can be engineered, not what
they are like once they have already happened. (I think Alex is right
that speculative realism might offer better resources for thinking a
new politics than Badiou's retromodernism.) Yet none of this has
anything to do with the year zero I've been talking about. Year zero
will not confer militant subjectivity on anyone as of right; nor will
it redemptive 'cleanse' us. Year zero very definitely does mean a
'clean slate'. It means a cleared space. It is not a pristine space;
far from it, as Alex himself memorably put it, it's a space strewn
with 'ideological rubble'. The 'neoliberal reboot' that Dominic fears
is one way the dreariest that the space could be used. Yet it isn't
the only way. The neo-liberal mind paralysis is over, even if we are
only just, fitfully, reviving from its pacifying effects. To take
advantage of the ideological dereliction that we're in the midst of
entails not ascending into some sanitised high ground but quite to the
contrary dirtying our hands with the problem of organisation. We must
also dirty our hands by fighting over the popular terrains media,
cyberspace that Badiou, at his high-handed worst, is wont to a prior
dismiss. What we're seeing now is perhaps the end of a sequence that
began, not in 1979, but in 1976. As Andy Beckett points out in his
enthralling and expansive study of the 70s, When The Lights Went Out,
it was in 1976, that Callaghan under pressure from the neo-liberal IMF
first introduced the Labour Party to capitalist realism with that
notorious Blackpool speech. "At the time, "I called the change of
attitude the New Realism," Peter Jay, the main architect of
Callaghan's fateful speech told Beckett. "Later, Thatcher used that
phrase quite a lot." What would have happened if Callaghan's Labour
had managed to capitalise on capitalist realism a little more
effectively? That is one of the many 'what ifs' which haunt Beckett's
book, many of whose chapters read like treatments for David Peace
novels. There were many pivotal moments: the bitter Grunwick dispute
as preach of the Miners' Strike (with strikebreakers coordinating a
defeat of the postal blockade, prompting one aghast witness to note,
"It made us all realize at the time that when the working man was
striking, how much was engineered against him"); the vote of
confidence in Callaghan's government, lost by only one, leading to the
historic election of 79, which was actually far closer than the myths
of the nearest would have us believe. Or perhaps the sequence which
we're seeing limp towards its grim terminus goes back even further, to
the beginnings of the twentieth century, and the formation of the
Labour Party itself. New Labour's years in power have done more than
superficially change the party's image, they have returned us to the
conditions of the late nineteenth century when the working class had
no representation in parliament at all. At this point, and for a
number of resons, it's worth reminding ourselves of Badiou's argument
that the left's subsumption into capitalist parliamentarianism cannon
be understood using the category of individual moral 'corruption':
What is habitually underestimated and this might be the defining
illusion of all entryists, all would-be reformers who believe that
they can change management from within is the power of structure to
generate subjectivity. If Callaghan could invariably, even in the most
stressful moments of his immensely stressful premiership, come across
as 'Sunny Jim', it was because he was never under many illusions. He
was built for (and from) compromise. He accepted disappointment from
the start rather like the Freud who thought the point of
psychoanalysis was to deliver patients from excruciating mental agony
to 'ordinary misery', Callaghan believed that in politics there were
only bad and worse decisions. Yet what counted as 'realism' for
Callaghan was partly conditioned by forces outside the parliamentary
machine and the financial system so too, for Thatcher in her first
term, when she backed down to the unions. Now, outside parliament and
finance, there is a discontent without focus or organisation: not
necessarily a bad thing, if, as I believe it will, it leads to new
forms of organisation. But in the meantime, the Nazis will profit, not
thank goodness for small mercies by increasing their vote but by
holding onto it while the Labour vote disintegrates. Grotesquely, the
Nazis can present themselves as the actual alternative to an
endofhistory consensus which has eliminated all alterity; and every
howl of abhorrence from inside the mediaparliamentary machine risks
further feeding their outsider allure. In the New Statesman two years
ago, Martin Bright summoned Callaghan's spectre. "The ghost of
Callaghan hovers over Gordon Brown and those around him," Bright
wrote; the parallel then was between Callaghan's failure to call an
election in 1978, at a time when the goverment was recovering after
the sterling crisis and the IMF debacle and before the Winter Of
Discontent, and Brown's similar dithering when he took office. Brown
will surely always be haunted by that failure to call an election in
the very brief window of time when he might have won one but all such
conjectures belong to another world, another era. We're in a different
time now, but one without any heralds there is no equivalent of
Thatcher ready to lay claim to these new times. "There's a worldwide
revolt against big government," excessive taxation," said Thatcher on
May 1, 1979. "An era is drawing to a close.. At first... people said,
'Oh, you've moved from the centre.' But then opinion began to move
too, as the heresies of one period became, as they always do, the
orthodoxies of the next... It's said that there is one thing stronger
than armies, and that is an idea whose time has come." But our time
awaits its idea. It seems as if we are tumbling and stumbling back
towards a version of Callaghan's era, living through a negative
1979... tumbling and stumbling out through a political-economic event
horizon that marks the end of neoliberalism (which now fits Nick
Land's description of cybergothic postmodern power: "it's dead, but it
carries on") ... with national bankruptcy looming, as it did in 76...
and chaos and the Right looming as they were then.... but this time
unopposed by any organised labour or a credible hard left ... And the
grandfather Callaghan, chirpy and selfpossessed, rarely depressed,
even amidst the Winter of Discontent that would bring him down, could
not strike a greater contrast with the morose Brown, a resentful
Richard who carries a wintry discontent with him always, on his heavy
brows. For Callaghan stood only at what he thought would be a moment
of painful transition for the Labour party, whereas Brown looks like
the mortified personification of the final death of the labour
movement itself. I feel satisfied that my analysis of Brown a year ago
has been vindicated. For a very brief time, in the immediate moment of
sick shock when it became clear that the Blair Boom was definitively
over, never to return, it seemed that Brown might, for once, have been
the right man for these wrong times. His glower and gravity allowed
him to be mediaanointed for his preferred role of global statesman, "a
serious man for serious times". The glower was real enough, but the
gravity, like so much about Brown, was only a simulation, and an
unconvincing one, an effect not of moral seriousness, but of the
ponderous, painful heaviness which is the ineradicable signature of
Brown's antistyle, a residue of wrongness which stains his every
gesture, his every move, his every smile. Now Brown must know that he
will never be free of Tony's joker hysterical face; Blair's timing
turned out to be immaculate, holding onto power for what it is now
clear was just the right amount of time, leaving Gordon with the most
poisoned of chalices... the cup of bad cheer for the dwarf at the end
of history... with Tony laughing and smiling forever... As for the
Nazis, Sarah dictum is completely right: it's not time "that the BNPs
arguments must be addressed", it's time, instead, that we focused on
the real roots of the Nazi support, not in some alleged
spontaneouslyoccurring working class racism, but in "[a] popular media
which propagates a constant sense of hostility and anxiety towards
nonwhite, non-christian groups, and a government which derives its
idea of consensus from the opinion pages of the press and vomits up
the rhetoric of fear and hate." As Sunny fundal added in The Guardian:
"our media tell people every day that their crumbling infrastructure
is the fault of those dastardly asylum seekers (rather than lack of
investment, which might mean higher taxes). Immigration wouldn't be
such a big issue if local councils presented information more quickly
about population movements, so resources could be poured in or taken
out in response, ensuring local public services didn't suffer."
"This," kendall adds in a moment of massive understatement, "is also a
result of the lack of investment in social housing." One of the most
despicable tricks that New Labour has pulled is its collusion with the
antiimmigration agenda, which has provided a smokescreen for the
party's failure to provide local services and council houses. Exploit
cheap immigrant labour in order to keep wages down, and play dead
while the popular media blame immigrants for 'taking all the council
houses' which I can assure you, many working class people really do
believe is the case. Why wouldn't they, since this is the relentless
message they are getting from the mainstream media, a message that is
rarely if ever emphatically contradicted by a mainstream parliamentary
politician? It's a good job that the working class are not the
inveterate racists that many of their patronising 'betters' in the
middle class believe them to be, or they would have been voting for
the Nazis in their millions, not in their hundreds of thousands. Here
we are, in our new zero, reverse 79, and it's not only the extra-
parliamentary force of organised labour that is lacking. What is also
missing is the prepolitical, antiprotest dysphagia that provoked punk
and postpunk; or rather, the dysphagia may exist, but it has not yet
found forms of articulation that can differentiate it from the
cynicism proper to the capitalist parliamentary spectacle. In their
empty administrative acquistivism, MPs reflect back to the voters the
realism which they claim is imposed upon them by those selfsame
voters. "Worldly realism," writes Dominic in Cold World knows nothing
of truth; it is wholly absorbed in deliberating between greater and
lesser 'evils', which is to say that it moves entirely within
corruption, employing corrupt means in the pursuit of corrupt ends.
Such are the 'mechanisms of power' with which we are encouraged to
acquaint ourselves. The cold world is the world in which these
mechanisms are shown to be incapable of upholding a truth, but to
operate rather through a kind of generalised power of falsity." Now we
have only the "generalised power of falsity" exposed for what it is...
but there is no cold world to see it from, only the collapsed kingdom
of lies, in ruin and dereliction, with scowling Gordon at the battered
battlements, and the Nazis warming their hands inside the citadel...
And there are some of us, aren't there, who are ... nothing, who are
so labile that we astound ourselves. We're the chameleons. I read a
story once about a poet who bathed himself in cold fountains so that
he could tell he actually existed from the pain of it. [...] People
like that, they can't feel anything inside them: no pleasure or pain,
no love or hate. They're ashamed and frightened that they can't feel,
and their shame, this shame, [....] drives them to extravagance and
colour. They have to feel that cold water. Without it, they're
nothing. The world sees them as showmen, fantastists, liars, as
sensualist perhaps, not for what they are: the living dead. Listening
to Radio 4's adaptation of le Carr's curious A Murder Of Quality (part
of the station's dramatise all of the George Smiley books, and one of
the Smiley books I hadn't previously read), I was struck by how much
that Smiley belongs in dominic Fox's Cold World. Set in a public
school, A Murder Of Quality sees le carry (re)turning to the setting
and structure of an Agatha Christie whodunnit. The teaming of the
erudite Smiley with his local bobby sidekick could be a dry run for
the partnership of the posturing Morse and the dullbutloyal Lewis,
although even in a novel as unsure of itself as A Murder Of Quality
is, Smiley has a casual depth, a grandeur of subdued sadness and quiet
intelligence, which Dexter, for all his puffing and panting, could
never imbue the windbag snob Morse with. I say that Smiley belongs in
the Cold World, but that isn't quite right. Smiley, rather, is always
drawn back into the Cold World; it's the place of work which he
ostensibly abjures, which he officially wants to be free from, but
where he actually spends most of his life. It's there he confronts his
enemies and neardoppelgangers, those who "are nothing", and who
therefore dwell forever in the half-life of the Cold World: later,
this will be Bill Haydon and Karla, but in A Murder Of Quality it is
the compromised master Fielding. Smiley: always retiring, always drawn
back into the permafrost from his lifeworld which in any case is cold
enough, with the very visible absence of Lady Ann, ("Ann isn't living
here at the moment"), the Guinevere to his alwaysailing Arthur, the
constant cuckold'shorn sign of his lack. For Smiley, evidently, the
Cold World is usually the noman's land of the Cold War (le carry will
return to the Cold War in his next novel, the one that will prove to
be his breakthrough, The Spy Who Came In From The Cold), and the
disappearance of the Cold War background is one of the "oddnesses" a
word that is repeated in the novel of A Murder Of Quality. The school,
as you'd expect of such claustrophobic cloisters, is actually a rather
overheated place, with le carry offering a bitter take on the
lateFifties class condescension and resentments. Yet amidst all this
passion and anger there is the cold discontent of Fielding, and it is
in his outbursts (against the futility of reproducing the mediocrity
of the ruling class, for instance) that the Radio 4 play achieved its
moments of greatest vividness, existential maladptation darkly flaring
against the creaking whodunnit scenery. Dysphoria, I'm inclined to
think, is le Carr's real subject. Note the slide, in the quotation
above, from first-person identification "there are some of us" to
third-person disavowal "they are ashamed and frightened that they
can't feel". Unlike Fielding, Smiley is no dysphoric by (un)natural
inclination, but dysphagia is an occupational hazard to which he so
labile, so chameonlike, so at home in the zone where noone warm and
full can be at home is far from immune. Two tremendous posts by
ZoneStyxTravelcard and the resurgent Impostume, which demand some sort
of response. First off, Zone: he is absolutely right that the dominant
emotion in mainstream media, cramped by shrinking wordcounts,
harrassed by demographics, worried that attention might wander, is
fear. It's fear unspoken but ubiquitous that enforces the
cheerycynical tone that has been so much a part of the background
muzak of the nu50s. And Zone is right about the Lily Allen single,
which sounds like everything St Etienne sought to achieve, but never
quite managed. Fear was practically palpable in/ behind Allen's
television series, which with its couture tieins, its wooden failings
at 'interactivity' summed up everything wretched about this decade's
culture: the drab hedonic conservatism, the perpetually perky
unpopular populism, so desperate to be liked by everyone that it
appeals to noone. "The Fear" gives voice to the ineradicable but
disavowed existential anxiety that hangs like a pall of forbidden
cigarette smoke behind all the dead parties and PR pseudoevents of is
CeleBritain, still listlessly persisting even though the Weimar/ boom
background has fallen away. In its own way "The Fear" is as bleak as
"Smells Like Teen Spirit". "Bubbelgum nihilism" was the phrase Simon
used of Dizzee's "Bonkers", and that captures something of "The
Fear"'s poise and despair, but the existential predicament that "The
Fear" articulates is ultimately more reminiscent of the Boy In Da
Corner Dizzee. Like much of Boy In Da Corner, "The Fear" is about a
youth reflexive impotence that it is itself paralysed by ("I am a
weapon of massive consumption/ it's not my fault/ it's how I'm
programmed to function"). All Allen can do is point to her own inertia
and complicity but awareness can only reinforce the very condition she
is talking about it's Nina's "onedimensional woman" morosely looking
into the mirror ("I'll take off my clothes and it will be shameless/
cos everyone knows that's how you become famous"). The verses are
unsure whether they want to be satire or not, unsure whether they want
to mock consumernihilism or celebrate it , unsure because after all
what's the alternative, where can all this mocked from? ("It's all
about fast cars/ and cursing each other" capitalist realism satirized
and exemplified.) Celebrity culture and its critique are coterminous;
the jeremias about its superficiality as cliched and empty as the
culture itself, both appearing on the same pages of LondonLite. Only
the negative capability of the choruses, only the admission of The
Fear, breaks out of this circuit. (Just briefly on the SY points: I
brought up Swans not to compare their whole career with that of
starbuck Youth, but simply to refute the idea that No Wave was some
deadend, entailing retreat. Swans' records up to 85 emphatically
demonstrated that wasn't the case. As for the starbuck question: the
claim that we shouldn't accept the 'individual responsibility' foisted
upon us by corporations is surely not equivalent to the claim that we
are absolved of responsibility for the way in which we shore up
corporations by consuming their products; it's precisely this impasse
which "The Fear" examines/ exemplifies, and which we have to think
beyond.) As for Carl's satirical remarks I refuse to take these as
anything other than a compliment, not even backhanded. Really, they
are about theory's power, not to generate culture, but to elucidate
and intensify it. What's interesting and this has a direct bearing on
some of the disputes about abstraction and the cc to which I will
return in a post that's been germinating ever since the fuel event is
the way in which Burial's music conducted affects and images so
powerfully, so lucidly, without the mediation of the (facialised,
biographical) individual or its selfunderstandings. (How different is
Burial's abstract art so painterly, so precise in the images it
produced to so much of what appears in galleries, with its
overthought, overconscious, language metarationales, while 'the work'
induces no ideas, no affects, at all.) My first post about Burial was
based on nothing more than a CDR, Kode9's press release and obsessive
listening, mostly done while walking the South London streets near to
where Carl himself lives. Walking and listening, listening and
walking, (music and walking, my psychotropics: walking is psychedelic,
as we said at the Gasworks londonunderlondon event), not being able to
listen to anything else, not being able to settle until I'd written
about it. (Contra the boring accusations not made by Carl needless to
say that I write about music from a dry and dedicated perspective,
this kind of method writing is the approach that I generally try to
adopt; sometimes, as in the case of Burial, there is no need to try,
it was a matter of being possessed, taken over by the music.) As I
think I said in that first post, Burial's was a music that I'd dreamt
of; or so it seemed: it immediately struck me as something familar.
Burial's music certainly felt like it came from the same city as
londonunderlondon and not because of anything so crassly causal as
influence, but because they'd both reached a Real of London. Often,
the signature of the Real in art is the sense that a landscape, a
terrain, has opened up that you feel you can move through either
literally or abstractly, sometimes both. ... And noone was more
surprised than me that Burial liked M R James. I literally could not
have made that up, (nor would have done, surely, if I actually was
trying to run a scam).(or, FROM post-punk TO RESTORATION) April with
2009 This text was written as an exploration/ exploration of some of
the concepts/ inspirations at work/ play in/ behind Michael
Wilkinson's show at the Modern Institute in Glasgow, Lions After
Slumber. The text includes some materials remixed from this site, but
not so many that it is redundant to post it here.The music is
obviously integral to the piece. At Glasgow, I tried to apply some of
the lessons I learned from the Gasworks londonunderlondon event.
Playing the tracks at high volume and demanding that people listen to
them collectively as if, as someone in Glasgow put it, they were at "a
post-punk prayer meeting" produced a unique atmosphere, both
disrupting the standard mode of casual socialising and interrupting
for a while the digital twitch of matrix 2.0 and its perpetual
attentiondrift. I'd never heard "Don't Sell Your Dreams" played so
loud; it seemed like a completely different track. Which made me think
(again) that rather than the ATP model of having the ageing group play
'classic albums' live onstage, why not gather people together and just
play the actual album on a massive soundsystem? The same thing
occurred to me watching the Joy division documentary: I suddenly
realised that I'd never before had the opportunity to hear Joy
Divsion's tracks played that loud. Play DON'T SELL YOUR DREAMS by The
Pop groupware 1: DONT SELL YOUR DREAMS How could a sound like this
ever have been made? A whole secret history of the with century is
generically compressed into this lugubrious, delirious sonic
anarchitectureThis incandescent condensation of Stockhausen, Duchamp,
KingTubby, Albert Ayler, Guy Debord Amazing that it was work of
teenagers and yet was there ever a sound which channelled the inchoate
intensities of a certain kind of teenage overreaching better than
this? A polymorphous punkfunkadelia predeconstructed by dub, flirting
with collapse and chaos, so close to stasis and ennui, so gauche, but
in its very gaucherie, in its refusal of embarrassment, a euphoric
shattering of the social the name of a dream collectivity, a dreaming
we, a dreamed wand not skulking on the margins, but exploding in the
heart of the commodity. On the front of the NME. 1979 a different
world. What kind of voice is this? You couldnt call it singing. It
makes you think, instead, of Artaud howling against the straitjaketing
of his body without organs at the asylum at Rodez.It incants, it
chants speaks in slogans makes a demand for the impossible, the only
kind of demand worth making. A demand that is not addressed to the big
Other, but which precisely presupposes the destruction of the Symbolic
order. Well kill the world passion for the real. That old twentieth
century dream.It is an injunction, an interpellation, addressed to
you, just as advertising is.Dont sell your dreams It is addressed to
another you, not the placeholder self that you that you often mistake
yourself for. Not that dupedoppelganger embedded in the social
networks, but something else.Something you see only in shattered
mirrors.Something abandoned, betrayed.And betrayal is always a matter
of forgetting, and then forgetting that you have forgotten.The perfect
crime. radio explains: Betrayal is not mere renunciation.
Unfortunately, one cannon simply renounce a truth. The denial of the
Immortal in myself is something quite different from an abandonment, a
cessatation: I must convince myself that the Immortal never existed,
and thus rally to opinions perception of this point opinion, whose
sole purpose, in the service of interests, is precisely this negation.
(E 79) How, under the tyranny of ceaselessly circulating opinion, How
are we We who are not a we How are we to hear this now? How can were
who can no longer be a who instead identify with the I of
interactivityWho circulate in spaces, which no matter how populous,
are always only ever MySpace,How do whose dreams already come to us
trademarkedWhose every desire has been preformatted by capitalHow do
we respond to this? With the condescension of good sense, the maturity
of proper adjustment? agenda Zupancic tries to wake us up. 'The
reality principle is not some kind of natural way associated with how
things are, to which sublimation would oppose itself in the name of
some Idea. The reality principle itself is ideologically mediated; one
could even claim that it constitutes the highest form of ideology, the
ideology that presents itself as empirical fact (or biological,
economic...) necessity (and that we tend to perceive as
nonideological). It is precisely here that we should be most alert to
the functioning of ideology.' PART 2: WHICH WAY IS UP? Place Vendme,
Paris. 1871. The Communards pose with the toppled statue of Napoleon.
When Michael Wilkinson turns the image on its side, it looks now as if
the statue is upright and the crowd are dead, laid out in coffins. The
world turned the right way up again.Except that we can now see that
there is no right way up.Antagonism is constitutive of the
social.Either the emperor stands upright , and the people are dead.Or
the people stand upright, and the emperor is dead. PART 3: caliban ART
Of course there is more at stake in the image of hanging, unspoiled
tape than that the end of analogue, of a certain regime of
materiality. The tangling of time.The unsporting of history. The
rejection of aesthetics, albeit in the form of an aesthetic gesture.
But isnt what is terrifying about the caliban precisely their
rejection of postmodern capitals compulsory aestheticisation, its
triumphaldeflationist reduction of all beliefs to artefacts in the end
of history museum? Theirs is the terror of the Real; the terror of a
belief that refuses to become culture, that will not reduce into a
language game. In another sense, though, isnt this modelling of the
Real, this version of belief, this account of Terror, already
incorporated into the end of history DVD? Here, the caliban play a
very different role to the one they played in the Cold War movie.They
are Bond villains with very real blood. Behold the believer, behold
the fanatic.Commit yourself, dare to believe, and you become this.
Opinion tells me (and therefore I tell myself, for I am never fully
outside opinion, that my fidelity may well be terror exerted against
myself, and that the fidelity to which I am faithful looks very much
like too much like this or that certified Evil. And then .And thankyou
will be bombed back into scepticism. PART 4: KNOWLEDGE AND INTERESTS
February 2009. The end of history plus twenty years.Everything is as
it should be. All is right with the world. The emperor has been stood
back on his feet again for a long time.Various post-punk types,
including Tom Morley of Scritti Politti and Viv Albertine of The
Slits, are arranged on stage. They are here to discuss Simon Reynoldss
book, Totally Wired: post-punk Interviews And Overviews, the follow-up
to his book, Rip It Up And Start Again.An alternative title that
Reynolds considered for Rip It Up And Start Again was Dont Sell Your
Dreams. Morley retains his dreadlocks, but he now uses his drums in
his business of corporate teambuilding. Albertine is excited by the
possibilities of releasing music on MySpace. They look slightly
bewildered, former lions who have lumbered so long that they have
forgotten that they were ever awake. Forgotten what it is to be awake.
They speak blearily, vaguelyAmnesiac talk about the strictures and
strictness of those times Terror and ascesisDogmatism and
disciplineThe supposed autocrats who imposed green Gartside, Mclaren,
WestwoodTough back whenever aspect of your life, your clothes, your
sexuality, under scrutinyYou couldnt be yourselfNow its OK to say that
you like Neil YoungAnything goes Then the music starts,And everyone
wakes up Play KNOWLEDGE AND INTERESTS by SCRITTI POLITTI Even in its
malformed messiness, even with all its soundpotholes and indecisions,
there is an icy lucidity to Scrittis music at this time. The time
being 1978.It is a laser cut through the end of history haze.Unlike
The Pop Group, there is nothing Dionysiac about Scritti.In fact, they
were possibly the least Dionysiac pop group ever. The methodology then
was improvisational, but the group didn't want anyone (least of all
themselves) to be under the illusion that it issued from some vitalis
wellspring of creativity. It was the sound of a collectivity thinking
(itself into existence) under and through material constraints.
Talking to Simon Reynolds five years ago, Green said:Its a kind of
scratching, collapsing, irritated, dissatisfied music. I was listening
to some music the other night, on 6 FM or whatever its called, BBC 6,
their alternative rock station, and I was struck by all the bands:
there was no trepidation. I had no sense that the bands were ever
playing with anything that they were slightly frightened of in
themselves or in the music. No sense that they were going anywhere
where they werent sure where they would end up. Reynolds replied: The
question to ask now is: how is this doubt beat, this negative
capability, different from blank postmodern scepticism, from the end
of historys circulation of infinitely reliable opinion? Because it is
a matter of questing as much as questioning exploring a new space
space that is under construction space that is a gap in the world A
puncture wound, described by agenda Zupancic: Sublimation is thus
related to ethics insofar as it is not entirely subordinated to the
reality principle, but liberates or creates a space from which it is
possible to attribute certain values to something other than the
recognized and established "common good." ... What is at stake is not
the act of replacing one "good" (or one value) with the same planetary
system of the reality principle. The creative act of sublimation is
not only a creation of some new good, but also (and principally) the
creation and maintenance of a certain space for objects that have no
place in the given, extant reality, objects that are considered
"impossible."' What was the 'beyond good and evil' of Scritti, the Pop
Group and the Raincoats if not the production of just such a space?
(As Lacan wryly notes, when we idly think of someone who is 'beyond
good and evil' we are liable to think of someone is merely beyond
'good'.) What on the one hand is an austere asceticism is at the same
time engineering of new forms of enjoyment. In flight from rock's
'condition of possibility', this undo (it) yourself pop puts into
question ALL conditions of possibility, and with them the very concept
of conditions of possibility. This is happening, now, but it can't be,
it's Impossible....It cant carry on, so the reality principle tells
us. And this time the reality principle will win. Play HYPNOTIZED by
MARK STEWART AND THE mafia PART 5: HYPNOTIZED Zizek: 'In postliberal
societies ... the agency of social repression no longer acts in the
guise of an internalized Law or Prohibition that requires renunciation
or selfcontrol; instead, it assumes the form of a hypnotic agency that
imposes the attitude of "yielding to temptation" that is to say, its
injunction amounts to a command: "Enjoy yourself!" Such an idiotic
enjoyment is dictated by the social environment which includes the
anglo-saxon psychoanalyst whose main goal is to render the patient
capable of "normal", "healthy" pleasures. Society requires us to fall
asleep into a hypnotic trance...' Lockdown. 1985. The veneer of
democracy fading on TV.Miners lined up against cops and
paramilitaries.The Miners represent history. A history that is about
to end.Their defeat will seal it.Its been planned for years. Capitals
agents consolidating the next phase.Call it postFordism,
neoliberalism, capitalist realism.. Its already underway.Capital has
solved the labour problem.So, in a sense, this is all for show. The
end of the world, the end of all our worlds.All of this will come
back(Everything comes back is the law of Web 2.0)It will come back,
but as its own simulationPut through special digital filters that give
it an even more aged appearance, and mark it as someone elses history.
But all history is someone elses history now.We are no longer partisan
antagonists.We have joined the debate.There are no spectators, because
we are all participants.Plugged in, testing our vote, paying
attention. Cut back to 1985. Mark Stewart, five years after the end of
The Pop Group.His sound now stiffened with an adamantium exocrine
imported from New York hip hop.He cuts up the tapes by hand,
increasing the distortion and abrasion.He crudely splices them
together again, but so that you can hear the joins.Burroughs citations
and Burroughs methodology.Simulating the noise of a polis acrid with
the smoke of antagonism.Alongside the decanted facts 7% of the
population own 84% of the wealth radio samples, ephemeral fragments of
longing, disco quotations Hypnotized is a sonic collage as antidote
song, a demystification in the spirit of Gang Of Fours Anthrax though
far less measured.Stewart is still howling from the outsideAgainst
domicile, domesticityAgainst the privatization of all space. Against
the prison of anothers eyes.Against capitals substitute for the
sacrament Heaven must be missing an angel Play HYPNOTIZE by Scritti
Politti I forget to believe in heaven, when I look at you girl First
of all, note the comparisons.Like Stewarts Maffia, the new
electroreinforced Scritti has a hard hip hop exoskeleton. It also is
not a love song so much as an examination of love, But what Green
inscribed is the Lacan lack of the lovers talk The love letters
necessarily left incomplete doesnt rail against romance from outside.
For Green now, back from a breakdown,totally reconstructed like his
music, there is no outside.Only a median band, an endless, seductive
surface to play with, unsettle and be unsettled by.From a concern with
the inverse interplay of the means of production and the production of
meaning to a revelling/ unravelling in meaninglessness. How could your
nothings be so sweet? All wordplay turns to non signifying honey in
Greens mouth, his voice now no longer cockney Robert Wyatt but
modelled on Michael jackson continual slide between two types of
NonSense: the nonsense of 'the lover's discourse', the
nurseryrhymelike reiteration of babytalk phrases that are devoid of
meaning, but which are nevertheless the most important utterances
people perform or hear; and also the nonsense of the voice as sound,
another kind of sweet nothing. Greens voice almost prevents you
hearing the lyrics except as senseless sonorous blocks, mechanically
repeated refrains. As opposed to Selfconsciousness, a 'reflexivity
without a self (not a bad name for the subject').' Only the void, the
voice and the signifying chain, unravelling forever in a shopping mall
of mirrors, a whispering gallery of sweet nothings... It was Paul
Oldfield, in his 1989 essay After Subversion: Pop Culture And Power,
who most effectively described Scrittis strategies at this time. It
may indeed have been hard for consumers to experience this as a
shaking of a subversive effect. Capital eats deconstruction for
breakfast. Greens hammer and possible pop doesnt even cause the
tungstencarbide stomach a moments indigestion. On the contrary
Specifically via its influence on Jam and Lewis's production of Janet
Jackson's epochal Control, but more generally through its
entrepreneurial intuition that the flesh and blood of (what was then
called) Soul could be sutured with hip hop's artificiality and
abstraction machine, Cupid & Psyche instituted a 'new paradigm' for
localized Pop. sank Bloc Bologna has become the Global retail arcade
of capital. Cupid & Psyche is chillingly impersonal, but in a way that
is much different to the staged impersonality of Kraftwerk, Numan and
Visage which fascinated black American hip hoppers, techno and house
pioneers in the early 80s. Has anyone ever been moved by Greens love
songs? Scritti's erasure of Soul goes by way of a neurotically
noteperfect, ultrafastidious simulation of a hyperAmericanised
'language of love'. It is no longer a matter of technical machines
versus real emotional beings, but of 'authentic emotion' as itself the
refraining of signifying and sonorous machines Narcissus in cyberspace
But the way had already been prepared. Play LIONS AFTER SLUMBER by
SCRITTI POLITTI PART 6: LIONS BEFORE SLUMBER In retrospect, Lions
After Slumber and the Songs To Remember album which succeeded it can
only be heard as templates for the Cupid & Psyche sound An learning of
the learning of pop way back in, Green strategising how a pop stripped
of experimentalism could still disturb narcissistic miscalculation, a
self-delusion more than an act of deliberated deception The Shelley
quotation at the end of this little relativist hymn is something of a
non sequitur.The invocation of collectivity, the unvanquishable
number, follows a litany, a list, which all begins with my.Could it
be, in fact, Lions After Slumber is not about rousing a collective,
but about duping and doping it back into somnambulism? Greens little
list as the heap of fragments that who are no longer a we Now are My
hope and my ice screamed tomorrow and my temperature lips and my
selfishness space Now no mirror you look in is shattered You find
yourself everywhere perfectly reflected You forget You have forgotten
Only a distorting mirror can wake you. Image via Gutterbreakz 1. Now a
dead battery "I used to go raves when I was younger, I went through
that whole explosion in electronic music from 1987 to around 199293
when it seemed like there was new genre every single week. It was an
amazing time in music to hear so many things happening and so many new
possibilities opening up and to see and feel the energy of new music
exploding on dancefloor and in clubs. I think The Death Of Rave is
about the loss in that spirit and a total loss of energy in most
electronic musics across the board. I feel sorry these days for people
when I go to clubs as that energy isn't there any more, it's different
energy now ..." James Kirby aka The Caretaker in The Wire this month.
2. Impenetrably arcane Gutterbreakz on Sapphire And Steel: "How
anything as impenetrably arcane as this could ever have been
considered mainstream family viewing remains one of the great
cherished mysteries of what we might call the 'Ghost Box era'." 3.
Nostalgia for modernism, again The discussion about nostalgia is
really becoming tiresome. As has already been argued here, here and
here, simply comparing the present unfavourably with the past is not
nostalgic in any culpable way. It is the tendency to falsely
overestimate the past that makes nostalgia egregious: but, one of the
lessons of Andy Beckett's superb When The Lights Went Out is that, in
many ways, we falsely underestimate a period like the is (Beckett in
effect shows that capitalist realism was built on a mythmonstering of
the decade). Conversely, we are induced by ubiquitous PR, whose blank,
joyless positivity has a crushingly depressing effect, even though (or
rather precisely because) noone believes it at the level of content
into falsely overestimating the present. The Caretaker's Theoretically
Pure Anterograde Amnesia echoes Jameson's remarks on postmodernity :
it is precisely the failure of historical awareness under pressure
from a cyberblitzing blip time that has no long term memory that leads
to the rise of nostalgia. Those who can't remember the past are
condemned to have it resold to them forever. But I say with total
confidence that the decade we've just lived through will be recognised
and not in the far distant future, but very soon as the worst period
for (popular) culture since the 1950s: a decadent, despondent dead
zone in which conformity was remanded in the media's lickspittle
jester prattle as 'light, upbeat, irreverent'. To reiterate (because
the point is germane not only to the architectural/ gatekeeper furore,
but also to the hardcore continuum and Sonic Youth discussions), and
to state what ought to be obvious : we are in a culture that is
formally nostalgic to an astonishing degree. In this present which is
so given over to pastiche, pointing to previous historical moments can
act as a resistance to pervasive, normalised nostalgia. The present is
not necessarily the modern; that is the postmodern condition reduced
to a formula. The correct perspective on the past in this respect can
only be got at by considering it as a rival (to the) present. Imagine
the two moments as competing presents, as it were laid out side by
side: which one would you choose? Which one contains the most
possibilities? And the past moment is not grasped if it is flattened
out to the collection of dead museum artefacts that the distorting
lens of retrospection reduces it to ("one day all that will be left of
it will be records"): no, to grasp that moment properly involves
considering the futures that it projected. tautology has always been
about those projected futures; and it is by comparison with those lost
virtual futures that the present must be judged harshly. But soon we
will no longer need the spectral guides any more. 4. SYmptoms. I said
I wouldn't write about Sonic Youth again, and I will try not to say
much more. But I can refer you to what others have written. And this,
from someone formerly of this parish: "I mean, sure, if you hit your
guitar with a drum stick once, or twice, it might be irruption/uproar,
formal surprize, but if you do it for 25 years ...? isn't it just
'avant garde' Status Quoism?" I can also clarify my objections. It is
not SY's being mainstream that irks me it is a perfectly honourable
aim to be "an explosion in the heart of the commodity", as the Pop
Group wanted to be it is their occupying a comfortable position of
hegemonic domination while disavowing it which seems to me
definitional of avantconservatism (a phrase that I have taken from
Frieze's Dan Fox). Could Sonic Youth's rocks devotees enjoy their
records in the same way without the belief that they are
'alternative'? Avantconservatism rests on an equivocation between
structural position and formal invention. Being 'alternative' in the
way that Sonic Youth now are is a structural position, essentially a
marketing category; it bears no relation to formal inventiveness. For
if SY's ye olde formal inventions qualify them as avant-garde in 2009,
then what is to disallow anything on the rock nostalgia circuit from
making the same claim it, too, was new once. (cf Joe Stannard's
sympathetic but seemingly deeply dissatisfied review of The Eternal in
The Wire this month, which practically sighs with frustration at SY's
enervation.) 5. Hate's not your enemy, love's your enemy Zone is quite
right that Lydon's scrawling of "I Hate" onto a Pink Floyd shirt was
"the definitive punk gesture in the way it hijack a readymade,
defacing and desecrating a complacently commodities consensus." But it
was the desecration of the consensus within the counterculture that
was crucial. Avantconservatism, not the mainstream, is always the
proper object of any counter-cultural revolt. What has to be
continually incinerated is precisely this space of comfortable
opposition to the mainstream. Rotten's gesture was all the powerful if
Lydon the biographical individual actually at some point liked and
respected Pink Floyd. To desecrate something not in spite of the fact
that it is 'good' but precisely because it is 'good', to destroy the
settled consensus about how value is assigned, to scorch all earths,
this was punk's nihilative impetus, its traumatic opening up of a
space beyond good evil something that is far more alien to our
restoration world ("would you like a Sonic Youth CD with your
frappucino, sir?") than it was to 1976. 6. Hurry up please, it's time.
But the restoration world is finished even though, like the father in
the dream recounted by Freud, it does not yet know it is dead. Ladies
and gentlemen, can't you see that the restoration scenery around you
is just dust and pasteboard? It's coming apart in clumps. The OedIPod,
once the supremely secure means by which all outsides were transformed
into the inside, is cracked open. And we who have been guided across
the desert by ghosts crouch like commandos amidst the ideological
rubble of the new Year Zero... At the European Business Ethics Network
UK conference last month at which I was lucky enough to be a keynote
speaker (I will post up the presentation that I gave there very soon)
Campbell Jones gave a paper entitled "The Subject Supposed To
Recycle". In posing the question, who is the subject supposed to
recycle? Campbell was naturalising an imperative that is now so taken
for granted that resisting it seems senseless, never mind unethical.
Everyone is supposed to recycle; noone, whatever their political
persuasion, ought to resist this injunction. The demand that we
recycle is precisely posited as a pre or postidelogical imperative; in
other words, it is positioned in precisely the space where ideology
always does its work. But the subject supposed to recycle, campbell
argued, presupposed the structure not supposed to recycle: in making
recycling the responsibility of 'everyone', structure contracts out
its responsibility to consumers, by itself receding into invisibility.
The discussion after Campbell's paper turned on the question of agency
since "corporations are made up of individuals" doesn't this mean that
there is always hope for change? But it seems to me that "individual"
is best defined as one incapable of acting. I would suggest that, at
this time when the appeal to individual ethical responsibility has
never been more clamorous in her new book, Judith Butler Frames Of War
uses the term "responsibilization" to refer to this phenomenon it is
necessary to wager instead on structure at its most totalizing.
Instead of saying that everyone i.e. every one is responsible for
climate change, we all have to do our bit, it would be better to say
that noone is, and that's the very problem. The cause of
ecocatastrophe is an impersonal structure which, even though it is
capable of producing all manner of effects, is precisely not a subject
capable of exercising responsibility. The required subject a
collective subject does not exist, yet the crisis, like all the other
global crises we're now facing, demands that it be constructed. Yet
the appeal to ethical immediacy that has been in place since at least
1985 when the consensual sentimentality of Live Aid replaced the
antagonism of the Miners Strike permanently defers the emergence of
such a subject. Similar issues were touched on in Armin Beverungen's
paper on The Parallax View. Armin saw Pakula's film as providing a
kind of diagram of the way in which a certain model of (business)
ethics goes wrong. For The Parallax View is in a sense a
metaconspiracy film: a film not only about conspiracies but about the
impotence of attempts to uncover them; or, much worse than that, about
the way in which particular kinds of investigation feed the very
conspiracies they intend to uncover. The Parallax View came to my mind
frequently when watching the Red Riding films, and all three could be
seen as compulsions to repeat Pakula's film. 1983's apparently
redemptive coda might have constituted a failure of nerve, but 1974
and 1980 iteratively traced the circuit of fatality which The Parallax
View described with such grim elegance. It was perhaps 1974 with its
brutalism backdrops, and swaggering journorebel protagonist ultimately
framed for the very crime he is investigating that most echoed
Pakula's film (appropriately since 1974 was the year in which not only
The Parallax View, but also The Conversation and Chinatown were
released). Yet none of the Red Riding films achieved quite the
satisfying horror that The Parallax View reached at its moment of
bleak closure. It's not only that the Beatty character is
framed/killed for the crime he is investigating, neatly eliminating
him and undermining his investigations with one pull of a corporate
assassins trigger; it's that, as Jameson noted in his commentary on
the film in The Geopolitical Aesthetic his very tenacity,
quasisociopathic individualism make him eminently frameable. The
terrifying climactic moment of The Parallax View* the silhouette of
Beatty's anonymous assassin against migraine white space for me now
rhymes with the open door at the end of a very different film, The
Truman Show. But where the door in the horizon opening onto black
space at the end of Weir's film connotes a break in a universe of
total determinism, the nothingness on which existentialist freedom
depends, The Parallax View's final "open door ... opens onto a world
conspiratorially organized and controlled as far as the eye can see"
(Jameson). This anonymous figure with a rifle in a doorway is the
closest we get to seeing the conspiracy (as) itself. The conspiracy in
The Parallax View never gives any account of itself. It is never
localised through a single malign individual (compare, for instance,
the grandstanding justification given by Richard Widmark's hospital
administrator at the end of Michael Crichton's Coma, or even the
opening scene of 1983, with perejouissance Bill Molloy holding court).
Although presumably corporate, the interests and motives of the
conspiracy in The Parallax View are never articulated (perhaps not
even to or by those actually involved in it.) Who knows what the
Parallax Corporation really wants? It is itself situated in the
parallax between politics and economy; is it a commercial front for
political interests, or is the whole machinery of government a front
for it? It's not clear if the Corporation really exists more than
that, it's not clear if its aim is to pretend that it doesn't exist,
or to pretend that it does. As Jameson observes, what paula captures
so well in The Parallax View is a particular kind of corporate
affective tonality: ... without any consequences for the individual
villains... How that phrase resonates just now after Hillsborough
(whose grisly catalogue of police incompetence, malice and mendacity
was exhumed again recently because of the twenty year anniversary),
after Jean Charles De Menezes, after Ian Tomlinson, after the banking
fiasco. And what Jameson is describing here is the fortifying cocoon
of corporate structure which deaden as it protects, which hollows out,
absents, the manager, ensures that their attention is always
displaced, ensures that they cannon listen. The haunting power of
David Morrissey's rendering of Maurice Jobson in the Red Riding films
came from the way that he caught that abstracted corrupt/ corporate
blankness just so. The delusion that many who enter into management
with high hopes is precisely that they, the individual, can change
things, that they will not repeat what their managers had done, that
things will be different this time; but watch someone step up into
management and it's usually not very long before the grey
petrification of power starts to subsume them. It's here that
structure is palpable you can practically see it taking people over,
hear its deadened/ deadening judgements speaking through them. And
surely we have all felt the effects of structure whenever we assume a
socalled position of responsibility: we immediately find ourselves
secondguessing our responses, anxiously concerned about whether we are
doing what It wants, never sure if we are measuring up... But we
shouldn't rush to impose the individual ethical responsibility that
the corporate structure deflects. This is the temptation of the
ethical which, as cizek suggested at the Birkbeck Communism
conference, the system is using in order to protect itself the blame
will be put on supposedly pathological individuals, those 'abusing the
system' (and then deflected onto other targets altogether) rather than
the system itself. But the evasion is actually a two-step procedure
since structure will often be invoked (either implicitly or openly)
precisely at the point when there is the possibility of corporate
individuals being punished. At this point, suddenly, the causes of
abuse or atrocity are so systemic, so diffuse, that no individual can
be held responsible. And now we are back at Hillsborough and the Jean
Charles De meneses farce, with the individual policemen walking free.
But this impasse it is only individuals that can be held ethically
responsible for actions, and yet the cause of these abuses and errors
was corporate, systemic is not only a dissimulation: it precisely
indicates what is lacking in capitalism. What agencies are capable of
regulating and controlling impersonal structures? How is it possible
to chastise a corporate structure? Yes, corporations can legally be
treated as individuals but the problem is that corporations, whilst
certainly entities, are not like individual humans, and any analogy
between punishing corporations and punishing individuals will
therefore necessarily be poor. And it is not as if corporations are
the deeplevel agents behind everything; they are themselves
constrained by/ expressions of the ultimate causethatisnotasubject
capital. Let's be in no doubt. There are certainly conspiracies. I've
been a victim of one in the workplace (1980 made for uncomfortable
viewing, not least at the moment of reversal when Hunter, the man
charged with investigating corruption, suddenly finds himself the
object of a counterinvestigation but at least I only lost my job, I
didn't get my house burned down or get shot, for which I suppose I
should be grateful). But the issue with conspiracies under capitalism
is: does anyone really think it would be better if we replaced the
whole managerial and banking class with a whole new set of ('better')
people? Surely it is evident that the vices are engendered by the
structure, which is one reason that Marxism is preferable to any moral
critiques of capitalism. We also need to ask how it is that particular
conspiracies can be successful. Current conditions favour conspiracy
as Nick Davies shows in Flat Earth News the media, rather than
uncovering conspiracy (as mythologies in Pakula's All The President's
Men), now tend instead to obediently propagate whatever PR hype they
are fed. Which is why we should take a step back and ponder why it is
at this precise moment that the stories about MPs' expenses have
emerged. M John Harrison suggests that the 'uncovering' of the
irregularities in MPs' expenses is not the result of intrepid
investigative reporting, but is a (successful) attempt at news
management: cover-up in the guise of revelation. The bankers stole
more. They didnt fiddle a meagre 10,000 here & there. They got away,
personally, with fortunes. They didnt fiddle a mortgage; they fiddled
millions of mortgages & then collected 7 or 8 million in pensions as
their price for leaving the institutions they had wrecked. They got
the taxpayer to pay them to go. How is that not stealing the taxpayers
money ? Paying MPs is a form of public spending. When we are stupid
enough to vote the Tories back in, our rage against MPs will be
redirected by them on to every other form of public spending. The
bankers will get away with it. The blow that should have fallen on
them will be received instead by a handful of hapless prats who got
their fingers in the petty cash. Result. Our frustration with the
bankers, our rage against the recession they caused, will be focussed
on that arch enemy of Toryism, public spending. Because MPs have been
shown to be corrupt, all public services will be blackened by
association, then cut: it will seem perfectly logical. The
disadvantaged, their ranks swelled by hundreds of thousands of victims
of the bankers, will be punished for the sins of the advantaged. As
usual, ordinary people will be deftly turned into their own enemies.
Fantastically elegant politics. OK, this is the last thing I'm going
to post on Sonic Youth there are so many more interesting things to
write about just now. But I must take up some of the issues raised by
Zone's reply. I'd also like to draw people's attention to Marcello's
interesting remarks on SY (which are particularly good in relation to
my improvprovocations). Zone's attempt to psychopathologise my
SYdisdain, to attribute it to the loathing only a double can provoke,
would be more convincing if it weren't based on SY and I "sharing an
admiration for whole swathes of postpunk, pop, and modernism low and
high (Burroughs, P. K. Dick, William Gibson, Joyce, The Carpenters
etc)." The list is hardly specific to either SY or me; rather, it
enumerates preferences that are practically ubiquitous amongst people
of a certain age with 'countercultural' sympathies. If he'd included
John fox and Visage in the list, I might have been persuaded.
(Incidentally, while we're on electronic music: my point was not that
electronic music is immune to entropy a claim that would undercut
everything I've written about tautology and the argument I made in New
Statesman only last week. The point, rather, was that electronic music
is not tied to a romanticism of youth in the way that rock is so that
Kraftwerk in their is does not produce the same frisson of
grotesquerie that the geriatric Stones and Stooges do.) Contra what
Seb in Zone's comments suggests ("I'm ... glad to see someone cook up
a convincing explanation of KPunk's oddly intense enmity towards SY"),
it's not my hostility towards SY that requires explanation it's SY's
hegemonic support that needs to be accounted for. But I think that
this characterisation of my response tells its own story. If a group
were genuinely challenging and experimental, "oddly intense emnity"
would surely be expected from some quarters. But the point is that
noone, even their own supporters, really expects SY to provoke any
sort of strong affect at all, just elicit a bland admiration. They're
on our side, they're good sorts. And the fact is, it is indeed
difficult to summon up any affect for them. The enmity is a second-
order response to my first order action, which is one of boredom. (A
boredom that I strongly suspect is shared by even their most ardent
fan could such a fan sincerely claim that the thought do we really
need another Sonic Youth record? has never come to mind?) This
renormalization of boredom, this re-establishment of consensus around
'accepted standards', is precisely what is so pernicious about Sonic
Youth now. They represent the embourgeoisement of the rock avantgarde,
its disconnection from overreaching, intemperance, intolerance and
antagonism. "Sonic Youth are banished from mainstream taste forever,"
Zone argues. "Kim Gordon in growl mode, the abstractexpressionist
noise breaks, performance artists Bob Flanagan and Sherry Rose wiping
their arses with stuffed toys on Dirty's artwork." But Zone's inverted
commas around 'mainstream' are entirely necessary for the idea there
is a mainstream which repudiates Sonic Youth is the fundamental
(rockist) fantasy which feeds their allure. Kim Gordon in New
Statesman last week: "Are Sonic Youth political? Well, they are, in
that they offer an alternative to mainstream music." Well, they may
not have hit singles (but neither did the prog dinosaurs of the 70s);
but here they are on Later With Jools Holland; here they are doing
compilations for Starbucks; here they are, the darlings of the
broadsheet press, their pasticheofthemselves records not exactly
guaranteed a good review, but always automatically accorded event
status. In what way is the so called mainstream perturbed by any of
this? In what way, in the decentred era of web 2.0, is this not the
mainstream? Their avant credentials rest on a few hoary old formal
innovations just as the prog rockers' did in the early 70s. SY have
disconnected experimentalism from social and existential
maladjustment, just as prog rock did. But while punk annihilated prog
after a mere half a decade of flatulent complacency, Sonic Youth are
still lauded as counter-cultural heroes even though they have been
making variations on the same record for over twenty years now. SY's
precise function for Restoration culture is to be a hypervisible
simulation of an alternative within the mainstream. That is why Juno
provides such a depressingly accurate picture of certain impasse in US
alt.rock culture: a supposedly smart alt.teen (not so smart that she
avoids getting pregnant, though) as poster girl for reproductive
futurism, giving up her child to babycrazed professional, whose
husband a failed rocker now miserably writing advertising jingles
turns her onto Sonic Youth. The fact that Juno who is into Patti Smith
and The Stooges has mysteriously not heard of Sonic Youth is the key
to their fantasy positioning. When she falls out with the husband,
Juno says that she "bought another Sonic Youth CD and it's just noise"
at this point, everyone's happy: SY are namechecked in an
indiemainstream commodity, but posited as something that is ultimately
too extreme. There is no more stultifying mode of cultural
conservatism than this avantconservatism. SY's popularity provides
another angle on the hipster debate from last year. As Ray Brassier,
someone who shares my dismay and disappointment about SY's
preeminence, puts it (via email): Seb wonders how I can I'd reverse
this question: how can anyone exposed to the bilious
schizointractability of The Fall, the phantasmagoria derangement of
The Pop Group or the spasmodic abjection of The Birthday Party
possibly lower their expectations such that they are satisfied with
what Ray calls the "tepid, flannelly, terminally involving college
altrock" of Sonic Youth? What's at stake here is the very difference
between pulp modernism and postmodernism. The Birthday Party, The Pop
Group, The Fall up to 1983, were all impelled by the conviction that
the only way in which rock could continue to justify its existence was
by perpetually reinventing itself; they were deathdriven forward by a
nihilative motor which wouldn't allow them to resemble anything
preexisting, even themselves: never settle, never repeat yourself,
never give the audience what they want, were the unwritten maxims
inducing them into further convulsions. It's easy to forget now, after
Smith and Cave's Sunday supplement canonisation, how divisive this
music was, how it engendered revulsion and denunciation as much as
adoration, how it shattered any senses communis. And then there is the
Vision thing: listening to The Fall, The Birthday Party and The Pop
Group, you tuned into a unique way of seeing the world whereas SY
offer only a bleary, weary confection of familiar alt.rock postures
and signifiers. Importantly, also: The Fall, The Pop Group and The
Birthday Party kept the Sixties behind them. (It's not a coincidence
that the moment that The Fall started faltering was marked by a
Stooges' citation: the hijacking of the "I Wanna Be Your Dog" bassline
in Wonderful And Frightening World's "Elves".) Punk and postpunk's
significance was to have overcome the Sixties, to have fingered the
Sixties as the problem, whereas SY, with their even handedness and
informed good taste, re-established a continuum between punk and the
Sixties, mending the bridges that punk had incinerated. It's true that
my view of is SY is to some extent a retrospective judgement,
intensified by the fatigue that their slogging on and on has produced.
For a while, I did dutifully go along with the idea that Sonic Youth
mattered, until I had to admit to myself that they completely left me
cold. I sold all my Sonic Youth records bar Death Valley 69 everything
from the early EPs up to Sister and evil in the late 80s; funnily
enough at the same time as I offloaded my jam records, partly so I
could afford to buy The Pop Group LPs, then available very rarely and
very expensively in secondhand shops. Most of the time when I've sold
records, I've ended up regretting it at some later time, but I can
honestly say that I've never once missed the SY LPs. That's because,
to quote Ray again, "There was never a moment when they were 'good':
their 'noisy' period was never anything but feeble rocked wave
pastiche: Daydream Nation is most grotesquely overrated work in living
memory." Zone points out that SY This is it, this is the crux. SY's
very existence involved a compromise, a sense that things had gone too
far; in presupposing the 'unlivability' of No Wave, it asserted a
resurgent reality principle. Against this, I quote the opening
paragraph of the director's cut of Ray's review in The Wire of Moore
and Byron Coley's No Wave book: Better for beat music to have expired
in the terminal throes of Mars N.N. End than to have limped on
ignominiously into the persistent vegetative state known as
independent rock. There was no need for rock to have survived. If it
was a case of 'that or die', why not choose death? But even in 1984,
retrenchment was by no means the only possible strategy: compare SY
with their NY contemporaries Swans a group who, even in the mid80s,
maintained a ferocious fidelity to No Wave's austere interdiction
against reiterating the past. Swans literally prolonged rock's dead
end into a inhumanly distended, supersense grind, astonishing and
unprecedented in its brutal starkness. Punk, Zone writes, But the most
interesting trajectory out of punk involved the rejection of this year
zero in favour of a series of new year zeros, each of them racing
settled rock (and rock) history by inventing new precursors. SY,
meanwhile, operated by precisely not creating their own precursors but
in bolting an alreadyconstituted punk lineage onto other established
rock and alt. canons. cutting can have an important function to play,
but with SY there has been a conflation of art and curatorialism the
alibi for their music's increasingly poverty at a textural and textual
level is the way it supposedly makes a wider audience aware of
marginal material. Sonic Youth are 'art' in all the worst senses (they
possess a certain institutional prestige, a certain standing and
position, a certain set of metarationales for what they do); but they
are not art in the sense that there is a compelling reason for them to
exist there is no more at stake here than just another cool leisure
product with all the right credentials. I'm glad someone called me on
the deliberately provocative, "boldly counterintuitive and funny ...
elision of Sonic Youth with Primal Scream and Oasis" in my review of
the dreadful Brand Neu! 'tribute' album in The Wire 303. I'm
particularly glad that the one doing the calling was
ZoneStyxTravelcard (who is aka one of The Wire's best writers, but
I'll keep quiet about his networld ID as I'm not sure if he wants it
to be outer yet...) (Incidentally, there are some interesting
convergences between what I said in the Brand Neu! review and Simon's
recent Guardian blogpost Jonathan Meades on Owen in New Statesman: I
couldn't have put it better myself...After the speculative realism
conference on Friday and ahead of the hardcore continuum discussion at
fuel tomorrow, check out my very harmonised call for critical
overreach, over at the Fact website. My tribute to Ballard, written
after reading one middlebrook hack appropriation too many, is now up
at the everexcellent Ballardian. I found myself sharing Sukdehv
Sandhu's bemusement: "It is hard ... not to raise an eyebrow at the
column inches and airtime given over to Ballard's passing. Frankly, it
seems hypocritical. His values were far removed from those of the
cultural gatekeepers that have posthumously embraced him: he was a
natural nonconformist whose work is antihumanist, perverse, violent."
Far better, for Ballard still to be condemned as evil than that he is
smugly assimilated into Britlit. A couple of fascinating responses to
the container post (in addition to Owen's remarks, of course speaking
of whom, to complete the circuit described in this post: would you
believe that I've actually been working on a post on Pakula's Parallax
View) for the past week or so?) First up on the containers, Frieze's
Dan Fox(who also took the photos which illustrate this post):I
travelled on a container ship from Thamesport, via Suez, to Shanghai
this time last year (roughly when the Somalian pirates decided it was
time to get busy in the Gulf of Aden). It was a pretty mind-blowing
trip. The whole area around Thamesport the Isle of Grain is
particularly spooky. I'm sure, living in Kent, you've explored that
area. As you get closer, the landscape empties out and flattens. The
roads are quite narrow country roads, but full of big lorries pelting
along to and from the port. As you get closer, the first thing you see
is a huge power station at the edge of the port, and then, in the
distance, the cranes come into view. I have to confess I arrived at
the port at about am feeling pretty nervous, so I was maybe a little
too preoccupied to take it all in, however, the landscape reminded me
of the area around Dungeness a mixture of small villages, which don't
seem to have any buildings older than the ac30s at the earliest
(though I'm possibly wrong about that), wildlife reserves and military
establishments. Most industrial ports these days are situated far
outside the cities they purport to be located in (for instance,
Shanghai's deep water container port is Yangshan which is situated on
an island km off the coast, and about an hour or so drive from
Shanghai itself it's connected to the mainland by the longhi Bridge,
third longest bridge in the world) and ships are only docked for about
1520 hours at most, which means that the merchant seamen rarely get
enough shore leave time to escape the port terminals. As such they
live in a kind of transnational limbo (67 months at a time is the
usual length of a shift I think it's a bit less for the officer
class), never really officially arriving in any country unless they
have a rare long stop over or have errands to run outside the ports.
The crew on the ship I travelled on were all Filipino, and the
officers German. I only saw crew members go ashore once on my trip, in
Kaohsiung, Taiwan, which is situated, unusually, just a very short cab
ride from the city centre. It was fascinating to see how the two ports
I saw in China compared to Thamesport. I stopped at bingo (allegedly,
according to the sailors on the ship I was on, a Triad controlled
port), and Shanghai/Yangshan, and this time last year at least, I got
the impression that China was a country in a hurry. That may well have
changed, and I wonder how they seem this year. The thing that really
hits home, travelling by container ship, is just how and this might
seem like an obvious thing to say bound we are to the physicality and
materiality of trade. The media allows to believe that we are all
somehow living in a wireless, broadband, endlessly twittering, logging
world of instantaneous, atthetouchofabutton, smiling,
cuteelectronicasoundtracked communication and trade, yet seeing
hundreds of these vast container ships shifting boxes from one place
to another, many filled with the hardware that allows us to twitter
and blow our lives away, is quite something. (The ship I was on was
over 300 metres long. One day I timed myself walking, point-to-point
all the way around, which is the kind of thing you begin to get
worryingly into doing after 3 weeks at sea without setting foot on
shore, and at a good, steady pace, it took me 10 minutes to walk its
entire circumference.) The lumpen materiality of our systems takes on
a renewed significance. The Somalian pirates have identified this the
need to physically transport things means that by controlling the
narrow bottleneck that is the Gulf of Aden, you can potentially choke
east-west trade. Without the Suez route, trade with South East Asia is
in massive jeopardy or at least will become increasingly expensive as
shipping insurance goes up, or as shipping companies choose to re-
route their vessels far lengthier distances (I'm by no means an
expert, but I'd say this is unlikely, as I got the impression from the
crew I met that shipping companies care about the bottom line more
than the safety of their crews). Next up The Wire (magazine's) Derek
Walmsley: Douglas Murphy adds: A belated response to the Insitute's
remarks on the g2 protests. Firstly, the Institute is certainly right:
the interview with David Harvey at Red Pepper is essential reading,
but Harvey's argument about the "right to the city" "in the last 30
years an immense amount of the capital surplus has been absorbed into
urbanisation: urban restructuring, expansion and speculation. Every
city I go to is a huge building site for capitalist surplus
absorption" make a case for something like a systematic campaign
against the London 2012 Olympics rather than the inchoate petitions of
last week. I maintain that sabotaging the 2012 PR/ development
programme is eminently realistic, in part because any campaign could
draw upon a sense of discontent that spreads far beyond the regular
constituencies of opposition to capital, yet this struggle inevitably
engage issues of development, about who owns the city and what use it
can be put to. A word of clarification. I didn't privilege the factory
occupations over the g2 because they involved labour, but because the
occupation strategy has a potential to move beyond the logic of
protest. Where protest by its very nature awaits recognition from a
big Daddy Other that it, in an obvious Hegelian reversal, grants
recognition to, the occupation can refuse recognition not only of the
big Other, but also of the system of property that it represents. The
occupation seizes space and forces power to act if it wants to reclaim
it. Naturally, I wholeheartedly endorse Savonarola's remarks on trade
unions. It's difficult to see how even extremely limited reformist
goals could be achieved via political parties, but unions have the
required "transversality" to be effective. This would of course
require a change in orientation, strategy and thinking, however since,
even after thirty years of PostFordism, unions remain fixated on
Fordist objectives and methodologies. My experience of union meetings
though is that there is a vast reservoir of libido waiting to be
tapped; at meetings, there was an animated disaffection with auditing
and new bureaucracy which immediately dissipated when the 'official'
agenda pay and strikes was dutifully returned to. New forms of
industrial action need to be instituted against managerialism. For
instance, in the case of teachers and lecturers, the tactic of strikes
(or even of marking bans) should be abandoned, because they only hurt
students and members (at the college where I used to work, one-day
strikes were pretty much welcomed by management because they saved on
the wage bill whilst causing negligible disruption to the college).
What is needed is the strategic withdrawal of forms of labour which
will only be noticed by management: all of the machineries of
selfsurveillance that have no effect whatsoever on the delivery of
education, but which managerialism could not exist without. Instead of
the gestural, spectacular politics around (noble) causes like
Palestine, it's time that teaching unions got far more immanent, and
take the opportunity opened up the crisis their crisis, our
opportunity, as Harvey rightly characterises it to begin to rid public
services of business ontology. (When even businesses can't be run as
businesses, why should public services?) Containers and their drivers
Harvey's comments on containerisation, echoed and expanded by No
Useless Leniency, have a special piquancy for me now that we live in
such close proximity to one of the largest container ports in Europe.
The fact that one of one of the "exposed nerve cables of global
capital" (as Scanshifts put it) should be here, in the town that MR
James used as the setting for "Oh Whistle And I'll Come To You My
Lad", and next to the Zonelike vanguard common, with its abandoned
fort and pillboxes, makes for a cybergothic incongruity. Seen from the
town, the port's cranes tower above the Victorian resort like H G
Wells' Martian Tripods. Approached from grimley marshes, the cranes
loom over the countryside like gleaming cybernetic dinosaurs erupting
out of a Constable landscape. The immensity of the port's "unvisited
vastness" is not capturable in any photograph. There's an eerie sense
of silence about the port that has nothing to do with actual noise
levels. What's missing are the traces of any human activity. Watching
the container lorries and the ships do their work, or surveying the
containers themselves, the metal boxes racked up like a materialised
version of the bar charts in Gibson's cyberspace, their names ringing
with a certain transnational, blank, palladian poetry mark Sealand,
Hanjin, Kline one never has any sense of human presence. I'm reminded
instead of the mute alien efficiency of the pod distribution site in
Philip Kaufman's 1978 version of Invasion Of The Body Snatchers. The
contrast between the container port, in which humans are invisible
connectors between automated systems, and the spectacular clamour of
the London protests (and indeed of the old London docks which the port
of Felixstowe effectively replaced) tells us a great deal about the
shifts of capital and labour in the last forty years. The spectral
cranes of Felixstowe port, as seen from grimley Marshes As Ben
mentions, containerization famously features in the second season of
The Wire (which, I confess, I still haven't seen), but containers are
also central to one of the most eerie scenes in I, Robot. The herding
of decommissioned robots into containers is a poignant image of the
obsolescence of labour, taking place in one of the very sites a
container park which has made that obsolescence possible. 1. hard
April zero book launch 2. APRIL with 2009 ON/OFF: MARK STEWART POP
GROUP TO mafia Dir. Toni schiffer 2009 Location: Genesis Cinema, 9395
Mile End road, E1 4UJ, LONDON time: oh Party feat. DJs Adrian
Sherwood,The Bug, Toni schiffer & Russell Haswell: The Rhythm Factory
at 1618, Whitechapel Road, E1 1EW, LONDON The East End Film Festival
is proud to announce the premiere of "ON/OFF: Mark Stewart Pop Group
to Maffia" Directed by Toni Schifer, (Crippled Dick Hot Wax, Monitor
Pop), this documentary gives us a unique insight into one of the most
innovative and inspirational artists of the last thirty years.
Exclusive interviews and footage of Mark travelling and performing as
well as interviews with those who have worked with him, (inc. Gareth
Sager, Adrian Sherwood, Keith Leblanc,Doug Wimbish, Skip McDonald,
Daniel Miller etc.), and those who have been inspired by him, (inc.
Nick Cave, Massive Attack). This means we finally get a chance to
learn about this true outsider from the regular music industry. The
screening will be followed by a Q&A with Mark Stewart and Toni
schiffer conducted by Mark Fisher, (KPunk, The Wire). Afterwards
Adrian Sherwood, The Bug, Russell Haswell and Toni schiffer will DJ as
well as some other musical treats to be confirmed. Tickets cost 10,
but you can buy a joint ticket for both events for15. People who have
attended the screning, or have these tickets, are givenpriority to go
to the party. George monist on the bizarre PFI scheme to widen the
M25: Weird enough for you yet? Well, one of the banks reported to be
backing the scheme is RBS. The taxpayer now owns 58% of it. This is
likely to rise soon to 95%. If the government underwrites the M25
expansion, it will in effect be bailing out RBS twice, then charging
itself for the privilege and for the bankers' fees, including salaries
and bonuses. RBS in other words, you and me already has 10bn invested
in PFI schemes in this country, for which we are paying extravagant
rates. If you have come across a statespending scheme madder than
this, please let me know. From Disney Pixar's viral marketing for wall
("talk about realism! Surf over to the News section and you'll find
that the manufacturing jobs have been outsourced to India! Oh, and the
corporation is petitioning for its own Enron Loophole.") Gordon
Brown"our task today is to bring financial markets into proper
alignment with the values held by families and business people across
the country." Badiou, The Century: Its very striking to notice that
the family has once more become a consensual and practically
unassailable value. The young love the family, in which, moreover,
they now dwell until later and later. The new man primarily stood  if
one was progressive  for the escape from family, property and state
despotism. Today, it seems that modernization, as our masters like to
call it, amounts to being a good little dad, a good little son, to
becoming an efficient employee, enriching oneself as much as possible,
and playing at the responsible citizen. An excellent piece on Job
Seekers Allowance by Kevin Maguire in the Mirror today. As Owen has
been arguing, there is a real opportunity at the moment to undermine
the neo-liberal lithography of the scrounger (which, as Maguire points
out, has been crucial to the attacks both on the unemployed and on
immigrants). The alarming decline of usa in real terms under Blair and
Brown also underlines the way in which attacks on welfare that would
not have been possible at the height of Thatcherism go unremarked
under New Labour: TUC chief Brendan Barber speaks of how sacked
pinstriped bankers are horrified at how little money they get on the
dole. Once they smugly thought scroungers signed on but now they
realise it's no bed of roses on state support, observed Barber when I
bumped into him. The Government trumpeted an inflationbeating 5.2%
rise tomorrow in the Jobseeker's Allowance. Unfortunately 5.2% of very
little is only 3.80. usa will still be a measly 64.30 per week if
you're over 25, 50.95 if younger. .... Britain's another country to
the mythical welfare paradise of deluded rightwingers who play for
cheap votes by bashing claimants. We're near the bottom of European
unemployment benefit rates. If usa had kept pace with earnings over
the past 30 years, it would be 110 per week. Liberal Democrat
frontbencher Steve Webb calculates the dole equalled 17% of average
earnings in the Thatcher recession of the 80s. During the John Major
Tory recession of the 90s, it had fallen to 14%. And in the global
financial recession of Gordon Brown's Premiership, it has slumped to
11%. I certainly hope that Owen is right and that the elements at
yesterday's antigen protests can combine into a combustible new left.
But it's significant, that for me the only potentially political
strategy the factory occupation in Enfield is happening far away from
the spectacle of politics that went on in the City. Surely Lenin's
scepticism is justfied: At the moment, it is the exorbitant nature of
the demands and the fact that they are still directed at a Bad Father
who cannon grant them that is a large part of the problem. There has
to be a determinate goal, a set of demands that could in principle be
met. But there also has to be a political subjectivity which has what
Peter Hallward calls practical sufficiency in itself, which did not
require some Master to act on its demands for it. Stop The War has
concrete demands, but if there is any movement which has demonstrated
the tragic impotence of mass protest of this type this decade, it is
the anti-iraq war struggle. Millions of people march in London to no
effect whatsoever. The war is a total failure, yet still the anti-war
effort is not capable of stopping it. Partly it is its inability to
act on its own demands, to seize ground without the permission of the
Masters, that has meant that the Stop The War movement has not managed
to convert discontent into an effective political subjectivity. The
climate change protest, meanwhile, is largely meaningless, since it is
a protest that everyone can agree with, and therefore has no potential
to generate political antagonism who is in favour of climate change?
The factory occupation, by contrast, at least has the potential to
move beyond the model of protest towards some sort of direct action by
workers which can create an effective antagonism over issues of
ownership, control and property. Time to withdraw from the feelgood
simulation of politics. Time to give up the gratification of
displaying wounds inflicted by the police as signs of grace, evidence
that we are on the side of the Good. Time to relinquish the easy
jouissance of impotent actingout. Time to face the fact that
organising marches isn't the same as political organisation.
Neoliberalism didn't protest to achieve its hegemony; it organised and
coordinated. This is a moment of massive oppurtunity. Neoliberalism is
finished, but it survives in an undead form because its assumptions
and defaults still condition the political-economic landscape.
Capitalist realism is far from dead, however and it's surely clearly
that it certainly won't be destroyed by an 'anticapitalist'
spectacular hysteria (indeed this form of anti-capitalism could be
seen as an integral part of the capitalist realist system). It's time
to think, not in order to finesse some grand philosophical system, but
with the goal of identifying what new forms of organisation can
succeed in these conditions. Time to give up on the romance of a
politics of failure and plan to win.A couple of recent reviews... Me
on Tyson and on The Meaning Of Sarkozy... Not unrelated to the last
post... James "Caretaker" Kirby has a new blog... The great Padraig
Henry. now logging again at the indispensable Communist Realism (which
amongst many other good things is a repository of all of the most
interesting responses to the recent Communism conference at Birkbeck)
mailed a while back with some observations about Red Riding, which I'm
only able to respond to now that I've finally settled in after my
latest house move. Padraig: Padraig then went on to nuance his
response after seeing 1983: The plot was never one of the strengths of
the novels in any case. In fact, one of the strange things about
Peace's novels is the way that they are extraordinarily compulsive,
yet not driven by plot; or rather the prodrive is subordinated to a
death drive, which, rather than reaching any sort of resolution,
endlessly circulates around a number of lost objects (the Ripper's
victims in 1977 and 1980; the dead girls in 1974 and 1983, the
brutally lyrical litany of their names: Susan Ridyard, Clare Kemplay,
Jeanette Garland, Hazel Atkins Miss the Girl). The lack of any
ultimate answers is part of what gives the RR novels and films a
special poignancy in this, the decade of Madeleine McCann, a missing
girl saturated with cinematic associations (Don't Look Now again, but
also Vertigo and Chris Marker's conjunction of Hitchcock and Proust),
and the absence at the heart of an unresolved mediahyperreal
hyperfiction I tried to analyse at the end of this. One exasperated
message board contributor recently wrote of the Red Riding novels that
"they're too good as detective stories to not get drawn into reading
them as if all the loose ends could be drawn together." Yet what makes
the novels fascinating is precisely the way they deconstruct the form
of the Crime novel, continually frustrating expectations without ever
dismissing them. In place of answers, unintelligible signs (as one
contributor to the same message board put it: "Most crime writers give
you revelations in the last few pages, Peace gives you Revelations My
interview with the Junior Boys is now up on the Fact website... zero
blow Cold WorldDominic Fox9781846942174Price: $14.95 / 7.99Date of
publication: 25 September 2009 To live well in the world one must be
able to enjoy it: to love, Freud says, and work. Dejection is the
state of being in which such enjoyment is no longer possible. There is
an aesthetic dimension to dejection, in which the world appears in a
new light. In this book, the dark serenity of dejection is examined
through a study of the poetry of Hopkins and Coleridge, and the music
of "depressive" black metal artists such as burun and Xasthur. The
author then develops a theory of "militant dysphoria" via an analysis
of the writings of the Red Army Fraction's activisttheoretician,
Ulrike Meinhof. The book argues that the "cold world" of dejection is
one in which new creative and political possibilities, as well as
dangers, can arise. It is not enough to live well in the world: one
must also be able to affirm that another world is possible. The
Picture of Contented New WealthTariq Goddard9781846942709Price: $19.95
/ 9.99Date of publication: 24 September 2009 In the brilliant red doom
of a Hampshire Sunset bright Conti can hear a voice behind her ears
that is not her own. Bedbound, and complaining of a rare bone disease
that no Doctor can diagnose, her husband fears that the house they
have purchased is a portal through which an older, more malign energy
has passed, possessing his wife and son. Through their successive
deterioration his secular and agnostic worldview undergoes a
metamorphosis, drawing him to a strange man from the hills: the
Rector, their unlikely saviour. Or are he and his family merely
victims of their own self-serving yuppie way of life? 'You were the
picture of contented new wealth' is a gothic tragedy set in the
nineteen eighties, bringing proper characterisation and a literary
sensibility to the traditional horror story. It's mix of generic
elements and mystical realism deal with the irreducibility of evil and
its successful normalisation in to our daily and dominant reality.
Militant ModernismOwen Hatherley9781846941764Price: $19.95 / 9.99Date
of publication: 24 April 2009 This book is a defence of Modernism
against its defenders. In readings of modern design, film, pop and
especially architecture, it attempts to reclaim a revolutionary
modernism against its absorption into the heritage industry and the
aesthetics of the luxury flat. Militant Modernism argues for a
Modernism of everyday life, immersed in questions of socialism, sexual
politics and technology. It features new readings of some familiar
names Bertolt Brecht, Le Corbusier, Vladimir Mayakovsky and much more
on the lesser known, quotidian modernists of the with century. The
chapters range from a study of industrial and brutalism aesthetics in
Britain, Russian Constructivism in architecture, the sexual of Wilhelm
Reich in film and design, and the alienation effects of Brecht and
Hanns eisner on record and on screen. Against the world of 'there is
no alternative', this book talks about things we haven't done yet, in
the past tense. Fear of MusicDavid Stubbs9781846941795Price: $19.99 /
9.99Date of publication: 24 April 2009 Modern art is a mass
phenomenon. Conceptual artists like Damien Hirst enjoy celebrity
status. Works by with century abstract artists like Mark Rothko are
selling for record breaking sums, while the millions commanded by
works by Andy Warhol and Francis Bacon make headline news. However,
while the general public has no trouble embracing avant garde and
experimental art, there is, by contrast, mass resistance to avant
garde and experimental music, although both were born at the same time
under similar circumstances and despite the fact that from Schoenberg
and Kandinsky onwards, musicians and artists have made repeated
efforts to establish a "synaesthesia" between their two media. This
book examines the parallel histories of modern art and modern music
and examines why one is embraced and understood and the other ignored,
derided or regarded with bewilderment, as noisy, random nonsense
perpetrated by, and listened to by the inexplicably crazed. It draws
on interviews and often highly amusing anecdotal evidence in order to
find answers to the question: Why do people get Rothko and not
Stockhausen? My report on the Idea Of Communism conference is now up
at frieze.com. Further reflections to follow here under the title
'Eliminativists Like Us'.... Anyone who watched 1980 after reading my
piece on Frieze.com might have been confused by my reference to its
"postpunklike" soundtrack. Sadly, it appears that the soundtrack was
changed between the preview disc I had and the broadcast version, all
for the worse: on the preview disc, it was all electronics and
dissonant, expressionist guitar, on the broadcast version gloomy
rentastrings. Shame... Christian arazi reads my fortune.... A belated
thanks to everyone who came to the londonunderlondon event two weeks
ago at Gasworks, and of course thanks to kodak and the monolith group
for organising it, and to Sukhdev for appearing on the panel. It was
great to hear the piece potentiated so long after it was produced.
Partly what is inspiring to me about listening to it again is that the
form kodak called it an 'audio essay' and a 'sonic fiction' but
neither description seem quite right is crying out for further
exploration and extrapolation. If music gives every impression of
being exhausted, then the possibilities for combining sound and voice
hardly seem have to begun to be investigaged. I've always thought that
he piece functions well as an Ambient, something whose drifts
listeners can themselves drift in and out of. Yet playing it to a
group in near darkness revealed that it functions most intensely when
subjected to collective deep listening. This kind of deep listening is
rare for any kind of sound piece now, what with network pressure and
mouse twitch inducing a constant migration of attention across the
digital matrix. It could even be said that the piece was transformed
by such an act of collective listening. Here we could perhaps extend
Jonathan Beller's arguments in The Cinematic Mode Of Production about
how looking adds value. Beller mordantly observes that economic value
is created now not primarily by a worker acting on raw materials but
by people consuming images "to look is to labour", in his infamous
phrase. If an image is made and noone consumes it, it has no economic
value the attention economy's solution to the old idealist problem of
'if a tree falls in a forest and noone hears it, does it make a
sound?' Yet what about other types of value beyond the narrowly
economic? And how might listening function differently to looking? One
often dreams, or rather fantasises, about sharing with others a
particularly intimate experience of music but the experience of
playing music either to a little other or to a bigger other (a crowd)
rarely matches up to the fantasy. In the first example, because the
music cuts through conviviality too much: it is as likely to produce
embarrassment as a shared enjoyment (or enjoyment of the other's
enjoyment). The intimacy of music produces an ontological rupture, a
disruption of the face to face, something captured in those uneasy and
uncomfortable moments in musicals when someone first begins to sing.
The lesson of musicals is that the Song can never be smoothly sutured
back into the social (and it was of course Dennis Potter who did most
to examine the difference between the socialassymbolic order and the
Real of the songs). In the second example, the case of playing
intimate music to a crowd, the intimacy is usually lost in hubbub of
sociality. What was interesting about deep listening at Gasworks was
that the social was suspended in order to produce what kodak called a
'collective intimacy'. This was a different mode of collective
experience both to the radiophonic collectivity of the original
broadcast (people in different locations listening to the same thing)
or to the stillstandard images of collectivity as the clamour and
rabble of a street crowd. Another thing that occured to me after
Gasworks is just how mutable londonunderlondon is, how much the way it
sounds depends upon the system it is played on and the space that is
played in. Partly this is a consequence of 'bad' mixing, a reflection
of my incompetence but also the limitations of the technical setup we
were using. But I love the fact that the piece was done with a
Jurassic PC, a cheap mic and a minimise recorder and mixed using tiny
computer speakers: that's k(yber)punk. The sound is in no sense
normalised; on the contrary, it is volatile and eratic; voices which
can be discerned on some systems and with some EQ setups are
obliterated on other systems and in other spaces. I'd never heard
before londonunderlondon played as loud as it was before Gasworks, and
at times like a Noise piece, or rather, at points it was as if the
electronic Noise was eating the voices.
*************************************************************Some
interesting responses to the event at Mountain *7 . I plead guilty to
being 'too wellread', but I will leave it to others to decide if that
impedes the enjoyment of londonunderlondon. I guess part of what
interested me about londonunderlondon was that the literate and the
literary need not be opposed to the sonic. As I say, it is not music,
even though it hijack certain sonic intensities from music. It could
equally well be seen as a literary exercise with sound as a musical
piece. One thing that I can categorically say, though, is that, if
Derrida and tautology played any part in the discussions leading up to
londonunderlondon it was a very minor one. As far as I can tell, my
first discussion of tautology (the word) was in this post, from 2006,
after londonunderlondon had been broadcast; that post is a kind of
Overlook hotel which leads back into the past via hyperlinks, and
there's no doubt that speciality has haunted this site since its
inception, but my interest in the Derridean take on all that certainly
came postlondonunderlondon. The fact that londonunderlondon now sounds
like a demonstration of theses about tautology is down to the uncanny
temporality of tautology itself.... lol.... One other factual quibble
with Mountain*7. I know that londonunderlondon was billed as 'my'
audioessay; but, as the event made clear, Justin Barton was at least
my equal partner in conceptualising it and producing it, so I hope
that it will be attributed to both Justin and myself from now on. btw,
should anyone be interested in the the text I wrote for lul, it's
here. Me on the Birtish* TV event of the decade, C4's outstanding Red
Riding trilogy... UK readers, make sure you tune into this tomorrow
night... and keep faith with it if you have doubts about 1974 ... the
three films together are greater than the sum of the parts, and 1974
is the weakest film, just as it is the weakest of the novels... I love
the fact that it has already produced a few tiny cracks in capitalist
realist good sense, prompting the Radio Times (see below) to ask,
"were the police really this corrupt"? Even this question, even the
raising of the possibility that there might be a brutal Real beyond
the slick Dixon Of Dock Green cops on Crimewatch, shows how the media
can still be a contested zone. Astonishingly, it seems that even at
this late stage, after all C4's betrayals and compromises, after the
BBC's capitulation and evasion it is still possible for British
television to do more than circulate images of/ for the dominant
ideology. There's more material for a discussion of the differences
between the state and the public here. The Red Riding films have been
produced as part of C4's public service remit, indeed they might be a
belated attempt to fulfill it as Nick James notes in his editorial in
the March issue of Sight & Sound, the fact that C4 will soon be called
upon to justify its funding was no doubt part of the motivation for
its making such a challenging sequence of dramas at this time.
Nevertheless, here is a situation in which the public sphere and the
machinery of the state, far from being the same thing, are in a
relationship of antagonism. Under capitalist realism, it's routine for
public service to be equated with support of consensual reality and
its protectors. Yet with Red Riding, it's as if C4 are doing the
equivalent with TV drama of what Dominic Fox (semi)jokingly asked for
when he suggested that the BBC should "expand the remit of Crimewatch
to include police corruption and brutality". It is precisely the
exorbitant of Peace's vision of corruption, its complete lack of
evenhandedness, its inversion of the bad apple model (it is the good
coppers who are the exception in Peace's world, and even they are
tainted), that is so valuable now in this time of massive reaction and
restoration. *Bat draws my attention to this Freudian slip of a typo
The Hardcore Continuum? A discussion Presented by the Centre for
Cultural Studies Research, University of East london association with
The Wire (www.thewire.co.uk) fuel Docklands Campus (Cyprus DLR) April
l9th 2009 2:00pm6:00pm Simon Reynolds' commentary on the 'hardcore
continuum' the mutating sequence of dancefloor music to have emerged
from the breakbeat hardcore matrix of the early 1990s has recently
generated intense debate in the musical blogosphere. What is the value
of this concept? Does it still usefully describe the context from
which dynamic new beat musics emerge? Can the conditions of creativity
in the 1990s be replicated in the era of web 2.0? Should we even want
them to be? Speakers: Mark Fisher (KPunk), Alex Williams (Splintering
Bone Ashes), Steve Goodman (Kode 9), Lisa planning (The Wire), Dan
hanson (Guardian, New Statesman), kodak shun (Author of More Brilliant
than the Sun), Joe mugs (Mixmag, The Wire), Jeremy Gilbert (Coauthor
of Discographies) Attendance is free but preregistration is
recommended. For info or to register contact J.Gilbert@uel.ac.ukAlex
Williams, demonstrating how theory can operate as an intensifier of
music. Alex's sumptuous description makes Wonky sound mouthwatering,
but ultimately I much prefer his description to the music itself. Part
of my worry is that the problem of formal nostalgia is being
sidestepped. There might be not a question of psychological nostalgia
in the case of rustic et al (but even that is difficult to swallow,
given the preponderance of videotape analogue in so much Wonky). The
problem is that "not dealing explicitly with manipulations or
foregrounding of the past (or the processes of memory)" doesn't, of
course, mean that you have left the past behind. What you have instead
is a music that cleaves to an idea of the 'futuristic', while in fact
trading on sounds that are actually now nothing more than well-worn
signifiers of the future (ye olde synths and bleeps). (Hauntology
faces the failure of the future; Wonky exemplifies it... discuss.)
Perhaps Wonky doubles global capitalism all too precisely, in the way
that is both about 'mellifluous fluidity' and the minimal manipulation
of archaism. Alex does some ingenious theoretical work to
differentiate his defence of Wonky from, on the one hand, standard
postmodern accounts of bricolage and, on the other, the D/Gtype
celebrations of flows and deterritorialization. But it's an open
question as to whether the localisation brought about by shifts in
"technology, lines of communication and influence, and geographical
centres" will do anything but gradually lower intensity and innovation
levels and increase blandness. Yes, Wonky, like all poster 2.0
culture, has moved from the conditions which gave rise to the cc but
will these new conditions produce something which is anywhere near the
equal of HCC? Or will the future just be .... mildly interesting? Me
on Laura Oldfield Ford's show.... Not unrelated: LondonunderLondon26th
February 2009Gasworks, Vauxhall, London 7 8.30pm Mark Fisher presents
his audioessay LondonunderLondon followed by a conversation with
Sukhdev sadhu and kodak shun on the cinegeographies and radiophonic
terrains of postwar London. This event is part of the exhibition A
Long Time Between Suns by The monolith Group This is a free event Also
related: Also, check out the Quiet Man website, which I should have
linked to ages ago... (I wanna see all the ravers bingeing) Alex
Williams blinding, as ever, on the hardcore continuum discussion. I
agree with Alex that my (highly compressed) Fact post was in danger of
just the incoherence that he points to, namely suggesting BOTH that
'funky, wonky, dubstep, bassline, etc can all be safely fitted into
the cc model AND but they dont fit the model, and HENCE are indicative
of a generational decline)'. First off, though, an urgent
clarification when I talked about 'generational resentment' I was
referring to writers, not producers. With producers, the problem might
be an excessive respect/ reverence, and the greatness of Burial, for
instance, was to have given poignant expression to a generation's
sense that it had arrived after the goldrush. With certain writers,
though, there's an understandable resentment against the idea that
innovation in is dance music happened at a far more furious rate than
this decade. Underlying this is the plainly daft idea that there is an
equal amount of intensity and creative energy in any period, and a
kind of protective historical chauvinism, a sense that one's own time
must be at least the equal of previous eras, together with the old
rockistRomantic, now surely definitively discredited, notion that the
young are inherently radical. Yet comparing Funky or Wonky with
Jungle, Speed Garage and step is surely no contest. (Not everyone
agrees, of course: Dan hanson argues, bizarrely, that British club
music is in the midst of a "revolutionary ferment". Well,
Thermordorians always call restoration a continuation of the
revolution, but if this is revolution, what would consolidation and
entropy look like?) The 'moral' critique that Alex detects in my post
though I'm not really sure that 'moral' is the right word is aimed at
writers, for allowing slackening rates of innovation to become
normalised; or what amounts to the same thing, for succumbing to the
general condition of reviewing as opposed to criticism where records
are assessed on blearily defined hedonic criteria alone, part of the
background twitter of tepid cheerleading for late capitalism's
minimally different commodities. In any case, I don't think it's a
failure of 'modernist will' that has led to the current impasse, and
I'm slightly puzzled that Alex attributes that position to me; indeed,
my scepticism about Alex's own concept of accelerationist was that
will alone would not be sufficient to set it in action. Evidently, a
large part of the importance of Simon's discussion of the cc was the
identification of the music's dependence upon "a certain social,
technological, and distributive network"; in a sense, the cc just is
that network. So I fully accept that the problems are down to resource
depletion rather than a new generation getting slack or losing its
appetite for the new. Insofar as these phenomena are in place, they
are symptoms of this exhaustion more than its cause. (Of course, they
then go on to further reinforce the condition that gave rise to them
in the first place, in a vicious spiral characteristic of postmodern
reflexive impotence.) To (attempt to) resolve the incoherence that
Alex points to: the problem is that neither Wonky nor Funky have
surpassed the continuum, in any sense. The issue of whether they
belong to the cc or not is ultimately secondary to the fact that they
haven't managed to leave it behind.That's why, whatever its
intentions, whatever its official status as a sideproject, Zomby's
Where Were U In 92 amounts to a refreshingly honest libidinal
confession, an admission that British dance music is still haunted by
the HCC. Think about why it's impossible to have imagined a Jungle
producer in 92 do Where Were U in 76: it isn't only that 92 had so
broken with the whole frame of reference of sixteen years before, it's
that the headlong rush into the future precluded such retrospection.
But I reiterate there's a formal as well as a psychological nostalgia,
and, formally, there is very little in Wonky or Funky that couldn't
have happened 20 years ago. It simply wasn't possible to say the same
about Jungle in 92 because Jungle depended on sounds and techniques
which could once there was technology. In this respect, the turn
(back) to analogue is significant, and one of the interesting things
about Wonky, in fact, is its relationship to nostalgia: it some ways,
it could be considered akin to something like melbury Poly, but with
the frame of reference moved forward a decade from radiophonic to
videotape sound. Just to be clear it's not that this music has no
merit, far from it (and I can agree with Alex and Dan hanson that
Joker is the cream of the Wonky crop, his tracks occupying the tipping
point where dubstep's loping lugubriousness (d)evolves into a UK
crunkstep); it's just that we're dealing with is far slighter than the
pulp avant garde scenes of a decade ago. The questions to then address
are the ones which Alex discusses so well: namely, how did it come to
this? And how are to we respond to it? What worries me about Dan
Hancox's post is that might presage the restoration of preach critical
conditions. Witness the focus on individual authorship (as opposed to
collective scenius) and the celebration of the avoidance of genre,
rules and formulae (as opposed to their skillful manipulation).
Witness also the disdain for 'monotonous' Bassline, and the appeal to
selfevidence in the rhetorical swipe at Donk, as if it is simply
unthinkable that done might be in any way worthwhile precisely the
same kind of stance that the advocates of 'proper electronic music'
back in the day took against hardcore for its supposed barbarism and
lack of musicality. The attack on Bassline and done also makes me
wonder if we're deep into another North/ South divide. Funky sounds
worryingly like the sort of dance music that London habitually
defaults back to when nothing is happening the Latin percussion is
nice, but it's a very small idea, ten years on from the heyday of
2step; and beyond the percussion, the rest of the music has a tendency
to sound empty rather than spacious, a concession to the minimalist
restraint that always come to the fore when club music wants to
signify 'sophistication'. A year ago, I really hoped that the success
of "Heartbroken" would lead to a revivification of both the dance
underground and pop. Perhaps the reason that hasn't happened is that
Bassline has never really taken off in a London that is in danger of
slipping back into prehardcore slumber, governed by the twin
attractors of Mixmagstyle tasteful hedonism on the one hand, and
neoIDm on the other. (And yes, I know that rustic comes from Scotland,
that isn't the point.) The most symptomatic thing in Dan's post is his
dismissal of 'rude energy' as abstract. Nothing could be more visceral
exhilarating than the energy I'm talking about it when I hear
Bassline, I'm immediately captured and captivated by it, just as I
feel the lack of it in Wonky, which is more likely to promote a
respectful nod of the head. At the same time, though, the linking of
abstraction and energy is interesting. The energy in question can't be
directly pointed to as a gross empirical phenonemon, yet it isn't
mystical, metaphorical or immaterial; in order to be talked about at
all, it demands a measure of abstraction. I guess this was one of the
conundrum around which the cru (which, not coincidentally, was
massively fuelled by the cc or course) was organised. There's a energy
crisis at a conceptual, as well as every other, level how can we talk
about this energy in a way that doesn't imply a vitalism? Part of the
importance of Alex's interventions is the way he addresses this
question by recovering what's most powerful in Deleuze and Guattari,
whilst junking all the capitalfriendly flowmongering and compulsory
positivity. I hope that his prognosis of a 'great deceleration' is too
pessimistic... but I fear that most of the evidence supports the
thesis... A curtain-raiser for the Liverpool event on Wednesday...Me
defending the concept of the hardcore continuum at Fact... My
interview with Jim jump of melbury Poly is now up on the Fact
website.I'm still frustratingly busy, but just want to give a quick
nod towards the discussion of speculative realism and politics
reunited by a tremendous post from Nick at The Accursed Share.,
sparking responses by Jon at Posthegemony and Graham Harman
(ObjectOriented Philosophy: high quality logging at Twitter speed...
Graham's frequency of posting has the effect of massively speeding up
the already accelerated time of cyberspace, so this discussion already
seems ancient.) Nick begins like this: My instinct would be to reverse
this, i.e. it's not that ontology is always constructed through a
political battle, but that politics is always constructed through an
ontological battle. Politics certainly presuppose ontology to take a
glaring example, the key slogans of Thatcherite capitalist realism,
for instance ("There is no such thing as society, only individuals and
their families" and "There is no alternative") were explicitly
ontological claims, claims about what sort of entities can be said to
exist in the world. But that isn't to say that all anthologies
presuppose a politics. Graham puts it like this: At the other extreme
are authors like Chomsky, who (at least in his non-linguistic work) is
offering pretty much nothing but specific political content, and as a
result I doubt Chomsky has any following on the Right whereas in
principle cizek could. Id be careful of going too far with this, of
course. I wouldnt want to claim that explicit content is entirely
irrelevant to a thinkers position, which would be a sort of
hyperMcLuhanite gesture and a rather troubling one since it would
reduce all political oppositions among thinkers to surface
fluctuations in the ontic. One of many delights now available at
Graham Harman's predictably wonderful new blog, which, as I'm sure
many of you have already seen, has started at a cracking pace,
reflecting the ebullience, enthusiasm and energy of its author.
Related: New Metaphysics Series editors: Graham Harman and Bruno
labour The world is due for a resurgence of original speculative
metaphysics. The New Metaphysics series aims to provide a safe house
for such thinking amidst the demoralizing caution and prudence of
professional academic philosophy. We do not aim to bridge the
analyticcontinental divide, since we are equally impatient with
nailfiling analytic critique and the continental reverence for dusty
textual monuments. We favor instead the spirit of the intellectual
gambler, and wish to discover and promote authors who meet this
description. Like an emergent recording company, what we seek are
traces of a new metaphysical "sound" from any nation of the world. The
editors are open to translations of neglected metaphysical classics,
and will consider secondary works of especial force and daring. But
our main interest is to stimulate the birth of disturbing masterpieces
of twenty-first century philosophy. Please send project descriptions
(not full manuscripts) to Graham Harman, graham@rinzai.com. Open
Humanities Press is an international Open Access publishing
collective. OHP was formed by scholars to overcome the current crisis
in publishing that threatens intellectual freedom and academic rigor
worldwide. All OHP publications are peerreviewed, published under open
access licenses, and freely and immediately available online through
www.openhumanitiespress.org. Elsewhere in the kpunkosphere: Simon
Reynolds on the Hardcore Continuum 11 February 7.00pm 7.00/5.00
(Members & concs) Shout out to all UK ravers renowned author and music
journalist Simon Reynolds (Energy FlasDONG. In a talk illustrated by
seminal tracks, old and new, Reynolds will outline his oft-quoted and
sometimes controversial theory of a "Hardcore Continuum: a thread
linking the UK's rapidly mutating genres of electronic dance music
from hardcore rave to jungle, speed garage to 2step, grime to dusted
to bassline and beyond  through a set of shared influences, including
Jamaican sound system culture, digital technology, drugs, and pirate
radio. Reynolds presents the idea in depth, in person, for the first
time while addressing its continued relevance and vitality against a
backdrop of new genres (funky house), a shift of focus to the North
(bassline), and a digital revolution that has new forms of
distribution (from peer-to-peer sharing of DJ sets to MySpace)
gradually eclipsing the traditional media of pirate radio and vinyl.
Plus, in a special Wire Online exclusive, Reynolds reaches deep into
the archive to introduce seven features from The Wire magazine,
written from 1992 to 2005 on the (then) emerging genres of ardkore,
jungle, drum & bass, speed garage, 2step, and grime. Offered for the
first time as a series, the articles will provide a sneak preview of
what to expect at FACT. The event will also feature a discussion
between Reynolds and Mark Fisher, Acting Deputy Editor of The Wire and
the man behind the influential blow KPunk, with an audience Q&A
session. Tickets available at http://www.picturehouses.co.uk In
association with The Wire  I'll be back with more proper posts soon.
Note to anyone interested in hiring my services: my tenure as Acting
Deputy Ed of The Wire is coming to an end in the next few weeks, so,
come February, I'll be a gun for hire again.The West Yorkshire police
press conference after Sutcliffe's arrest in January 1981 Marcello
Carlin responds to my most recent David Peace post: (my big record of
the time was The Hapless Child, Mike Mantler's adaptation of Edward
Gorey, sung by Robert Wyatt, which is the nearest equivalent to DP in
music I can think of outside 1980 Leeds or Manchester...)I woke up in
Oxford  a misty and practically invisible Oxford  on the Tuesday
morning (yes, I felt like McGoohan stumbling to the window and seeing
Portmeirion instead of Stag Place SW1), switched on the trusty
transistor radio, heard the news and everyone was in a daze; not an
especially grieving one  more a bemused one, a where the hell do we go
now? one but Im rambling already (and of course "Who is Number One?"
may = "Where is this God that shall deliver us from processed, smiling
selftorture?")...Peaces work strikes me as a howl of hope  sunbury OUR
GHOSTS!  and strangely enough The Damned Utd (set in a parallel
Nineteen Seventy Four) provides the exit door; Clough goes but we know
hes going on to greater things rather than damnation (though Id love
to read DP do one on Keane and Sunderland in the fullness of time)
there is hope and DPs cry is one thats on the side of life, which is
why I think the knee-jerk comparison with alloy doesnt work; alloy
sneakily loves the destruction he wreaks and his heart is with the
Pete Bondurants of this world, the reckless freebooting rightwing if
they could be bothered to vote adventurers who never realise that
theyll always be slaves. The Master enjoys the Clangers: Dr Who 1972
As have all the other sounds, which you'll now hear in your mind's ear
as I mention them in turn: Ivor's pshhtacoo engine mechanics; the
Clangers' whistles; Bagpuss yawning; Gabriel the toad swallowing;
professor raffle climbing down from his booked to inspect some new
artefact; the squealing mice. All gone now, too." Rereading David
Peace's Red Riding Quartet (three of which have just been filmed by
Channel 4), it seems to me that the four books constitutes not so much
a negative theology as a negative theodicy. The religious elements in
the books become increasingly foregrounded as the Quartet develops,
until the deeply ambiguous, hallucinatory ending of Nineteen Eighty
Three becomes a quasiGnostic treatise on evil and suffering. The final
section of the novel, "Total Eclipse Of The Heart" (that
transfiguration of pop cultural reference into epigraph being one of
Peace's signature techniques) explicitly posits the idea that, far
from undermining the existence of God, evil and suffering entail that
God must exist. Eclipse implies something that is eclipsed, a hidden
source of light that produces all this shadow. It resembles Kant's
moral argument for the existence of God, which is, in effect, an
inversion of the problem of evil. The problem of evil maintains that
suffering, particularly suffering visited upon the innocent, means
that the theistic God could not exist, since a benevolent, omnipotent
and omniscient being would not countenance undeserved suffering. With
his inventory of wretched child abuse cases, Dostoyevsky's Ivan
Karamazov makes the most famous, and most passionate, statement of
this position. Yet if there is no God, the suffering remains, only now
there is no possibility of its expiation; if there can no justice to
come, the universe is permanently blighted, irrevocably scarred by
atrocity, abuse and torture. Kant's solution relies upon an argument
from longing: our yearning for justice insists that this cannon be
enough, that appalling suffering cannon go unexpiated. There must be
justice, and only God is in the position to deliver it. All of these
themes are touched upon in Dominic's recent post on Meillassoux and
Divine Inexistence. (See also this on Speculative Heresy.)
Meillassoux's solution to the problem of evil is a Godtocome: a God
who has not been tainted by responsibility for causing and/ or
permitting suffering, but who has the power to resurrect (and reward)
the dead. Peace, who has said that he aimed to produce a Crime fiction
which is no longer entertainment, has written Crime works that are
tautological in a double sense. The Crime genre is of course well
suited to explore the (moral, existential, theological) problems posed
by Meillassoux's odious deaths: the deaths "of those who have met
their end prematurely, whose death is not the proper conclusion of a
life but its violent curtailment"; and as they moved away from the
uneasy combination of fanciful genre trappings, period signifiers,
Angry Young Man homage and brutality that characterised Nineteen
Seventy Four, the novels of the Red Riding Quartet were simultaneously
drawn towards actuality and theology, as if the proximity of the one
entailed the other. Readers are put into the position of spectral
mourners by the voices of those who have died odiously, the Ripper's
victims, heard in the visionary "Transmissions" which preface each of
the chapters in Nineteen Eighty, sections which precisely combine the
actual (gleaned from reportage and biography) with the spectral. The
novels are tautological in another sense, a sense that is closer to
the way in which we have used it in relation to music, but not quite
the same. Peace is not at all interested in the problems of degraded
memory which preoccupy The Caretaker, Burial or Basinski. His is a
past without crackle, rendered in the first person in a tense that is
very nearly present. The occlusion in the narrative are due, not to
faulty recording devices or memory disorders (cultural or personal)
but to the selfblindings of his characters, who see themselves (and
the events of which they are a part) only through a glass darkly. In
the end, everything narrative, intelligibility succumbs to total murk;
as the characters begin to disassociate, it becomes difficult to know
what is happening, or what has happened; at a certain point, it is
unclear as to whether we have crossed over into the land of the dead.
The libidinal orientation towards the past is also markedly different
in the case of Peace and sonic hauntology: whereas tautological music
has emphasised the unexplored potentials prematurely curtailed in the
periods it invokes, Peace's novels, as we have seen, are driven by the
unexpected suffering of Yorkshire at the end of the 70s. And Peace's
writing is also tautological in its intuition that particular places
are stained by particular occurrences (and vice versa). As he has
insisted in many interviews, it is no accident that Sutcliffe was the
Yorkshire Ripper. Whereas tautological music interrogates nostalgia,
Peace's books are avowedly antinostalgic: counterparts to Life On
Mars, perhaps, with its ambivalence towards police brutality (and its
media representation). There is no such vindication in Peace's novels,
no suppressed yearning for a time in which coppers could beat suspects
with impunity. After all, it is corruption, rather than criminality
per se, that is the focus of the Red Riding Quartet. Music in Peace's
books functions as a tautological trigger. He's remarked that he uses
music, including music he doesn't like, to take him back to the feel,
the grain, of a period. Musical references are embedded in the text
either diegetically, as background sound, or more esoterically, as
crypticepigraphic ciphers and repeated incantations: a portal effect
going that gratifyingly echoes (in reverse) the way in which music of
the 1970s, especially postpunk, would direct listeners to fiction.
(Reading the books alongside Tom Ewing's Popular just now makes for
some interesting juxtapositions since Popular has reached the core
chronotope of Peace's quartet Nineteen Eighty is shadowed by Lennon's
death, and this one makes it into Nineteen Seventy Seven, its disco
chilliness oddly incongruous with Peace's landscape of vice and
sleaze.) As others have noted, Nineteen Eighty is haunted in
particular by Throbbing Gristle, especially the phrase that they took
from another killer, Charles Manson: "can the world be as sad as it
seems? " In Peace's hands, this question becomes an urgent theological
enquiry, the very relentlessness of the sadness and misery he recounts
calling forth an absent God, a God who is experienced as absence, the
great light eclipsed by the world's unending tears. The deeply
ambivalent TGesque preacher Reverend Laws (who, TGlike, replaces "I"
with "E" and "the" with "thee") may be the one who can put us in touch
with this God, the Abandoned Christ who is himself forsaken, the
redeemer who is not the creator. But the world, the sad, desolate
world, is full of angels whose wings have either been shorn off,
reduced to stubble, or which have grown into gigantic, dirty
monstrosities... addict angels hooked on alcohol, casual but incessant
lusts, and the trash of the consumer society that is struggling to be
born out of the wreckage of the Fordist social consensus... angels
whose ultimate response to the world is puking (everyone dukes in
Peace's books), throwing up the whiskies and the undercooked crispy
pancakes, but never being able to purge any of it, never being able to
take flight.Well, quite. This is the most puzzling aspect of the Baby
P moral panic: right wing commentators calling for more state
regulation. It's especially noteworthy since social workers' standard
straw man role in right wing delirium is as gooding meddlers and child
stealers, ready to break up families on the slightest of pretexts.
This is proof, once again, of the essential libidinal function that
public servants play in late capitalism: as figures to be blamed when
things go wrong. Of course, the Baby P story has emerged just as the
Jonathan Ross/ Russell Brand scandal has faded; and the fact that it
coincides with the John Sergeant furore shows how mediamanufactured
outrages produce strange equivalences (appalling child abuse, a
telephone prank gone wrong and a beloved television presenter leaving
a light entertainment TV show are implicitly deemed to be equally
worthy objects of our excited patterns). As Charlie Brooker pointed
out in his Screenwipe programme this week, newspapers, long since
outdone by the web as deliverers of news, increasingly rely on
campaigns to attract readers. But it's no accident, surely, that all
three of these latest campaigns centrally feature public services. I
find myself in slight disagreement with Emmy's typically excellent
post on The Smiths and Owen's response to it (both of which were
reacting to Tom Ewing's Pitchfork essay). It was the "instinctively"
rather than the "antimodern" that I bridled against in the original
review. Morrissey has also struck me as anything but "instinctive";
his stances were always artful as much as heartfelt, everything very
carefully arranged for the gaze of a redeeming Other (who, of course,
would never arrive Morrissey's compact with his audience, the little
others who actually do listen and identify with him, depends on this
consensual lack). Simon's characterisation of Morrissey as being like
one of those awkward adolescents who turns up to teenage party only to
show disdain perfectly the nature of Morrissey's narcissism of
abjection. But I think it would be hard to deny that there was an
anti-modernism in The Smiths. Certainly, Owen is right, Morrissey's
antipathy might have been less to modernity as such than to the modern
as it happened to turn out in Britain (with Thatcherism's championing
of american-style consumer capitalism read as an attack on the
Britishness Morrissey wanted to defend). Still, there's precious
little enthusiasm for modernity of any kind in The Smiths; instead,
Morrissey took refuge in a countermodernity of the recent past. What
he did was fuse elements from this nearest that might have seemed
contradictory at the time (Dallesandro and Delaney, indeed) into a
dreamed consistency, a kitchen sink Glam. The Morrissey that appealed
to me was the queer Morrissey of the early records. There's a theory
of queer to be extrapolated from from the refusal of sexuality,
relationships and work on the likes of "You've Got Everything Now" and
"Still Ill". After this, ruined by success, Morrissey would oscillate
between earnestness and camp without ever attaining again the
anguished high drama of his early assertion of incapacity as heroic
failure. Yet there is a great difference between the two forms of
disavowal the right wing disavowal is pragmatic. In fact it is
questionable whether it is disavowal at all so much as a weighing up
of perceived costs and benefits. In any case, it is not a fetishist
disavowal in that it doesn't take the form of acknowledging facts only
to act as if they were not the case. "Facts" are acknowledged, but
they are deemed to be of less significance than other considerations.
That they are not "facts" at all highlights another key difference
between these forms of denial: for the right wing disavowal, fantasy
lies on the side of the "facts" ("Obama is a Muslim and a terrorist");
for the left, fantasy is on the side of the affirmation "he is our
redemption". That is why the leftist disavowal is certainly of the
fetishist type the point being that "selling out Palestine" really
does contradict "redemption" while "being a terrorist" does not
preclude ibama being "better for the economy". The leftist formula is
properly fantastic in that it is an affirmation made in spite of the
facts, while the right wing disavowal probably indicates the
realignment of political priorities which allowed ibama to win: a new
willingness to set aside the neo-conservative agenda, while
maintaining the commitment to neoliberalism.Two more stimulating posts
from Splintering Bone Ashes, indicating that the cracking pace that
Alex has set shows no signs of letting up. Here are some quick
responses... To take the tautology one first... I think the difference
here lies in our different ideas of the status and purpose of
hauntology. For me, tautology is best conceived of not as some
political aspiration, but rather as a zeitgeist, something which is
already in place and which demands critical commentary (and
extrapolation extension). tautology is not something that is aimed
towards, so much as where we are starting from (the End of History and
its escape). tautological theory is an attempt, for instance, to
account for why the Burial records have captured a mood, a malaise,
this decade. The claim is not that tautology is ultimately preferable
to some accelerationist model of culture (although the Burial records
are in many respects actually superior to the accelerationist Jungle
they spectralise). On the contrary, one of the things that you can
hear in tautology is the spectres of accelerationist itself. To turn
Alex's question about the political correlate of tautology around what
is the cultural equivalent of accelerationist now? It was precisely
the lack of any cultural exemplars of accelerationist that led to
speciality in the first place. The paradoxes that Alex refers to are
not a problem for hauntology; or rather, the problems they indicate
are constitutive of a tautological moment which makes the only
resistance to the nostalgia mode look like a nostalgia for modernism.
tautology is not, therefore, opposed to accelerationism; rather, it is
the only way, at the moment, that culture makes any kind of contact
with it. Neither is there any opposition between "the return of
modernism" that Alex decries and "the arrival of a new (perhaps, or at
the very least) a currently properly unthinkable temporocultural
episteme" which he calls for. What is modernism if not that which
generates a "properly unthinkable temporocultural episteme"? Modernism
(and Badiou's theory of the event has been characterised as a late
arriving philosophy of/ for modernism) can return as a circulated
obsolete style, but it cannon 'return' as the unthinkable novel
without puncturing a hole in postmodernity. Certainly, the issue is
how can we bring about a break of this sort, which returns us to the
question of agency, the central issue in Alex's other new post. If the
problem with tautology is its association with a defeated (and
defeatist) leftism, the problem with accelerationist now might be that
it has no political correlate at all. This might be because "left
Landianism" risks being an impossible confection. Landianism staked
everything on the obsolescence of human agency: Capital was the only
agent worth the name, so any human attempts to intervene in the
process of planetary meltdown would necessarily be futile and
irrelevant. Since politics was tied up with (human) agency, the
'political' itself was defined by forms of prohibition and resistance
to Capital's "horrifying and utter negativity" (it was a case of an
insipid, securityorientated anthropomorphic negativity trying to
contain the sublime, unqualified, inhuman negativity of Capital). But
what would it mean to configure this picture so that human agency
played a role? Would this make any sense at all? Alex comes up with a
striking image: (I can't help hearing this as a mirror image of
Virilo's recent claim that, rather than capitalism nearing its end,
"the end is nearing capitalism".) But who is the pilot in this analogy
(or anticipation diagram)? The question of what a party of inhuman
negativity would look like requires further elaboration, to say the
least. (For more on this, see Plamonenology's very useful post.) Nick
Land needs to be counted as a speculative realist theorist, if only
because he provided a version of Deleuze and Guattari evacuated of any
"pseudobiological vitalis ethology" (but also because Metzinger's
account of identity as a systemic illusion generated from cybernetic
feedback sounds like a detailed elaboration of concepts sketched in
texts such as "Meltdown" and "No Future"). Behind all these
discussions, of course, is the issue of speculative realism's
relationship to politics, if any. (See Speculative Heresy's call for
debate on this.) Is there a way of commensurating the necessarily
human focus of the political with the nonhuman perspective opened up
by SR that will not betray or compromise its fundamental insights?
Following the discussion of Cotard's Syndrome on English Heretic
earlier this year (mentioned here), there's a fascinating essay by
Thomas Metzinger ("Why Are Identity Disorders Interesting To
Philosophers?") which considers the implications for the philosophy of
mind of conditions such as Cotard's. He continues: Metzinger compares
Cotard's with mystical experiences of depersonalization ("the only
other phenomenal stateless in which speakers sometimes consistently
refer to themselves without using the pronoun I"). These are the
ecstatic parallel to Le desire de Ngation's destitution. (Perhaps
there is a parallel between this 'delirum of negation' and the
'generic misanthropy' Dominic has written of.) What's interesting to
Metzinger, of course, is not so much the extreme psychotic states per
se, but what they tell us about the way in which an 'ordinary' sense
of personal identity is constituted. For Metzinger, the statement of
the Cotard's sufferer "I don't exist" is not only possible, it is
true. His neurophenomenology dethroned the idea that personal identity
is any kind of substance or thing. Instead, it is a process which
misrecongises itself as a thing. This is by no means the same as the
standard, kitschNietzschean notion that the self is a process,
because, for Metzinger, the self only exists at the level of false
appearances; it is the way that the process (mis)represents itself to
itself. What happens is a reification of reflexivity we move from
certain patterns of selfmodeling to the self, or, in even shorter
hand, from self to self. (For a detailed precis of Metzinger's Being
NoOne by the author himself, go here; for a discussion of Metzinger
and Kant, see Speculative Heresy.) James Trafford has written of the
congruence of Metzinger's demolition of the self and the work of
Ligotti, in particular the moment of dread revelation in Ligotti's
stories when individuals come to recognise themselves as marionettes
without a master. But I think that there's a broader affinity between
Metzinger's antiphenomenology and the Weird. Like Freud and Lacan but
in a different register, one of Metzinger's achievements might be to
have rendered personal identity as something inherently weird, in
which the seeming depth of the self unravels into a median surface, or
a paradoxical, self-generating geometry worthy of Escher. Ben with
more on acclerationism... He's right to nominate the Lyotard of
Libidinal Economy as the principal champion of accelerationist
capital. Libidinal Economy might itself be characterised as an
acceleration of Deleuze and Guattari. It was Lyotard's diabolical,
scandalous book, and his whole subsequent career could be construed as
a retreat from its incendiary jouissance, an attempt at pious
recantation (or reKantation, perhaps for a discussion of which, see
Iain Hamilton Grant's introduction to his own translation). Libidinal
Economy described capital as a "Frankensteinian surgeon of the
cities", the cybergothic lab from which a modernist proletariat would
grow, a constructivist proletariat whose heroism consisted in its
capacity to machine a new inorganic body for itself, capable of not
only enduring but enjoying the inhuman conditions of the factory; an
amnesiac proletariat that, absolutely devoid of nostalgia for the
earthy cyclicity of peasant life, enjoyed its anonymous pubs, concrete
arcades, and synthetic foods. Yet, in the end, it is was Deleuze and
Guattari who proved to have the better handle on capitalism, precisely
because they insisted on reterritorialization as the necessary
counterpart of capitalist deterritorialization. D/G anticipated the
postmodern condition, not the informatics model proffered by the
later, insouciant, "mature" Lyotard, but the impasse described by
Jameson: capitalism as a future shock absorber as well as a scorched
earth terminator of all traditions and archaisms, operating in a time
of anachronistic conjunctions (genetic engineering labs next to
lovingly reconstructed nineteenth century village greens). The
Frankensteinian surgeon of the cities would eventually disguise its
hideous suturing and improbable juxtapositions behind all manner of
airbrushings and recyclings. Which brings us back to the question of
hauntology. There's no a prior claim that nothing could happen.
Rather, there's an empirical claim that nothing is happening. I defy
anyone to gainsay this, to provide examples of culture (popular or
otherwise) hurtling forward, and I'll be the first to give up the
ghost. The sense that that nothing could ever happen (and, by
depressive extension, the mordant conviction that nothing ever
happened) are more affective responses to this inertia than actual
prognoses. In other words, one of my problem with Alex's post was that
it too hastily conflated tautology with postmodernism (whereas Alex's
claim was, precisely, that tautology is too close to postmodernism).
Postmodernism is, of course, the dead end from which tautology starts
but one of its role is to naturalise what postmodernism has taken for
granted, to conceive of postmodernism as a condition in the sense of a
sickness. You're bound to disagree with my picks, but here's my stab
at 20 Best Jungle for Fact. The real of the financial crisis is real
estate, according to Badiou: if the current crisis proves anything
it's that, although trickle-down of wealth in a boom is an utterly
discredited theory, there is nevertheless a cascading down of ill
fortune in a downturn.  Owen has now weighed in on accelerationism. A
few further thoughts of my own: part of the problem with Splitting
Bone Ashes' argument as I see it is the assumption that the state
inhibits acceleration. It would be better to say that the state is one
for the conditions for capitalist acceleration. As the current crisis
establishes, without the state, capitalism wouldn't reach escape
velocity, it would disintegrate, more likely entrenching into what
Andrew klima on the Marx And The Financial Crisis of 2008 blow calls
"chaos or fascism or warlordism" than dissolving into some
postcapitalist inhuman network. By inhibiting capitalism, the state
enables it to go as fast as is (inhumanly) possible. (Some still
forming thoughts on Xenoeonomics and accelerationism...) Splintering
Bone Ashes' case for an accelerationist capitalism constitutes
something like a left Landianism. Libidinal Economy may be, as
Leniency says, "the book of accelerationism", but Lyotard was then
openly intoxicated with/ by Deleuze and Guattari's AntiOedipus; and
Nick Land's is texts emerged under the euphoric, humanist influence of
both. This was a kind of nihilism without negativity; the only
interdiction was on the negative, in all its senses: the 'No' of a
sclerosis leftism characterised (or caricatured) as eternally
resisting and repressing and the miserabilism of all the parties of
depressive deceleration were to be abjured in favour of the unleashed
full positivity of Capital as monstrous ex nihilo propagator without
limit. The vast, sublime mechanism of Capital as planetary artificial
intelligence would liquidate (the illusion) of human agency: you
either submit and enjoy or act out the dead drama of your own
impotence. Splintering Bone Ashes' Alex describes his leftist spin on
this as follows: Three questions immediately occur. 1. Is this pure
Capital, a Capital without human qualification, an unbound Capital
without a human face, anything more than a fantasy (the fantasy of
Capital itself, perhaps)? Isn't Capital, rather, essentially
constituted by the tension between dissolutionwithoutlimits and
inhibition (I believe that the importance of Deleuze and Guattari's
analysis lies precisely in claiming just that.) But this might be the
point: if the fetters and buffers were removed, we would no longer be
dealing with capitalism at all (further: it is the fetters and buffers
which precisely stop capitalism from mutating into something new and
inhuman). 2. The problem of agency. Let's suppose that such a Thing
could emerge from the husk of late capitalism. One major difference
between SBA's accelerationist and Landianism is over the question of
agency: for Landianism, Capital is the only agent of note, whereas for
SBA, Capital must be assisted to become something else. But what form
would this assistance take? As per Tronti's question about the left
after the demise of the workers' movements, what group subject could
emerge which would be both willing and able to offer it? In the lack
of a collective agent, wouldn't we be back to a kind of theoretical
parlour game that has no consequences? 3. How is it possible 'to
utilise the structures of capitalism against the state' in a way that
does not repeat neoliberalism? Given his scepticism about hauntology,
it would be too cheap a rhetorical strategy to adopt to suggest that
there's a way in which SBA's accelerationist could itself be a trace
(a invocation of certain is and is inhuman forces turned spectres). In
any case, tautology is not, at least not as far as I am concerned, a
political strategy, nor does it preclude other stances or tactics. It
is about responding to what is there or about what absently insists in
what is there. It is best conceived of as a symptomatology, cultural
rather than political (where culture is very much read, naturally, as
a political-economic effect). Alex is therefore right to characterise
tautology as a kind of "good" postmodernism the cultural logic of
capitalism turned against itself. In cultural terms, sadly, is has
been the case that a terminus, perhaps temporarily, has been reached
"that there is nothing else, (at this moment in time at least) that
nothing else is possible". Much as I wish it weren't the case, it
isn't possible to bring back modernism by force of will alone. Simon
Jenkins in The Guardian, with a salutary message for those hailing the
death of capitalism: ... For the record, exactly the same gloating was
heard after the crash of 1987. It too "spelled the death of market
economics". Some interesting responses to my post on positive
thinking, neoliberalism and CBT. During the course of a post that's
well worth reading in its entirety, Ktismatics observes: Meanwhile,
Mark Thwaite at Ready Steady Book writes: But if Steve shapiro and No
Useless Leniency are to be believed, then that's the last thing we can
expect to happen. Both cite Gilbert Achcar's claim that recession
impedes radicalism, and his hope that "that the new period of economic
growth is consolidated so that the new wave of radicalisation which
appears to be taking shape is strengthened." I wouldn't like to
speculate on the likely political effects of the upcoming downturn,
but I would suggest that Anchar's arguments ought to be treated with a
measure of scepticism, since his claims about the possible
radicalising effects of the boom were certainly wrong. "The new period
of economic growth" was consolidated, to the point where it was one of
the longest booms in history, but, far from feeding a growth of
radicalism, this produced an atmosphere of unprecedented political and
cultural conservatism: the "end of history" which anchor attacks Perry
Anderson for invoking. Look at how quaint Anchar's findemillennium
hopes look now: Two novels that  purely by coincidence, or so it would
seem  I happened to read one after the other which both draw on
dreaming, but which emphasise opposite poles of the dreaming
experience. Christopher Priest's A Dream Of Wessex (1977) is about a
collective dreaming project, a government-sponsored initiative to tap
the unconscious in order to come up with solutions to the economic and
political problems that have paralysed the society in the novel's
present day of 1985 . In the projected future world, the USA has
converted to Islam and the UK has been annexed by the Soviet Union.
The result is a strange kind of utopia, in which the bureaucratic
provides a background to the bucolic: the irritations of the Soviet
official machinery seem built into the dreamspace as a necessary
precondition for the aching languor of the Wessex idyll, where
everyday life is suffused by a Mediterranean eroticism. Priest
conjures the atmosphere of a gentle solar trance, broken,
significantly, by small circular mirrors, which are used to trigger
the dreamer's return to the dismal drizzle of the novel's real world.
Once inside the Wessex projection, the participants cannon remember
their real world identities. This means that, although they are
referred to by the same name, the dreamers in the simulation are
different entities from their real world counterparts (just as any
dreamer is a different being from their double in waking life). A
classic case of the Real (of unconscious wishes) versus reality. When
they exit the Wessex simulation, the dreamers are replaced in the
consensual hallucination by placeholder doppelgangers, programmed
selves that, possessing no inner life, only exist for the Others in
the dreamspace. Some of the participants come to recognise the points
at which other dreamers depart from the simulation and come back to
it: something in the other, that which is in them more than themselves
perhaps, disappears or (seemingly miraculously) returns. What the
novel renders especially powerfully is the overwhelming, intoxicating
intensity of erotic connections with a dream Other, the uncanny sense
of recognition, the dea vu of dreamlove. In the case of A Dream Of
Wessex, the sense of recognition between the lovers can be accounted
for by the fact that the two, Julia and David, know each in the
novel's real world; and yet Julia and David are not in love in the
real world, nor is there any suggestion that they would necessarily
fall in love. It is their dreamselves that fall for each other. What
ultimately unsettled the idyll is the kind of reality bleed or
ontological haemorrhage which Priest's later novels all turn around. A
Dream Of Wessex looks forward to Gibson's cyberspace, but it is also a
vision of the is recalled at the bitter end of the 70s. Kazuo
Ishiguro's The consoled (1995) makes contact with another kind of
dream spacetime altogether. The novel is welltitled since it plunges
us, like Alice projected into Wonderland, into a world without
consolation, a world of unrelieved urgencies. This is the first and
most obvious point of contrast with A Dream Of Wessex, where the
official imperatives, both inside and outside the dreamspace, operate
as receding pretexts for libidinal trajectories which depart from
'what should be happening' (this tendency puts the whole project at
risk). In The Unconsoled, the official, too recedes, but assumes now
not the benign quality of the libidinal pretext (the ostensible goal
which allows jouissance to happen precisely by being endlessly missed)
but the tortuous, tantalising, thwarted object whose failure to be
attained casts a pall of terrible anxiety over everything. Upon
arriving in a nameless central European city to give a performance,
the renowned pianist Ryder finds himself assailed by countless demands
which distract him from his official duties, but which he seems
powerless to resist. He must listen to young hopefuls playing the
piano; he must speak to late-night meetings of which he was not
previously aware; he must go to the outskirts of the city and be
photographed in front of a monument whose significance he does not
understand. New agencies are embedded within older urgencies,
endlessly. The consoled is, in part, a pastiche of Kafka, and what
Ishiguro borrows from Kafka above all else is his oneiric geography,
at once bizarre and strangely familiar. Spaces which had seemed to be
very far from another are suddenly revealed to be adjacent; a meeting
hall which Ryder has travelled to turns out to be the very hotel that
he started from. This allows problems which had seemed intractable to
suddenly resolve themselves; yet the solutions bring no relief, for by
now Ryder has been gripped by another urgency. The previous
imperative, once so overwhelmingly important, recedes into irrelevance
at the moment the next one arrives. In The Unconsoled, as in Kafka,
this perverse speciality of contiguity without consistency arises
because all space (and time) is subordinated to the urgency. There is
no time except that of the urgency; and all space is curved by the
urgency (and its frustrations). Obstacles suddenly emerge: most
notably a wall that inexplicably looms up at the last moment
preventing Ryder from getting to the concert hall where he is due to
give his recital. The hectic pace is driven by the improvisational
logic of retrospective confabulation, which is always making sense of
things a moment too late. Ryder is perpetually noticing things that
should have been obvious. As with Kafka, then, The consoled is
coloured by an ingenue's sense of embarrassment. Two opposed methods
of dreaming, then: the one languid, laconic, the other harried,
harassed.The problem with Barbara Ehrenreich's piece on Alternet, "How
Positive Thinking Wrecked The Economy", is its concluding suggestion
that, "[w]hen it comes to how we think, 'negative' is not the only
alternative to 'positive.' As the case histories of depressives show,
consistent pessimism can be just as baseless and deluded as its
opposite. The alternative to both is realism seeing the risks, having
the courage to bear bad news, and being prepared for famine as well as
plenty." The problem is that this has no purchase on the inherently
hyperstitional dynamics of capitalism. If the magical thinking that
ehrenreich decries cannon be considered only delusional, it's because,
in the markets, it's not possible to separate out beliefs from their
objects. Beliefs don't register the true or falsity of propositions;
rather, in the classic hyperstitional self-fulfilling loop, beliefs
themselves determine value (and its destruction, as this metawarning
in The Economist points out). "Realism" isn't an available
orientation. Moreover, the loop works both ways: as Robert schiller
pointed out in Irrational Exuberance, booms produce the euphoric
psychological states necessary for their own maintenance. There's an
interesting parallel between this necessity of positive thinking on
the markets and Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (recently attacked by
adrian Leader in The Guardian). Cognitive Behavioural therapists draw
on data which suggests that most people survive everyday life by
having an inflated idea of their own abilities. "Realism" would
therefore be dysfunctional (and would be likely to lead to
depression), just as "positive thinking" increases people's confidence
and capacities. Leader attacks Cognitive Behavioural Therapy for being
a marketdriven, quick-fix solution to psychological problems which
require longer term (psychoanalytic) treatment, but it is the idea
that positive thinking is mandatory which most closely links
neoliberalism and CBT. One can only share the exasperation of Ads
Without Products about the rash of articles describing the current
bail outs of financial institutions as constituting a leftward turn.
It's puzzling how "a massive transfer of public wealth to the private
sector", how the State buying up bad debts without getting any equity
in return, could be considered the return of leftism. It's capitalist
realism by other means: the only kind of state intervention that is
"possible". This kind of "nationalisation" could only happen to
protect the interests of the speculator class. As Jodi Dean puts it:
This isn't socialism. It's the triumph of neo-liberal dominance of the
state. Watching the third part of Richard Dawkins' recent series The
Genius Of Darwin, I was struck not by the now familiar phenomenon of
Dawkins's libidinal attachment to his adversaries, even though this
was in evidence again (why devote a whole third of the series to
knocking down Darwin's opponents, when he's already destroyed them
numerous times?). No: what was most disconcerting was the final
sequence in which Dawkins met with Daniel Dennett. Here, the claim was
that, not only had evolution undermined the teleological argument for
the existence of God, but that it had revealed a nature which was in
many ways the equivalent of a divine designer. Evolution showed a
natural world rich in complexity and diversity, and a contemplation of
this should be enough to satisfy anyone's spiritual needs: what more
could they (religious believers) want, Dawkins scoffed. Part of the
problem here is the one which cizek touches upon in his occasional
remarks on contemporary Darwininianism: why is that that the advocates
of a punitively mechanistic theory like darwinian evolution end up
using teleological language? This is partly a consequence of the
concept of "natural selection" being (rhetorically) converted from a
negative into a positive thesis. The original negative idea was that
brutal, blind randomness can account for the appearance of purpose in
organisms; there is no need to hypothesise any guiding intelligence at
work in nature, since only those organisms that happen to be adapted
to their environment will survive and prosper. If this seems like a
statement of the screamingly obvious, it is worth reiterating because
it is too often obscured, not by religious thinkers distorting
evolutionary theory, but by darwinians themselves, who, it seems, have
a tendency to be seduced by their own metaphors. 'Natural selection'
was itself something of a reification, which was always in danger of
implying that there was an intentional agent doing the selecting.
Dawkins' own famous images the blind watchmaker, the selfish gene both
imply some degree of purposive intent (the emphasis in the blind
watchmaker ought to have been on the blindness rather than the
watchmaking; the gene has neither a self nor interests which it
pursues, only an idiotic program which it follows). Unfortunately, the
politicisation of the idea of natural selection isn't merely a
rhetorical error, but something that has had theoretical consequences.
Witness, for instance, the most ludicrous claims of evolutionary
psychology, which maintain that practically every human behaviour can
be accounted for in terms of a natural selection held to operate like
some ultraefficient teleological sorting system, ensuring that every
single trait serves some evolutionary function. What is lost here in
is the randomness of the process needless to say, traits can persist
even if they have no positive function, provided there is no selection
pressure against them. In his insistence that evolution had not
destroyed Meaning but, on the contrary, guaranteed it, Dawkins struck
me as precisely the sort of person that was the real target of
Nietzsche's "Parable Of The Madman": not the religious believers, who
are perfectly aware of the traumatic implications of the death of God,
but "those who did not believe in God" who stand around and laugh when
the madman brings his bad news. The Creatonists' horror and
abomination in the face of evolution seems more in keeping with its
mechanistic nihilism than Dawkins's cheery insouciance, his suggestion
that things can go on pretty much the same after Darwin as
before.Simon Jenkins on 2012 in The Guardian. Compare with my piece on
tautology and space at Frieze last week. Compare also with Iain
Sinclair's, for me disappointing, recent piece on 2012 in the LRB; a
squandered opportunity for him to turn out a vigorous polemic, such as
I saw him deliver at Tate Britain last year. 2012 discontent will only
build over the next four years. Even in the immediate wake of "Team
GB's" success in Beijing, the enthusiasm for 2012 has remained
lukewarm in London; partly that's because of English* miserabilism,
the fatalistic assumption that everything produced here must be
overpriced, ersatz, secondrate, halfassed. The Millennium Dome which,
even though it was initiated by Major's Tories, has become the abiding
symbol of the New Labour project has fatally damaged New Labour's
reputation for being able to deliver grandiose projects on time and on
budget. Authoritarian capitalism can deliver a spectacle like the
Beijing games; the sludges and judges of Brown's third way capitalism
will produce something incompetent and vacuous (much like the dismal
handover to London section in the Beijing closing ceremony: a litany
of the clapped-out and the obvious a red bus, David Beckham, Leona
Lewis, Jimmy Page...) There is an opportunity to politicise the anger
against 2012, to convert it from the grumbling miserabilism which
constitutes a ambient backdrop to English cultural life into a focus
of discontent against what Steven shapiro calls "aesthetic
capitalism". Olympic opening ceremonies are classic cases of something
designed for the gaze of the big Other. The being ceremony and Jenkins
is very good on the way that the IOC pushed for a hyperspectacular
opening ceremony to make up for the boring nature of most of the
Olympic sports is now routinely referred to as "breathtaking", but is
there any actual individual whose breath was taken by it? Perhaps it
is in the very nature of pomp that it actually boring, but by
reputation 'awe inspiring'. The displacement of sport whose drama is
fundamentally unpredictable by the rigid predictability of an
efficiently choreographed PR pseudoevent is a whole story in itself.
The Chinese politburo understood that it is what appears on TV that
matters: which is why, in the by now notorious incident, they were
quite happy to replace a young girl singer Voyou's remarks on readings
of The Dark Knight makes some important points about ideology.
Focusing on the supposed "message" of the film  as both neo-
conservative interpretations of the film, and their critics, including
me, do  is in danger of missing the way in which ideology works in
capitalism. The role of capitalist ideology is not to make an explicit
case for something in the way that propaganda does, but to conceal the
fact that the operations of capital do not depend on any sort of
subjectively assumed belief. It is impossible to conceive of fascism
or Stalinism without propaganda but capitalism can proceed perfectly
well, indeed better, without anyone making a case for it. In the
responses to The Dark Knight I posted here, it was Wayne Wedge A
belated three cheers for The Impostume's annihilation of Mike Leigh
Some remarks on the recent bureaucracy post by Alex Williams. Further
in this sense we might think of the period of 19451979 as being the
very cause of the nightmarish restoration of hegemonic capitalist
power that occurred 1979200 (as a buffer zone which repelled genuine
revolution all too effectively, prior to the reassertion of the
ultimate status quo). The state acts as a homeostatic function in this
sense also, not only to restrain the capacious excesses of Capital
unbound, but as a mediating device between capitalism and the
dissatisfaction of the populous at large, a homeostatic safety valve,
producing ameliorative padding for our political-economic cell like a
perfectly functioning machine. We can see this operating even in the
instance of the current crisis in advanced financial capital, (and
this where the notion of "moral hazard" comes into question). If we
are to believe Marx on this (cf: the third volume of Das Kapital, and
I'm not certain we ought to, though he certainly makes some very
interesting observations) credit and investments structured
speculatively on top of this operate as an inversion of Capitalism
from the inside out and within the economic cycle it operates at the
furthest reach of capitalistic expansion, but also as an immanent
limit (again confirming D+G's hypotheses on the limits to Capital).
Put in other terms, this is a decoding of the semiotic consistency of
the money system itself, a detachment into insane lines of speculative
flight, value being born ex nihilo as if conjured from the very ether.
For Marx this is an assault on the basic underpinnings of his
economics, and as such is "the highest form of madness", though we
might posit this as revealing something more fundamental about
capitalism than that (ie where the processes, precisely as a process,
heads towards...). But for the modern state, this "moral hazard"
cannon be allowed to exist, and as such an institution of the size of
Northern Rock or the banks which have collapsed in America recently
are always bailed out by the government or a government-backed private
body. The state as ever acts to patch up the excesses of rampant
Capital, and risks which delivered private profits are immediately
taken into public ownership when they become corrosive. However,
bureaucracy certainly could fulfil a subversive (nay terroristic)
role, indeed this was an idea which occurred to me a while ago to
deploy agents of bureaucratisation within a given body to spread like
cancer the sclerosis of stratification, thereby clogging the arteries
of communication within the body and thereby collapse its ability to
effectively function (in effect a reversal of a Guattarean transverse
institutional analysis, or a deliberate process of serialisation to
use the Sartrean terminology). The historical precedence for this
might be the collapse of Castilian government in Spain due to
excessive bureaucratisation. However this is of course to continue
with the idea of bureaucracy in its current pejorative form, rather
than in the more positive notion of planning. It would be to ride the
already existing processes of government and capitalism, as if in
their slipstream, so as to accelerate them towards a position of
radical dysfunction. Re: the notion of refusal to accept the lack of
overall control (there's no one driving... indeed) this is definitely
the case, and can be seen by the proliferation of conspiracy theories.
The notion that noone is in control of this insane global mechanism is
almost unthinkable, and hence is displaced onto a variety of
(variously) Lizards, Jewish bankers, Illuminati, the no etc. It is
actually more reassuring to think that we are in the hands of some
secret global cabal than the reality, of a vast dispersed atomistic
serial processes, with some larger actors (corporations and investment
institutions) nudging and directing the process in directions which
suit their profitcentred ends. I think that the system is not quite as
diffuse as some might present it, in that it is in the interaction
between atomistic components and institutional actors that the
complexities of the whole arise... The killer line in Momus's riposte
to Adbusters' piece on hipsters is: Whereas I would say the opposite:
the problem with "hipsters" is precisely that they are pathologically
welladjusted, untroubled by sexual anxieties or financial worries.
Vulgar Freudianism is not without its point where is the motivation to
produce art in people who can get any satisfaction they want, at any
time? The very selflessness of these unalienated, guiltfree lives
leaves no material for sublimation. modus anticipates I'm assuming
he's joking about the final option, but that is certainly on the
cards, another example of the interlock between hedonism and ethics
that is practically definitional of contemporary cultural stasis. When
modus cites American Apparel's "nonsweatshop activities" and the fact
that its "advertising keeps low circulation lesbian magazines in
print", it's hard not to be feel the full force of Zizek's
(scandalous) call to withdraw precisely from participation in these
kind of good causes. The idea that these hipsters will go on to become
"visionaries" and "eccentrics", however, strains credibility. No
doubt, some will become "artists", but almost certainly it will be in
that is dullglossy, creativecareerist way which is not a move beyond
hipsterdom, but its continuation. "The spiritual sloth haddon accuses
the hip subculture of", modus continues, "is actually much more
prevalent in the general population, which schweppes about in jeans
and listens to shapeless, floppy music and sleepwalker through
shapeless, floppy jobs." Fair point about the antigua slackness of the
"general population", but the critique that modus makes of Nathan
Barley rebounds here: if Barley was preaching hellfire to the
converted, then the hipsters' refusal of shapeless schlepping is,
similarly, only readable by them. We're not dealing with grand
displays of dandyism but an all-too tasteful micromanipulation of
codes, a narcissism too laconically balanced to ever trip over into
anything so fascinating as obsession, too inhibited to ever register
with the gaze of the "general population", except as a vague
irritation at the periphery of awareness. "Haddow comes over all
purple, all th form apocalyptic", modus complains, but a
toocoolforschool disdain for gaucheness and excess is one of the sad
signs of the hipster syndrome. When youth culture was interesting it
was because of alienation, not pleasureseeking: the sense both that
the young were not adequate to the world and also that the world was
not adequate to them. I am nothing and should be everything. In their
different, and often awkward ways, Metal, Goth and even, God help us,
Emo, are still animated and generated by that sense of abandonment and
maladjustment, still prepared to be deformed and made ridiculous by
their drives and disaffections. They are adolescent, for sure, but
hipster, governed by fear of ridicule, tyrannies by selfconsciousness,
is adolescent in a far worse way. It is too comfortable in the world;
or rather, all its effort goes into simulating the appearance of
comfort. It never entirely rids itself of anxiety, of course, and
worries over status, over measuring up, oil away beneath the
conspicuously apathetic surface, but never in a way that threatens to
undermine a centred sense of belonging and entitlement. All of this
returns us to the discussions on class and resentment from last year.
Being at home (anywhere) in the world is usually one of the privileges
(and markers) of class confidence. The Gavin McInnes' quote
presupposes that resentment against the Last Boys and Girls is somehow
illegitimate. But it strikes me as a classic case of good resentment
precisely the kind of resentment that, unlike the hipster's studied
weltschmerz, could motivate the production of interesting art and
culture. As No Leniency suggests, James Meek's piece on water
privatisation in the lb confirms much of what Owen claimed in this
post. What's clear from Meek's article is the essential libidinal
function that government plays in capitalist realism. It is there to
be blamed precisely for its failure to act as a centralising power,
the anger directed at it much like the fury Thomas Hardy supposedly
spat at God for not existing. "Time and again, Conservative and Labour
governments have discovered that when they give powers to private
companies, and those private companies screw up, voters blame the
government for giving the powers away, rather than the companies for
misusing them. And it is much easier for governments to give powers
away than to get them back." And: It was the same with Northern Rock
of course the media focus quickly fell upon the way that the
government handled the crisis, rather than the bank's behaviour in the
first place, the way in which the catastrophe was connected to wider
banking practice, the role of deregulated finance etc. I don't for a
moment want to excuse New Labour for its part in such fiascos, but it
has to be recognised that this is an act of deflection. Scapegoating
an impotent government (running around to clean up the messes made by
its business friends) arises from bad faith, from a continuing
hostility to the 'nanny state' that nevertheless goes alongside a
refusal to accept the consequences of the sidelining of government in
global capitalism a sign, perhaps, that, at the level of the political
unconscious, it is impossible to accept that there are no overall
controllers, that the closest thing we have to ruling powers now are
nebulous, unaccountable interests exercising corporate
irresponsibility. A case of fetishist disavowal, perhaps "we know
perfectly well that the government is not pulling the strings, but
nevertheless..." The perception that the problem with former
nationalised industries lies with government, rather than private
companies who actually now run them, is as tenacious as it is
widespread. Anecdotal case in point: an incident that happened when
the train was stuck somewhere between Suffolk and London last year.
Two old ladies were sympathising with poor private rail companies for
all the money they were selflessly and generously pumping into the
railways, while castigating the government for starving the railways
of resources. (When I interjected to point out that the railways cost
taxpayers more now than they did when they were in public ownership,
there was an enormously gratifying 'McLuhan in Annie Hall' moment when
a railway worker who happened to me nearby weighed in on my side.)
Meek's article also shows how this connects with a sinister race
narrative, also depressingly widespread in New Labour Britain. A neo-
liberal disaster is somehow the fault of immigrants; mysteriously,
however, there are few if any concerns when money from water rates is
diverted to overseas companies, as Meek, piling on the irony, notes:
Just as "New Labour has managed to claim for itself the worst elements
of bureaucratism meaningless targets, idiot optimism, a contempt for
privacy and an obsession with surveillance and control without a hint
of the benevolent despotism of [bodies like the London Transport
Board]" (Owen), so former nationalised companies betray all the worst
traits attributed to publicly owned bodies arrogance, intransigence
and a monopolistic domination of markets but none of the public
accountability. Water companies answer first to their shareholders,
never to the public (the public having been
liquidated/transformed/fragmented into a mass of consumers with
privatization). Such companies seem peculiarly ill-prepared for when
things go wrong, and, as a consumer in late, late capitalism, you
increasingly exist in two, distinct realities: the one in which the
services are provided without hitch, and another reality entirely, the
crazed Kafka labyrinth of call centres, a world without memory, where
cause and effect connect together in mysterious, unfathomable ways,
where it is miracle that anything ever happens, and you lose hope of
ever passing back over to the other side, where things seem to
function smoothly. (Cf my recent dealings with BT... fill in your own
examples...) One of the most interesting things in Owen's post, of
course, is the audacious bid to revalorise bureaucracy itself. But I
wonder if it isn't planning rather than bureaucracy which is the term
that ought to be valorised. The difference between the LTB programmes
that Owen celebrates and New Labour/ neo-liberal "administration" is
that, in the former case, planning was conceived of as the
origin/support for actual architectural projects; whereas, in the
latter case, bureaucracy is the end goal itself, the beginning and
teleological endpoint of the initiatives. (That is partly why I
believe it is tactically important to retain bureaucracy as a
pejorative to argue that, far from having rid us of bureaucracy, as
promised, neoliberalism has produced this bureaucracyinitself.) New
Labour initiatives are designed to generate PR and statistics, not
real world effects or rather, real world effects matter only insofar
as they register at the level of (PR) appearance. Needless to say,
this is directly homologous with the way value is generated on the
stock exchange, which depends of course not on what a company "really
does", but on perceptions of, and beliefs about, its performance.
Which brings us to Savonarola's analysis of academic curriculum
mortis. The ways in which academic work is evaluated shows that
bureaucracy is not a force "out there", but something inherent to this
mode of immaterial labour. The bureaucratic apparatus and its "aims
and objectives" have to be internalised and incorporated into an
ongoing process, an assessment without end: Some responses to the Dark
Knight post... Savonarola: Scott Duguid: 2) I'm also a big fan of the
Cesar Romero Joker. Who was of course Cuban (and gay, for that
matter). I've not the time to prosecute this at length, but given your
take on the idea of the mask here, its at least worth considering the
racial stakes at play in Romero's Joker makeup. Its hardly a question
of passing, for actor or character. But, still, there is something
about that white-faced in the Joker, and not only in Romero (cf. an
albino isn't even white). Nor, in terms of sexuality, is there a
question of the actor projecting through the mask (as "camp" as
sixties Batman gets, his is in no sense a nelly Joker). (CONTAINS DARK
KNIGHT SPOILERS)Apparently, it is. "I am very lucky to be in the
possession of what I at times think of as a 'haunted' camera," Clean
Eyes wrote to me, in response to my somewhat cursory observations on
photography in the 2012/ tautology post. "To give you some empirical
info," he continues, "I am very much an amateur, I don't develop the
work myself and to my knowledge it is only the eccentricities of the
machine I use which create such occasionally uncanny results." Clean
Eyes' pictures of cities as construction sites have a deep resonance
with Marshall Berman's All That Is Solid That Melts Into Air, which
I'm ashamed to say I read for the first time only very recently,
prompted by its being used as the epigraph to Jon Savage's Joy
Division documentary. Berman's observations on the interplay of
modernism, modernity and modernization, in fact, were roughly
contemporaneous with the shift into post-fordism at the end of the is
that Joy Division's records converted into harrowing black and white
expressionism. Berman's own first encounter with modernization was
early, and traumatic: he had seen his own neighbourhood in the Bronx
literally cut in two by a cubist expressway driven through by
architect Robert Moses, whom he characterises as "the latest in a long
line of titanic builders and destroyers", including Louis XIV, Peter
the Great, Stalin, Faust, Ahab, Kurtz, Citizen Kane. "For ten years,
through the 1950s and early 1960s," Berman remembered, "the center of
the Bronx was pounded and blasted and smashed. My friends and I would
stand on the parapet of the Grand Concourse, where 174th Street had
been, and survey the work's progress  the immense steam shovels and
bulldozers and timber and steel beams, the hundreds of workers in
their variously colored hard hats, the giant cranes reaching far above
the Bronx's tallest roofs, the dynamite blasts and tremors, the wild,
jagged crags of rock newly torn, the vistas of devastation stretching
for miles to the east and as far as the eye could see  and marvel to
see our very ordinary nice neighborhood transformed into sublime,
spectacular ruins." Yet Berman's response to modernization and to
Moses is valuable because of its nuance: the Moses expressway is not
the sole route that modernization could take, although in a gambit
that will become characteristic of neoliberalism it presents itself as
such. To resist such developments was, its opponents were bullying
told, to stand against modernization itself; but Berman wants to keep
hold of another modernism a modernism not of the motorway, but of the
street and the public space. His account of modernism is above all an
account of different streets: Baudelaire's (and later Benjamin's)
Paris boulevards; the Nevsky Prospect in Petersburg, where Gogol's
characters wandered in a phantasmagoria haze and Dostoyevsky's
Underground Man challenged the officer, his supposed superior, and in
that challenge pathetic and hopeless as it at first sight seems made
himself and a whole hierarchical social structure suddenly visible,
and hence capable of being overturned. Berman was deeply suspicious of
postmodern theory, because he thought that modernity had not been
superceded. What he couldn't quite see in 1982 it would take Jameson
and Harvey's interventions later in the decade to demonstrate this was
the way in which the modernist expressway would lead into the cul-de-
sac of postmodernism, in which perpetual instability "they are
rebuilding the city, yes always" becomes decoupled from cultural
innovation. When all that is solid melts into air, the eventual result
is not the sublime decimation that Berman witnessed in the Bronx, but
the lure of simulation: Dick's reconstructed small town America and
Prince Charles' ye olde English villages lie ahead, their "timeless
charm" covering over the implacable churn of the abyssal excavators
always working behind the screens. the busier you are/ the less you
see Jane Jacobs emerges in Berman's account as an ambivalent figure.
She is a corrective to Robert Moses's Kanesianism, her delineation of
"the ecology and phenomenology of the sidewalks" a woman'seye
alternative to the Olympian planners' gaze which conceives of people
as an obstruction, as Moses did. (As Berman reconstructs it, Jacobs'
vision of the city as "a vast informal network" of shopkeepers and
tradespeople, of a cycle of tiny routines, reminds me of nothing so
much as Grace Jones' "The Apple Stretching".) At the same time,
though, Berman recognised that the "undertow of nostalgia for a family
and a neighborhood in which the self could be securely embedded" in
Jacobs' work make it ripe for appropriation by the New Right. Hence
Jacobs' pivotal role alongside Jonathan Raban's Soft City in Harvey's
The Condition Of Postmodernity later. Their quiet polemic against
planning, their celebration of the city as a shifting dance, helps to
prepare the way for a postmodernism which has photoshopped out the
kind of public and popular modernism which Berman celebrated. Jacobs'
emphasis on a "feminine" city and the domestic sphere presage an
ideological shift the occlusion of the public by the family (which is
resurgent at the level of ideology in part because it is shattered
empirically). There's a great deal still to be said about the way in
which a certain "feminisation" of culture the fixation on emotions,
domesticity and personal grooming has been essential to the
ideological destruction of the concept of the public over the last
thirty years. So we're back to hauntology. And Berman was already
there, in 1982, when, as his book moves towards its close, he is
calling up ghosts not rural revenants, but the ghosts of past
modernisms and their unfulfilled promises: he ruefully notes that,
part of what was destroyed by Moses' expressway was nothing other than
older versions of modernism. In his introduction, Berman invokes
Brasilia, a city, like Petersburg, built ex nihilo but without any
public squares. Once it was the dictators who sought to eliminate
public space; but the destroyer of public space now, cloaked in the
language of 'choice', 'diversity' and 'interaction', is the wireless
capsule of the piloted OedIPod... Welcome to Liberty City... (being a
belated plug for the July issue of The Wire) "I grew up in a family
where psychic stuff was normal," Mark Stewart told me when I
interviewed him for The Wire. "My grandmother was a clairvoyant and we
would have sessions every Sunday when we were kids." I didn't end up
including this in the feature, but it strikes me that one link between
the post-punk trio I wrote about in the July issue (Stewart, Mark E
Smith, Ian Curtis) is channeling. In order to get at what is at stake
in socalled psychic phenomena (and its relationship to performance and
writing), it's necessary to chart a middle course between credulous
belief in the supernatural and the tendency to relegate any such
discussion to metaphor: being taken over by other voices is a real
process, even if there is no spiritual substance. The most disquieting
section of the Joy Division documentary is the cassette recording of
Curtis being hypnotised. It's disturbing, in part because you suspect
that it is many ways the key to Curtis's art of performance: his
capacity to evacuate his self, to "travel far and wide through many
different times". You don't have to believe that he has been regressed
into a past life in order to recognise that he is not there, that he
has gone somewhere else: you can hear the absence in Curtis's comatose
voice, stripped of familiar emotional textures. He has gone to some
zone where Law is written, the Land Of The Dead. Hence another take on
the old 'death of the author' riff: the real author is the one who can
break the connection with his lifeworld self, become a shell and a
conduit which other voices, outside forces, can temporarily occupy.
Mark E Smith once understood this very well; perhaps still understands
it, even now, sitting at the bar at the end of the universe, his
psychic antenna dulled by booze. In a very different way to Curtis,
Smith at his most incendiary was a personalised host for stray,
strange signal. Where Curtis's dispossession was concentrated into a
single and singular voice that sounded as if it was already dead,
Smith became a cacophony, an 'ESP medium of discord', a damaged
transmitter that was like Baudrillard's schizophrenic: a switching
centre for all the networks of influence. That is partly why the Smith
'auto' 'biography' is so disappointing. Biography is an end of history
form, deflationary and reductive in its rush to reassure us that it
was always about people. The point that artists come to believe it it
is all about them and not about their ability to channel externalities
which erased them is usually the point at which they lose it. The Joy
Division documentary succeeds in a way that neither Control nor the
Mark E Smith biography did not, precisely because it resists this
biographical closure. It emphasises the difference the absolute
difference between Curtis the biographical subject and Curtis the
singer. Carl was right to say that, in Control, "Curtis isnt seen from
anyones perspective but his own". But 'his own perspective' is very
far from being the subjectively destitute perspective of the music,
the art. The naturalistic distance that Control adopts keeps us
outside all that; with the result that the focus on Curtis makes him
seem not sympathetic but selfcentred, and inexplicably so. There's
very little sense of what it was that captured him, what drove him and
rode him, the dreadful euphoric trips out of his self to which he was
addicted. Voices, naturalised voices ... Curtis, Stewart and Smith all
deprive the voice of its homeliness and its worldliness. Curtis
because his voice was so sepulchurally cold; Stewart because his voice
is so hot, so inflammatory. Fire, speak with me ... As I try to argue
in the Stewart feature, Stewart remains an incendiary presence live
because of his ability to channel rage and utopian longings ("one
spark can start a prairie fire"), to set aside the etiquette of 'being
a person', someone who is selfpossessed, as represented in the usual
expressive repertoire of a singer. The sound of the impossible being
demanded as a resistance to the dreary certainties of capitalist
realism. "The fact of its incompleteness was bigger than its
existence." Christopher Priest, The Affirmation There's a party for my
(landmark) birthday next Saturday (12th July) in Greenwich. Any reader
who wants to go, email me and I'll send you the details. Masks
optional.'It's as if Brown reads your blow and wants to give you more
material to work with!,' writes a reader, of GB's latest, typically
creepy, 'interactive' initiative. A classic example of brownie digital
doublethink, since 'Ask The PM' actually amounts to 'Listen To The
PM', the comments facility having been disabled. But what gave the
impression that Brown was bending over backwards to conform my
description of him was this 'leaked' story that he has been mooted as
the star of 'an Apprenticestyle TV show for young politicians'
bringing him ever closer to the android President in Dick's Simulacra,
who maintains power through the use of talent shows in the White
House. Meanwhile, Savonarola's diagnosis of the Italian left's malaise
horribly parallels the situation in Britain, where New Labour's
abandonment of class antagonism has both allowed class politics to be
displaced into race, and enabled the Far Right to claim that it is now
the only authentic representative of working class resentment: My
presentation from yesterday's astonishingly successful tautology event
at the Museum of Garden History. Thanks to everyone who
attended....Like The Fall piece below, the presentation is somewhat
shorter than I had originally envisaged it, for the same reason. (For
Nick Kilroy) (Photograph by Nick Kilroy, from Zabriskie Point) There
was no future, but it wasnt like anyone expected. 2003. Were wandering
through the industrial spectres and overgrown dereliction of the Lea
Valley. Its like the world has ended.A world has ended here, in fact.
But now nonhuman worlds them and thrive amid the deserted factories
and the wastestrata. Feral plants, algae so thick and
artificiallooking youd swear you could walk across the canal on it. It
is not a space that humans live in any more. But it is a space they
explore. Most of us there that day had alternative names. space names.
Nick K, Woebot, Heronbone. Heronbone shows us a social history in the
form of discarded packaging from defunct commodities. They call
Heronbone the bard of Stratford  this is his patch, his Waste Land,
and many of his words are assembled from discards, fragments of Grime
lyrics recalled from the pirates, observations of insect colonies,
flights of fancy prompted by this desolate space. Nick K is ablaze
with projects and schemes, his photographers eye captured by images
every few minutes. Photography is a darker art than most people
routinely suspect. The visionary photographer can find the image, but
they cannon necessarily see everything that is recessed in it. Most
photographs act as mirrors, reflecting back the past into a frozen
present. But some make contact with more mysterious dimensions of
time. The "traces and clues of things to come". Futures bleeding back.
Omens that can only be read retrospectively. Sometimes there are signs
but noone who can read them. 2007. Other stalkers are moving through
the scurf space we had traversed four years before.Repetition, with a
difference. The perimeter of the Olympic site is now secured by a
plywood fence that is left high, around four miles long, bright blue
in colour and chinkless. In places it is doublebanked, in others it is
topped by razor or barbedwire. The ODA began its construction last
spring, and the last sections were put into place in July. The fence
is a barrier designed to exclude not only access, but also vision.
There are no viewing windows built into it, no portholes for the
curious stakeholder. To see inside the zone, you must ascend a
Stratford towerblock, hire a helicopter, or the desideratum visit the
ODA's website, which provides stills of the construction process and
mocked futuramas of the park (lightglinted buildings, sparkling water
features, happy munching people). (Being an unfinished version of the
paper I was due to present at The Fall conference in Salford last
Friday, but which I couldn't attend due to family bereavement) I keep
bottles and comics stuffed by its head... Day by day The Moon gains on
rehouse Of Mystery cover from coverbrowser (thanks to Karl Kraft for
the link) Lets start with the line itself: The place I made the
purchase no longer exists. Already, even taken in isolation like this,
the line is charged with associations, generic rather than specific.
You think, perhaps, of portmanteau Horror flicks of the type which
used to centre on an antique shop. The shop, of course, is on some
side street that you havent noticed before. But today you find
yourself drawn to the slightly shabby street, already strangely
deserted though it is still only mid afternoon. Something about the
items in the window of the antique shop draws your attention: on the
face of it, there is nothing terribly odd about the wooden and glass
objects on display, but something about them does not feel quite
right, in a way that is slightly ominous but also enticing. You enter:
the door triggers a loud bell, but the owner does not appear from the
back of the shop yet. Your misgivings multiply, but they are easily
overwhelmed by a sense of fascination. You are entranced by one
particular object an ornate, ebony mirror, perhaps, or a squat idol
when youre shaken by a voice. The owners. He looks like Peter Cushing:
kindly, eminently polite but with an edge of condescension and menace,
an obsequious tempter. You are easily persuaded to buy the object to
which you were drawn. You leave. Things immediately go awry. You have
to explain to what you laughingly call your loved one why you have
bought home an object that is so It makes them feel uneasy. They dont
want it in the house. You turn on them angrily. All of the seething
spite and resentment in your failing marriage becomes focused through
the Thing. You must keep it. At night, you start to feel that the
object is mutely watching you, sizing you up. As the days go on, your
marriage finally disintegrates. Youre left on your own with the Thing.
Its altering you, preparing the way for something terrible. Its going
to make you into its puppet, to use you as its eyes. You dont want to
look at it any more. You cover it with the dark sheet that the
shopkeeper had wrapped it in. Sweating, delirious, you snap at
strangers in the street who recoil aghast. You return to the street
where the shop was situated. The same shabbiness. Except now there is
no antiques shop. It doesnt look like there ever had been. The two
nondescript houses that had been either side of the shop remain, but
the place you made the purchase no longer exists. It isnt there, but
the Thing  this portal to the Outside  remains. Its yours now,
forever. There is nowhere to return it to. You might call a story like
that clichd. But formulaic would be a better word. Variations of this
formula were used, not only in portmanteau Horror films, but fiction
anthologies (of the type which New English Library used to turn out),
TV programmes (as varied as The Twilight Zone and Tales Of The
Unexpected), and also comics (the old EC titles, and their later
imitations, such as DCs House Of Mystery and Weird War). The place I
made the purchase no longer exists When you hear the line, it carries
all this with it. Superficially, you could construe it as an empty act
of referencing, of postmodern playfulness, pastiche. Just a joke, a
laff, commensurate with clip show conviviality. A knowing nod to what
we used to watch from the End of History. Sometimes The Fall have been
heard in this spirit, increasingly so as the Mark E Smith persona has
solidified, become a national treasure. Mark E Smith, the sort of no-
nonsense bloke everyone would like to have a drink with. A fancied
wit, still sharp, sarcastic hed keep you on your toes but at the end
of the day, hes as rubbish and bookish as his onetime mentor John
Peel, only with added prole cred. Mark E Smith, who gives his own life
story to a culture in which biography has passively aggressively
deranged fiction. See, we can explain it all now. True life tales.
Nothing odd to see here. This Mark E Smith is a doppelganger who has
gradually all but replaced Mark E Smith the psychic and the
schizophrenic, the righteous maelstrom, the dissonant vorticist
transmitter who heard voices and spoke in tongues, the medium and
mediachanneler. The Mark E Smith who could make himself a riot of
voices. People think of themselves too much as one person  they dont
know what to do with the other people that enter their heads. Behind
the autobiography, theres a Weird tale in itself. Or rather a tale
about how the Weird ends up mired in the mundane. The Man Whose Head
Diminished. Smiths own fate looks like that of roman total in reverse.
If total was a cabaret entertainer become sorcerer, Smith is a lapsed
sorcerer turned celebrated cabaret star, licensed fool on the BBC,
licensed prole (in The Guardian). total was last seen in his Faery
bunker, a tactical retreat that became a permanent exile, ritual
macpaint devolving into Pierrot makeup dripping down his chin. So R
total dwells undergroundAway from sickly grindWith ostrich
headdressFace a mess, covered in feathersOrange red with blue black
linesman light blue plant heads Smith foresaw it all, when he was
still distilling televisionary psychic signals into Wyndham Lewis
headline tickertext. Foreseeing it, he told the same story many ways.
At a certain point the powers will start to wane. The voices that
speak through you will no longer make themselves heard. The words will
not come. Your eyes will blink open and you will find yourself trapped
in the most miserable reality, no longer able to make it take flight,
or to yourself flee it. When all those regresses into other worlds
recede, then this world will close around you, greasy with fried
chicken fat, glossy with discarded celebrity trash, as seamless as a
shopping mall, as interminable as a dreary videotape to which there is
no level 2. So now I sleep in ditchesAnd hide away from nosy kids
Smith the televisionary telepath foresaw it all, dreaded it, even as
he could perhaps already feel it beginning even then. The signal
coming through a scanner, increasingly dimly. So he flashed forward to
these pictures of the maimed sorcererking become an addled old soak,
mumbling stories for the amusement of laughing children. A gutted
Icarus cast back to cursed earth, grounded in the gutter. The wings
rot and feather under metre wings rot and curl right under me After a
while it will even seem to you that the derisive laughter is
justified, that there was nothing there. That it was all a bit
fanciful, that nothing really happened, or ever could. The place I
made the purchase no longer exists. When this line occurs, it is not a
pallid act of citation, but an invocation and a triggering. The
formulas of Weird fiction function in a similar way  they are
repetitions that carry with them some of the power of previous
iterations. These fictions about portals are themselves portals,
connecting to other fictions, but also to other worlds. Sometimes it
is difficult to know the difference, difficult to establish the
precise point that a fiction becomes a world, or that a fiction
infects and infests a world. The notion of portals connecting worlds
is crucial to the Weird, perhaps even definitional of it. As
preeminent cases of Weird writers, lets call up hovercraft and Philip
K Dick. Lovecrafts innovation was to locate cosmic wonder and dread in
his own New England backyard, and it was the juxtaposition of the
abyssal and the quotidian that gave his fictions much of their
thrilling charge. Ontological juxtaposition bring us close to the very
essence of the Weird. There is no Weirdinitself. The Weird, rather,
consists precisely in the bringing together of Things which do not
belong in the same place. The out of space and the out of time. This
depends, of course, on a certain notion of what does belong: the
ordinary world that will ultimately be invaded, its empiricist
philosophy overthrown. The formal correlate of this ordinary world is
a realism that will by the end of the tale be overwhelmed by a
heightened cosmic delirialism, foaming with adjectives which, in their
hyperbolic accretion, far from elucidating the weird object, make it
more and more intractable. What facilitates the aberrant mixes in
Lovecrafts tales are thresholds, places of contact between this world
and others. Sometimes these thresholds are literal, albeit mystical,
doorways; but more often than not the threshold is a book. Dicks
fictions also turn upon the idea of multiple, commensurate worlds. In
Dicks case, more so than Lovecrafts, these worlds cannon be construed
as different spaces, but as alternative realities, different
ontological options. Viewed one way, these realities can appear to be
epistemologically determined, the products of various technologies,
influences or aptitudes  hallucinogenic drugs, the media, fiction
itself, precognition. But the conundrum Dicks most powerful novels
pose cannon be definitively resolved via any of these epistemological
motivations. It is not the perception of reality that is warped in
Dicks fictions; it is reality itself. Or, better, any notion of
reality itself comes under threat, fractures into a multiplicity of
worlds. As Brian McHale suggests in his Postmodernist Fiction, a text
like Dicks rubik is best understood in ontological terms, as a kind of
equivalent in fiction of an Escher painting: a tangle of overlapping
incompatibilities. McHales analysis of postmodernist fiction places
the notion of worlds  worlds within worlds, worlds next door  at its
heart. This is where McHales account of postmodernist fiction crosses
into the Weird as I have tried to outline it. But, whereas
postmodernist fiction in its most anodyne and academic renditions
ultimately collapses all worlds into texts, the Weird goes in the
other direction: texts become worlds and portals between worlds. In
Lovecraft, as I have already suggested, books open up holes in the
mundane, points of weakness in the fabric of our world where outside
forces can invade. For Lovecraft, make no mistake, there is no more
dangerous activity than research. But where postmodernist fiction is
usually associated with literary fiction, the Weird is typically
disseminated in pulp formats: magazines, paperbacks, comics, TV,
bmovies. Mark E Smiths most distinctive texts echo both hovercraft and
Dicks methodology. According to caricature, The Fall proffer a
naturalism whose dreariness is leavened only by its humour. But it was
only in their earliest mode that The Fall were comic naturalists,
introducing an amphetaminedriven garage punk to the bingo halls,
industrial estates and cracker factories of Northern England. By the
time of Dragnet, The Fall were seeing the same Northern vistas through
the filter of Weird fiction. Manchester tenements were now haunted by
Roman spectres. Ghostly figures follow you down the Salford streets.
Impression Of J Temperance and Jawbone And The Air Rifle, from
Grotesque and Hex induction Hour, compress Weird tales into a
distorted, Northern rock. By now, Smith has repeated what hovercraft
had achieved  relocating the bizarre and the anomalous in his own
neighbourhood. It is precisely the disjunction between the Manchester
estates that stick up like stacks and the hideous replicas and haunted
jawbones which generates the effect of Weirdness. Taken as a whole,
Grotesque and Hex induction Hour are themselves weird objects:
unplaceable, intractable, they are confections of things which should
not belong together. Epilogue: The alternative afterlife of Roman
total Wandering through the franchise coffee bars in the reconstructed
centre of Manchester  the Arndale had been razed, his visions hadnt
led him astray there total tentatively fingers the wounds. Things have
got very confusing since they put him on the antipsychotics. Once he
had thought that the abrasions were the scars left from a
tentaclectomy, imposed on him by a psycho mafia who wanted to block
his Faery revolution. He hoped to overthrow the sickly grind, dreamed
that he could preside over a kingdom of the grotesque and aberrant:
hobgoblins in the shopping centres, golem stalking the council
estates. But he had been assured that this was all a particularly
florid delusion. The marks all over his body had been the result of a
nasty selfharming habit. But things were better now. They told him to
stay away from the secondhand bookshops, to watch TV in moderation,
and then only the right kinds of programmes about DIY, interior
design, diet, these were harmless, in fact the doctor encouraged him
to watch shows such as these, hoping, he said, that they would
encourage Mr total to take more interest in his appearance, to look
after himself properly. But even when total did lapse and go hunting
for the, it was only the old programmes, the ones he found cycling
round on the cable channels, that triggered anything, phantom flashes,
breakthroughs in a grey room. It used to be that he could easily find
the psychic channel, wherever it was. But the new stuff was the
opposite of a portal: a bad mirror, its surface cold and unyielding,
capturing him in the world of his reflection. It and the drugs made it
so he could no longer see himself as he once had. Fragments of a
voice. Absurdly high pitched, smurflike. Roman, Roman, dont you know
youre dead? Theres no way back. The place I made the purchase no
longer existsGordon Browns appearance on American Idol a couple of
weeks ago brings us ever closer to the situation described in Philip K
Dicks The Simulacra, in which advancement into the elite is achieved
through talent shows held in the White House. It increasingly seems as
if Dick did not so much predict the future as dream it in advance. The
world of The Simulacra in which politics has merged with talent
competitions, in which drugs are the mandatory treatment for mental
illness (the novel begins with the outlawing of psychoanalysis), and
in which affectivetelepathic aliens called paula are put in the
service of salesmen of every type to directly manipulate the emotions
of customers  looks eerily like our world, subjected to oneiric
distortion, displacement and condensation.Brown (extensively) and Dick
(glancingly) both feature in Gordon Burns Born Yesterday: The News As
A Novel, though they are not ever directly linked together. It is when
he is reflecting on Kate McCann, that Burn mentions Dicks Do Androids
Dream Of Electric Sheep. The conviction, Burn observes, given wide
expression in the press and across the blogosphere, that Kate McCann
was hardly human in the cool and controlled way she behaved in the
televised appeals for information about Madeleine and in the attention
she gave to her clothes and hair and other aspects of her appearance
in the face of catastrophe, clearly implied she must be implicated in
some way in the disappearance of her daughter. The chief
characteristic of androids is their lack of empathy. Because androids
cannon feel empathy, their responses are either missing, or when
faked, measurably slower than those of genuine human beings. Me, I
disconnect from you It seems that Brown is the opposite case  eerily
inhuman not because of a failure to exhibit empathy, but because of
his incapacity to elicit it. Despite suffering personal tragedy in
recent years, Brown has been singularly unable to make the public feel
for him. This is one of many striking contrasts with his predecessor.
If Blair was the papula, someone whose preferred medium is feelings
(which can be both attitudinal certain yet conceptually nebulous),
Brown is the gauche and unconvincing android  not so much an analogue
politician in a digital age, as Burn has it, or rather not just that,
but a man who can neither respond to, nor perform, the required
emotional cues. There have been rumours, always emphatically denied,
that Brown suffers from Aspergers Syndrome (a condition, incidentally,
with which the PKDadoring, androididentifying Gary Numan, meanwhile,
has recently been diagnosed). Watching Brown struggling to cloud his
countenance, Burn writes, became the recurring bad sight of the year:
a carcass moment waiting to happen at each and every photoop. Brown
radiates discomfort in the way that Blair transmitted ease. Blairs
vacuous charisma compelled attention, even as it induced hatred; but
Brown is unbearable to watch. There is a fundamental wrongness about
Brown that raises a shudder, a faint disgust. Even the phrase the
Prime Minister, Gordon Brown sounds wrong. It is always like that for
a short period after the departure of a Prime Minister who has been in
power for a long time, as you becomes used to the new incumbent being
identified with the office, but with Brown, the sense of wrongness is
more than a short term effect. There is something inherently wrong
about Brown. His becoming Prime Minister is akin to a couture
fantasist suddenly being propelled onto a stadium stage. He doesnt
belong. It shouldnt have happened. The hollow man and the hollowed
man. In the brief, false dawn of the Brown bounce, Brown profited
because the loathing of Blair  stoked by the interminable self-
congratulation of his protracted departure  was so great, and because,
at that time, it was still possible to make the new PMs inadequacies
seem like strengths. According to the metaspin  spin against spin,
spin that denied that it was spin  Gordons sourness connoted all the
substance and depth that Teflon Tony, the man without a shadow, had
spirited way. Spin against spin, indeed: the slogan that Alistair
Campbell had intended to be damning of Brown  Not flash, just Gordon
captured Browns appeal at the time of the bounce. In this initial
period  Brown distancing himself from Bush while appearing on the
steps of Downing Street with Thatcher  it seemed that Brown could
repeat Blairs performance of being a man for all, now with added Old
Labour weight: he would be authentic oak in place of Tonys shiny
Teflon. But the only thing that is Old Labour about Brown is his
discomfort with new media; as John essinger argued in this article in
International Socialism, written at a time when Brown could still be
made to appear more left-leaning that Blair, businessfriendly Brown is
a thoroughgoing market Stalinist. The smoke and mirrors which shrouded
Browns early days as PM implied an Escheresque topology, in which
Gordon could be both left and right at once. But whereas Blair  who
presented the strange spectacle of a postmodern messianic never had
any beliefs that he had to recant on, Browns move from Presbyterian
socialist to New Labour supremo has been a long, arduous and painful
process of repudiation and denial. As essinger argued, Whereas, for
Blair, the embrace of neoliberalism involved no great personal
struggle because he had no previous beliefs to dispose of, for Brown
it involved a deliberate decision to change sides. The effort, one
suspects, damaged his personality. Blair was the Last Man by nature
and inclination; Brown has become the Last Man, the dwarf at the End
of History, by force of will. The android has replaced all his
internal components, decommissioning and updating his instinctive and
affective defaults, even constructing for himself some false memories.
Tell us about your mother, Gordon. All of those confabulations and
reinventions, and still, it doesnt convince. It all looks wrong. Burn:
The separation between was he was saying and what his face was doing
added up to a disturbing disjunction. The result was sinister.
Pathological. Blair, buffer up with Public School selfbelief, the man
without a chest (but with a mediafriendly torso), the outsider the
party needed in order to get into power, his joker hysterical face
salesmansmooth; Browns implausible act of selfreinvention is what the
party itself had to go through, his fakesmile grimace the objective
correlative of Labours real state now: gutted, and gutless, its
insides replaced by simulacra which once looked lustrous but now
possesses all the allure of decadeold computer technology. It wouldnt
be surprising if reports that Brown is depressed turned out to be
true. Brown is tragic but not heroic: a Prufrock without the self-
awareness and the humility, someone born to play the part of attendant
lord now finding himself cast in the role of dithering Hamlet. Partly,
his tragedy is the tragedy of desire realised. The role he seems most
fitted to play  glowering just off centre stage, plotting behind the
scenes  brought with it the rich, heady jouissance of resentment.
Brown could relish this jouissance only while his official goal was
thwarted; just as he could exert power without holding it, the shadow
of the man without a shadow, the black dog forever at the hollow mans
heels, supping on every missed and mishap. But now Brown has exactly
what he always wanted, and what could be worse than that? The
melancholy that follows from finally achieving what that he has
coveted all those years, from at last having his newly manicured
fingers on the holy grail for the sake of which he has spent thirty
years constructing a new identity and a new set of values, must be
profound. Especially when the grail so quickly become a poisoned
chalice. And not only in terms of Browns own libidinal economy, which
must have crashed the moment that the previously unattainable was
suddenly thrust into his grasp. There were external signs, too: some
of the things which afflicted Brown appeared to be ill-fated
coincidences, but some were entirely predictable consequences of
neoliberalisms indulgence of business. Browns accession to the
premiership coincided with flood and pestilence, Biblical portents
which the pathetic fallacy notwithstanding  seemed to point to his
wrongness as unequivocally as the Plague which beset Thebes when
cursed Oedipus became king. And then there was Northern Rock and the
credit crunch. And here is Gordon, always the wrong man at the wrong
time. Burn: [A]s the months ticked past  the Brown bounce in the polls
crashing by November into a point deficit; the honeymoon souring, the
smile hung on the damaged face muscles growing ever more beserk, ever
more pleading; hair colour warmed up and toned down, hair newly
volumised and singled  Nixon is the politician Brown came to
increasingly resemble. Nixon: a figure who  from his sweating failure
to perform against slick Kennedy to his later Watergate tapings,
deceptions and denials  seemed to shadow the work of Dick (in much the
same way as Ballards best Sixties work was haunted by the
assassination of JFK). Dicks fleeting appearance in Born Yesterday
belies a deeper affinity between Burns methodology and Dicks
preoccupations. Born Yesterday had been framed in advance by
Guardianistas as a commentary on the replacement of news with
entertainment; very old news indeed to a reader of Dick or
Baudrillard. Burn commented that he read Mark Lawsons anticipatory
gloss on a book that he had not yet completed with some anxiety: was
he doing what Lawson said he was? Burns subtitle is of course
deliberately ambiguous: what does that as mean? Was Burn presenting
the news in the form of a novel? Or was he showing that the news was
already a novel? In the event, the subtitle is misleading: Burns book
is not a novel, and neither is the news that is its subject. The
wearisome descriptions of Born Yesterday as blurring the boundaries
between fact and fiction miss the point that Burns book does no such
thing; there are few if any speculative leaps into the minds of
characters, no fabricated events, and no real plot to speak of.
Besides, as Dick and Baudrillard long ago realised  this is the very
definition of the hyperreal  fact and fiction are complexly and by now
intimately entangled with one another in a way that makes all talk of
the boundaries between the two blurring seem somewhat quaint. Yet, at
the same time, Born Yesterday is not a work of journalism or
commentary. Burn manipulates news as a found object in a way that is
reminiscent of Chris Marker: closing in on particular images, phrases
and facts, rewinding and freezeframing them, as he identifies  or is
it induces? correspondences, associations and echoes between figures
and events that, to a casual eye, seemed to be connected only via the
contingency of happenstance. Burns is a Gnostic art, and Born
Yesterday is a work of hypnotic Hermetic ingenuity which suggests
patterns that have been weaved, if they have been weaved at all, not
by human conspiracies, but by stranger forces altogether. If you speak
poststructuralese, Euston was a "plateau" I suppose. The free paper
plague is infesting all areas of London life. From dawn to dusk...
Arriving at the station in the morning, the Metro already piled up,
waiting. Leaving the train, slipping into your somnambulent self,
commuter character armour freezing into place, automatically making
the Waste Land walk across London Bridge ('I had not thought that
death had undone so many'), the way already blocked by reps preferring
City AM. (London Bridge is a film set now (hyperreal city): there's
barely a day where there isn't a camera crew or some out of work
actors playing a bit part in some promotional pantomime.) And in the
evening, rushing to escape the black hole of the city, you have to
play liveaction Pac Man with the London Lite and the londonpaper
drones blocking the pavement every few yards. As if London needed
people poorly paid members of the city's immigrant subproletariat, at
that actually being employed to obstruct the pavement. In the train,
the free papers are everywhere, their dull gloss a lurid temptation
for the drained mind ... cut and pasted PR ... nothing happening
forever ... cocaine celebrities ... a survey says... join in the
debate... vote: more or bore... your texts... consume it and feel
lulled and sullied... Semiotic parasites designed to prey upon
hypnagogic drift. Weapons against the city's intelligence. Almost
noone reads books any more. London litened, littered, public transport
desolate into a time waste land. Look around the carriage, snapshot of
a spaced city: diversity without difference, homogeneity without
communality bodies reduced to claustrophobic zombie meat fighting for
space, background hum of mutual hostility simmering, yet everyone is
reading the same thing... Me on Numan in Fact. The call centre
experience distils the political phenomenology of late capitalism: the
boredom and frustration punctuated by cheerily piped PR, the repeating
of the same dreary details many times to different poorly trained and
badly informed operatives, the building rage that must remain impotent
because it can have no legitimate object, since  as is very quickly
clear to the caller  there is noone who knows, and noone who could do
anything even if they could. Anger can only be a matter of venting; it
is aggression in a vacuum, directed at someone who is a fellow victim
of the system but with whom there is no possibility of communality.
Just as the anger has no proper object, it will have no effect. In
this experience of a system that is unresponsive, impersonal,
centreless, abstract and fragmentary, you are as close as you can be
to confronting the artificial stupidity of Capital in itself. Call
centre angst is one more illustration of the way that Kafka is poorly
understood as a writer of totalitarianism; a decentralized, market
Stalinist bureaucracy is far more Kafkaesque than one in which there
is a central authority. 'No,' said the Superintendent, holding firmly
onto the word, 'these telephone replies from the Castle certainly have
a meaning, why shouldn't they? How could a message given by an
official from the Castle not be important?'Me on Paul Morley on Cory
Arcangel.... (being in part my belated contribution to the
pseudomodernist discussion). Owen is right to draw attention to these
two pieces attacking the BBC's White season, but I'm not sure that
either go far enough in locating what was so pernicious about it. The
crucial line comes in the New Statesman piece: 'The BBC has made a
grave error in locating the problems of Britain's poorest and most
pressurised people in race rather than class.' Yet the displacement
from class to race is more than an error; it is part of a logic an
ethnology that substitutes ethnicity for class. While systematic, this
logic is best understood in terms of dreamwork, with all of the
telling elisions, substitutions and compressions that psychoanalysis
has taught us to be alert to. The most revelatory compression is the
title of the season itself: a season ostensibly devoted to the 'white
working class' ends up being called 'White', as if 'white' and
'working class' are synonymous. This identification this conversion,
precisely, of class into 'identity' has strange implications. Is there
no non-white working class? And are the upper and middle classes not
white? And in a time when ethnic discontent is as likely to be
organized around religion and nationality as skin colour, what
purchase does the category of 'whiteness' have even on current ethnic
resentments? It ought to be obvious that it is not insofar as they are
'white' that the working class has been disappeared from British
culture; since, for all the gestures towards multiculturalism and
diversity in Britain, being white remains pervasive normative. Nor is
it the case that British culture is bereft of representations of
working class life, even if, as the Socialist Worker piece complains,
those representations are seldom anything other than hackneyed. (The
problem might actually be the reverse: that the middle class control
media representation without themselves being subject to even a
distorting representation; they remain for the most part an off-screen
voice, like the Big (Br)other producers, heard but not seen, who
orchestrate a working class freak show from behind the scenes.)
Ethnicization spirits away class in favour of categories that are made
to appear natural. The Far Right have profited from this, but New
Labour has had its own reasons to collude with it. In addition to
fitting New Labour's intrinsic suspicion of working class cultures,
ethnicizing the working class has clear strategic benefits. It
obstructs the possibility of class solidarity between indigenous
British workers and immigrant labour by positing the two groups as
competitors for resources whilst deflecting attention from the reasons
that resources are scarce in the first place. It is far more
convenient for New Labour to have a disenfranchised british-born
worker complaining that their council houses have been taken by
immigrants rather than asking why so few council houses have been
built in the last decade. The documentary on Powell claimed to be
soberly analysing the 'Rivers of Blood' speech for the first time, as
if Powell's ideas are unspeakable. But while no frontline politician
would today be so impolitic to publicly talk of 'widegrinning
piccaninnies', as Powell did, few dare speak in favour of immigration,
and even fewer talk about class, the real unmentionable in mainstream
politics now. A refreshingly honest perspective on all this was
provided by Kelvin Mackenzie, speaking on the Andrew Marr show at the
weekend. MacKenzie was doggedly keeping faith with a 'trickledown
theory' of economics, which whilst totally discredited is still widely
treated not least by New Labour as if it were true. A Spitting Image
puppet from an another era, Mackenzie brayed that super rich 'non
domiciles' should not be 'squeezed', because they are 'wealth
creators'. It is the poor who are the problem. If only they could be
removed from London, then everything would be fine. It's a fantasy
that is telling in its very incoherence who would do all the menial
labour in a city populated only by the hyperaffluent? In any case, the
working class has already been symbolically eliminated, whited out, a
situation that the White season exacerbated rather than addressed. Me
on Liquid Liquid... Savage Messiah now has a website... ... a London
labyrinth... ... and anti2012 vortex... speaking of which, see also
this... Not unrelated to the above: Monday with May12:00 18:00
SYMPOSIUMMuseum of Garden History tautology NOW!In the past two years,
the concept of hauntology has emerged as a name for the zeitgeist. The
shades of the past become more vivid than anything turned up by the
present. The spirit of the times is itself spectral. Faced with the
apparent triumph of global Capital and the collapse of cultural
innovation, artists and critics impatient with postmodern cultures
nostalgia mode are forced back to a time before the End of History.
They engage in mourning and melancholia for what has disappeared and
what never came to be. Everyday life becomes ghostly a saturated
culture is unable to forget that things were not always like this.
Coined by Derrida in his Spectres Of Marx, hauntology now has an
unlike of its own. It is in relation to sound, in particular, that
hauntology has gained its second  or should that be third life. Recent
releases by Burial, the Ghost Box label, Mordant Music, The Caretaker,
Philip Jeck, Gavin briars and Chris Watson have in their different
ways exemplified a tautological sensibility. The revival of attention
upon the polyvinyl status of groups like Joy Division, The Gang of
Four, The Fall etc. presents a parallel narrative that conditions
development in the present. This May 12 event will be the first to
deal with the relation between sound and hauntology, and will focus in
particular on the role of space in generating tautological effects.
Why do certain places retain the traces of past sonic events? Why is
so much tautological music tied up with particular spaces? What has
the disappearance of the concept of public space to do with
hauntology? The day will be divided into afternoon and evening
sessions. The afternoon will be devoted to theoretical explorations of
sonic hauntology, with presentations by Mark Fisher (The Wire, punk
weblog), Jon Wozencroft (Touch, Royal College of Art), Paul Devereux
(author, researcher into Archaeoacoustics, Royal College of Art),
Christopher Woodward (Director of the Museum of Garden History) and
Steve Goodman, better known as kode (University of East London). The
evening will be given over to performances and interventions, with The
Caretaker, kode and The space-age and Philip jack headlining. 8 Monday
with May20:00 PERFORMANCEKODE9 & THE SPACEAPETHE CARETAKER (aka
V/VM)PHILIP jelka night of amazing artists across multiple genres
(Dubstep, alternative electronica/sampladelica, multimedia composition
etc) in whose work can be seen a sense of haunting nostalgia.
Performances will start at 8.30pm. 12 A combined ticket for both
Monday with May events is available for 15 through the Museum of
Garden History box office only. For more information on Touch please
visit www.touchmusic.org.uk Festival Pass: 38. Only available through
the Museum of Garden History box office. Box Office:Ticketweb: 08700
600 100 / www.ticketweb.co.ukSee Tickets: 0870 264 3333 /
www.seetickets.comWe Got Tickets (internet only, but save on postage
fees): www.wegottickets.com Tickets also available through the Museum
020 7401 8865Me on Graham Harman on the Frieze website. See also
Dominic's Badiouian take on some of Graham's preoccupations. There was
an excellent symposium devoted to Graham Harmans work on Bruno labour
at the LSE this week. Graham characterised labour as a secular
occasionalist. Occasionalism was a philosophy originally associated
with ancient Islamic thinkers, who thought it an abomination that one
thing could directly affect another. Even for fire to burn cotton,
they maintained, it was necessary for God to act as a mediator.
Grahams theory of objects, arising from his deliciously aberrant
reading of Heidegger, emphasises the opacity of objects, the way that
a subterranean region of themselves is always retained that does not
enter into any external relations. In this way Graham restores the
mystery of causation, makes the taken-for-granted fabric of
commonsense experience the focus of cosmological speculation once
again: how is it that one object can affect another? Speaking from the
floor, Peter Hallward posed a question which aimed to challenge
Grahams refusal of relationality. Peter asked us to consider the
example of a chess set, arguing that the existence of any individual
piece  a rook, say  can be explained and accounted solely by its
relation to all the other pieces. But, far from being an objection to
Grahams philosophy, this example demonstrates its significance. Even
though a rook might only have been manufactured to become part of a
chess set, and even though its meaning is dependent upon its relation
to all the other pieces, this by no means exhausts the being of the
rook. As an object, the rook is not reducible to its function as a
chess piece: for instance, termites or microorganisms may already have
made it a habitat. This struck me as one way of getting to the
Lacanian opposition between the Symbolic and the Real. The Symbolic is
about relations; at this level, an object is a signifier, whose
function is determined  and exhausted  by its relations with other
signifiers. But the signifier is also a particular form: in the case
of language, the letter; in the case of a chess set, the pieces. This
level of form, which lies beyond human meaning but upon which human
meaning depends, is the asignifying, nonsensical Real. The real in
Grahams version of Speculative Realism can be seen, then, as a
Lacanian Real. UPDATE A recorded version of the symposium is now
available here. A few readers have kindly drawn my attention to this:
Mark E Smith reading Lovecraft. This is apt, because my presentation
at the conference on The Fall at Salford in May will be entitled The
Place I Made The Purchase No Longer Exists: The Fall and The Weird. It
will focus on some of the songs (Various Times, Wings, etc) that didnt
really feature in my posts on The Falls pulp modernism. The whole
world seems like a conspiracy to stop me from writing at the moment.
Because of call centre rhizomidiocy and corporate incompetence, my
broadband connection was prematurely cut off and will not return until
the end of February. But this is only one consequence of the trauma of
moving. After I moved back down to the South East last weekend, I
worked out that Ive moved something like sixteen times in the last
twenty years. This is by contrast with my mother, who has only moved
twice in her life, and has never lived outside a three-mile radius of
her first family home. The stability that I took for granted as a
child will never arrive. No doubt this is in part an effect of class
mobility, of moving away from a rooted working class world in which
you are expected to live and work in the town where you were born. But
it is also an effect of postFordism, a feature of what Jameson calls
the fungible present of late capitalism. Even if I had stayed in my
home town, I could not have remained in the rooted working class
world, because it no longer exists. The stable Fordist town (dominated
by a few firms that would employ people for their whole working life)
has disappared. The pit town about which scholarship boys such as
Dennis Potters Nigel Barton felt so painfully ambivalent is of course
long gone. But what remains  and it has become even more widespread
is Bartons vertiginous sense of existential dislocation. Mobility is
perpetual, but instead of being associated with movement between
classes, it functions now as an alibi for class divisions that have
reasserted themselves just as, in Bartons (and Potters) youth, they
for a brief moment became more fluid. Richard Sennetts The Corrosion
of Character begins with a powerful comparison between two generations
of an American family: an older generation whose working lives were
predictable and poorly remunerated, but who measured improvement in
terms of small gains that their steady income allowed them to save
for; and a younger generation  their children  whose college education
projected them into the post-fordist world of consumerdriven debt,
weak ties and itinerancy. The motto for this world, Sennett says, is
no long term. Still, nostalgia for the old long term should be
qualified by a recognition that the long term wasnt actually that
long, as Sennett explains:The longterm order at which the new regime
takes aim, it should be said, was itself shortlived  the decades
spanning the mid-twentieth century. nineteenth-century capitalism
lurched from disaster to disaster in the stock markets and in
irrational corporate investment; the wild swings of the business cycle
provided people little security. In [the] generation after World War
II, this disorder was brought somewhat under control in most advanced
economies; strong unions, guarantees of the welfare state, and
largescale corporations combined to produce an era of relative
stability. This span of thirty or forty years defines the stable past
now challenged by a new regime. That old long term was symbolised by
solid wooden furniture, permanently nailed together, the new era by
flatpack kits. While the rooms change, the objects  heaved from flat
to flat  provide the continuity. Records and books are relics of that
old stability, the very solidity that is their appeal a problem, a
drag, in the age of digital ether. Moving from one rented property to
another, from one job (and skill set) to another, its unlikely that I
will ever have a home in the sense that my parents have one. This
provokes ambivalent feelings: Im well aware that keeping on the move
revivifies at least as much as it drains, that the old, limited
horizons were constraining, but the thought that there could come a
point when I won't move again is increasingly alluring.The estimable
Lawrence Miles returns, with a new ethernet Steampunk Satire
conceit... Owen proves the point... "Perhaps you'd fancy a few miles
moving through the HackneyStratford marshes: a complex transitional
ecology of CGI imagery, doomed allotments and virtual arcadias?" So
Iain Sinclair is said to have asked Robert Macfarlane before the pair
set off on a tour of the areas of East London currently being
'developed' by the 2012 SF Capital megamachine. I can't help comparing
Macfarlane's report of his and Sinclair's journey through the lower
Lea Valley territory with the wonderful film of the construction of
BBC Television Centre that Owen linked to a few weeks back. Macfarlane
and Sinclair were walking the Stalking ground of Stephen Gill, whose
eerily powerful photographs provide an eerie record of the defining of
the area. The theme of Gill's photographs, Macfarlane suggests, is
'the imminence of mass construction'. The film of the BBC television
centre shows construction itself, soundtrack by the BBC Radiophonic
Workshop. 2012 is a fatal date for Television Centre, as it is for the
lower Lea valley, for it is 'by the end the financial year 2012/13'
that the BBC plans to sell off the building. BBC Television Centre is
a relic of popular modernism, while the thriving improvised ecologies
of the lower Lea Valley were thrown up as a side-effect of modernist
development. At least a third of the images in [Gills] Archaeology in
Reverse are of plants, Mcfarlane tells us, prospering in the
foreground or seething in the background. A stand of phragmites hughes
in the wind. Fields of Japanese knotted are slashed by ODA workmen.
Giant hogweed is cut, stroked and burned. Convolvulus spirals up a
chain-link fence. One extraordinary photograph shows the trunk of an
ash preaching slowly round an iron railing. The tree resembles a gummy
mouth, gradually eating back the metalwork. The lower lea Valley
Londons Tarkovsky scurf space is full of such images: their power
arises from the combination of vegetation and dereliction, the
seductive lure of the overgrown. As Owen has acerbically noted, the
only thing to be welcomed about the 2012 project is that, once the
CapitalSpectacle has departed the glittering arcades, the wind will
whistle through the dereliction of a new Zone. Whatever occurs here,
these images suggest, whatever is lost to this development, will only
be temporary, Macfarlane observes. Given time, the wild will reclaim
the park and its structures. Gills photographs  and other similar
records, in writing and on film are the only means by which the lower
Lea Valleys manmade Zone can now be preserved, the march of the 2012
megawatt being as implacable as it was uninvited. Speaking of 'other
records', I should note that Macfarlane's lower Lea Valley travelogue
produced a very personal tautological charge. Macfarlane and
Sinclair's route '[f]rom our first encounter with the fence, we walked
widdershins: south past the Big Breakfast House, east over Stratford
marsh, north up through Stratford New Town, before returning west
across Hackney Marshes' took in much of the territory that me,
Heronbone, Woebot, Nick Kilroy and others used to walk in our
bloggers' gettogethers. Heronbone remains perhaps the greatest poet of
the lower Lea Valley, but he departed the blogosphere long ago; robot
has just announced his online retirement, while Nick sadly died, his
own photographs now constituting one of the ways in which the
underdestruction lower Lea Valley is preserved. Preserving Television
Centre, meanwhile, would be a meaningless act of museumification. What
mattered was a certain notion of public broadcasting and more broadly
public service which has long since been marginalised in the
'radically reformed' BBC. The concept of 'radical reform' perfectly
captures postmodernity's tendency to pursue the same through
difference. The paradox in which 'an unparalleled rate of change on
all the levels of social life' goes alongside 'an unparalleled
standardization of everything feelings along with consumer goods,
language along with built space that would seem incompatible with such
mutability' was the subject of Jameson's great essay 'The Antinomies
of Postmodernity'. The Antinomies of Postmodernity is at least the
equal of his Postmodernism and Consumer Society in its acute purchase
on the current malaise. The temporal paradox that Jameson was coming
to terms with in that essay is one that is now liable to be taken for
granted, not so much analysed or lived with. Despite or rather because
of the premium put on change and dynamism in late capitalism, Jameson
argues, 'no society has ever been so standardized as this one, ... the
stream of human, social and historical temporality has never flowed
quite so homogenously.' This is an inversion of modernism, where
'prefabicrated modularization' gave rise to 'miraculous rebuildings',
where (bog)standardization  of education, of production  produced a
cultural diversity. 'Diversity' and 'choice' are of course the very
names by which todays homogeneity goes. Yet it is by now clear that it
is not 'paternalistic' but consumerdriven broadcasting that leads to
infantilisation, and that a proliferation of barelyrejigged formats
does not constitute choice. The twinning of the Radiophonic Workshop
and Television Centre perfectly illustrates that condensation of The
Weird and the Public, of the aberrant and the bogstandard, that Ghost
Boxs redreamings of public service radio dents and comprehensive
school textbooks have invited us to recall. If there were a soundtrack
to the BBC's selling off of Television Centre, it would be provided by
Murray Gold, the composer who writes the music for the new Dr Who.
Where the Radiophonic Workshop's music was atonal and anempathic,
Golds is cloying and reassuring. You couldn't ask for a better
substantiation of Adam Curtis' claim that 'television now tells you
how to feel' than Gold's hysterically shrieking orchestra. The
Corporations flagship figure, David Tennants beaming, emotionally
incontinent Doctor, is the symbol of the deWeirded BBC and, more
broadly, of the gleaming sciencefictional stasis (Jameson) which
neoliberalism has inaugurated and administrated. At The Weird
symposium, China argued that the Weird and the tautological stand in a
relation of nondialectical opposition. (He characterised M R James
whose work played such an important part in the BBC of the 1970s, of
course  as a writer who oscillated between the two poles). Yet,
repressed, suppressed and forgotten in the hyperbright halls of the
postmodern, the Weird has itself become a trace, a relic inducing
tautological yearnings. It is the Weird that haunts Ghost Box and
Mordant Musics spectral broadcasting stations. What is important, now,
is not simply a nostalgia for an earlier time, but a rescuing of what
was valuable in that era from its slandering in the false memory that
neoliberalism has installed and naturalised a task characterised by
Dan on The End Times as 'reinterpreting the past in order to find a
way out of the present'. From the commanding heights of the post 89
End of History, the preStyle, preconsumer is represents in time what
the Soviet Union represents in space: stagnant and shortage. Yet
public funding yielded more than the dreary State propaganda or dour
gwithian austerity that neoliberalism painted as its sole products. In
the December issue of Sight and Sound, Ian Christie reinforced the
point I made about Tarkovsky in Marxist Supernanny: (Incidentally, to
correct an understandable misunderstanding created by the 'Marxist
Supernanny' post, and seized upon by Ghost of a Flea, I should make it
clear here that the evidence for my claim that Tarkovsky acted as an
entrepreneur for Hollywood was not Soderberghs Solaris  which, after
all, could be considered a new adaptation of Lems novel rather than a
remake of Tarkovskys film  but his impact on Ridley Scotts Alien and
Blade Runner.) Once again, the point is not to indulge in Old Left
nostalgia for the Soviet state apparatus. The point is to correct the
misapprehension that neoliberalism has successfully propagated that
only capitalism can produce a vibrant culture. Not only is it by now
clear that the dynamic culture of ultraprecarious capitalism would
never produce something like Tarkovskys films, it is beginning to
appear that as Jameson suspected over a decade ago unchallenged and
unsheathed capitalism cannon produce any sort of vibrant culture at
all, only endless variations on a drearily glossy theme. (Since I've
mentioned 'Marxist Supernanny': thanks to drinker Soaked Trotskyist
Popinjays who very kindly described the post as 'like Charlie Brooker
with a PhD'. I can't ask for better than that!) (Also 'Marxist
Supernanny'related: hurrah for this...) A rare display of class
resentment on TV this week on Hugh FearnleyWhittingstall's Chicken Run
programmes on Channel 4. The programmes were enthralling not because
of their ostensible topic the welfare of chickens in intensive farming
but because of their running subtext of class antagonism. The
ambivalent role of old school liberalism was to have at least allowed
class into its reality picture, as a kind of blind spot that is
acknowledged by the very conspicuousness of its repression. So it was
here, where a kind of Fourieresque paternalist liberalism confronted
one of the effects of (the of course unnamed and unidentified)
neoliberalism's antipaternalism. FearnleyWhittingstall's aim to
transform his local town, Axminster, into 'Britain's first free-range
chicken town' was dogged by a single mother, Hayley, who, although she
had enthusiastically participated in a project which saw residents of
council estate raise and kill their own chickens, resolutely refused
to stop buying '2 for 5' chickens in Tesco. Even after she saw how
chickens were kept on the intensive chicken factory that
FearnleyWhittingstall had set up to demonstrate the conditions that
cheap chicken are raised in (none of the intensive poultry producers
would allow him to film in their establishments), she maintained that
feeding her children on a limited budget was more important than the
welfare of chickens. There was something heroic about the way in which
she resisted the consensual sentimentality to which the others on her
estate cast in FearnleyWhittingstall's narrative as, if not noble
savages, then easily ennobled 'common people' seemed to quickly
submit. On BBC1's painfully Partridgesque One Show,
FearnleyWhittingstall said that he didn't want to 'flinch' from the
issues that Hayley raised , but that chicken welfare was 'not about
class but ethics.' The immediate temptation here is to indignantly ask
if class is not also about ethics, but this should be resisted, since
Marx's claim that 'ethics' is a justificatory bourgeois category has
never had more purchase than now, when 'the ethical' blatantly serves
as both a substitution for, and a means of warding off, the
politicaleconomic. 'Ethical consumerism' is posited as the (only)
means by which people can 'make a difference', but of course consumers
cannon make one jot of difference to the systemic causes of misery (in
humans or chickens), they can only make a 'choice', where 'choice'
divested of any existentialist charge carries the meaning assigned
none to it by neoliberalism. Choice, in this rendition, is, (second)
naturally, a choice between commodities. Like neoliberalism itself,
ethical consumerism presupposes the smithson invisible hand even as it
accepts that it occasionally needs jogging in the right direction by
enlightened 'good sorts'. In 'Transformations of the Image in
Postmodernity', Jameson warned of the politicizing function that the
return of ethics plays in the stabilising of the capitalist reality
picture. 'For ethics,' Jameson writes in ', 'is irredeemably locked
into the categories of the individual, when not in fact of
individualism as such: the situations in which it seemed to hold sway
are necessarily those of homogenous relations within a single class.
But only those whose thinking has been irreparably damaged by
empiricism can imagine that to pronounce the end of ethics (beyond
good and evil!) is tantamount to recommending wholesale violence and
the Dostoyevskyan "anything goes", rather than a sober historical
judgment on the inadequacy of certain mental categories.' The current
capturing (and attempted depoliticization) of Green issues by the
capitalist Matrix and the attendant emphasis on lifestyle and health
is an exemplary demonstration of Zizek's Lacanian reversal of Ivan
Karamazov's 'if there is no God, everything is permitted': everything
is permited, on the grounds that it is deprived that which made it
enjoyable. But, as I've argued before, it is imperative to reject
Zizek's Oedipal Catholicism (something is enjoyable because it is
forbidden), which is only the dialectical complement of today's
hedonic conservatism, or ascetic consumerism. Hastily festooned with
Green and Fair Trade slogans, the Capitalist Matrix looks like a bad
synthesis of the two worlds in Ursula Le Guin's The Dispossessed the
one, earnest, communalorientated and austere; the other,
pleasuredriven, intoxicating and intoxicated, slick but sick. There's
something easily appalling about being sold moralism with your M and S
pornfood. Needless to say, neo-liberal Britain has more than been
'damaged by empiricism', to recall Jameson's phrase.
FearnleyWhittingstall's programme, like Jamie Oliver's upcoming
programme tonight, and the absurdly
sensationmongeringmawkishmoralising 'Kill It, Cook It, Eat It' on BBC
Three (a programme so breathtakingly Brass eyelids that it makes
parody obsolete), claim that it is making people 'experience' the
'reality' of meat production. But that 'reality' is not available to
experience, only to cognition. The crowding of animals into tiny
spaces and its complement the economic inequality that means that many
can only afford cheap meat is of course an epiphenomenon or a symptom,
not the structural cause or Thing itself, Capital, which is far too
abstract to be experienced as such. FearnleyWhittingstall exemplifies
that combination of charm and bullish certainty which is
characteristic of the English Master Class at their most winning and
and their most irritating. Describing himself on the One Show as 'a
posh boy with a farm' FearnleyWhittingstall is more ingenuousness
about his class background than Jamie Oliver, which meant that the
resistance and class resentment his 'Chicken Out' campaign faced was
different to that encountered by Oliver when he took on the problem of
school dinners a few years back. Oliver was famously resisted by
parents who passed fast food through the fences of schools that had
converted to more nourishing meals, but whether this was an act of
class defiance to bourgeois gooding or an act of entrepreneurialism,
or some combination of both, was unclear. In FearnleyWhittingstall's
programmes this week, the class aporia was insistent. The programmes
devoted quite a bit of screen time to Axminster working class voices
that were sceptical of his motives and openly hostile to his 'organic'
and 'free range' agenda, which they rightly saw in class terms. To
many, myself included, the 'organic' and 'ethical' labelling of
products produces a smart of resentment; this is expensive posh food,
and our being restored to purchase it is another example of the middle
class lecturing the poor on how to behave, one more consequence of the
'ethicization' or depoliticization of postmodern British life. The
abstract contours of global Capital, and its handmaiden,
neoliberalism, necessarily appear in FearnleyWhittingstall's and
Oliver's vision only negatively, or rather in an inverted way, the
elephant in their farms, seen from the wrong end of the telescope,
from the consumer's point of view. It would only take a nudge albeit a
massive political ontological leap for the condition of chickens to be
connected with the superbugs raging through privatized hospitals, with
the mental health plagues and with the homicidal youth violence that
stalks former public spaces. But what these campaigns demonstrate is
the continuing power of television and of paternalism, albeit of a
liberal stripe. One positive side-effect of FearnleyWhittingstall's
chicken run campaign was the fostering of a a collective project.
'There's nothing else round here,' one participant glumly noted. One
can only speculate what a collectivist, as opposed to a liberal,
'paternalism' we still await the proper defamilialized and
depatriarchised term might achieve. Further thoughts on Bassline....
UPDATEDominic responds: You don't say...Great article, tho': I agree
that bassline house is joyous, and for the reasons you discuss. I
loved the vocals on "heartbroken" because they were deadpan without
being affectless plangent normal, you might say and the acrobatics
were in the vocal science rather than the singer's technique (there's
a distant echo of Mel & Kim in there). It's obvious noone's let an
autocue plug-in within a hundred miles of them, too... Couple of
things I've noticed:i) Use of filtered square waves in the bass lines.
These sound dated, 8bit, BBCmicroish, but also (because of the filter
envelope, which gives it a sort of duckling quack) round and phat.
They also transpose well out of the normal bass range into higher
tones you hear synth melodies that are basically bass figures pitched
up an octave or two. I haven't listened to enough stuff closely enough
to tell whether bits of tune migrate between bass and melody in the
same song, but it wouldn't surprise me. ii) In spite of the
bassheaviness of it, it's also clearly designed to sound good coming
out of tinny little portable mp player speakers. This is in fact how
I've heard nearly all the bassline house I've heard over the past
month (that and the occasional visit to 1Xtra): teenagers in the bus
station crowded round someone's phone or player listening to the
stuff. It's like the return of the portable transistor radio (with
similar connotations of public nuisance I've seen kids get kicked off
buses for playing their music too loud), and a complete breakout from
the phone personalmusicspace mentality. It turns out that peer-to-peer
file copying isn't the only way people like to share music, after
all.Orford Ness from Aldeburgh, December 2007 Aldeburgh, December 2007
'The place on the east coast which the reader is asked to consider is
Seaburgh. It is not very different now from what I remember it to have
been when I was a child. Marshes intersected by dykes to the south,
recalling the early chapters of Great Expectations; flat fields to the
north, merging into heath; heath, fir woods, and, above all, gorse,
inland.' Aldeburgh, December 2007 Cooling, Kent, yesterday 'Ours was
the marsh country, down by the river, within, as the river wound,
twenty miles of the sea. My first most vivid and broad impression of
the identity of things, seems to me to have been gained on a memorable
raw afternoon towards evening.' Cooling, Kent, yesterday 'At such a
time I found out for certain, that this bleak place overgrown with
nettles was the churchyard; and that Philip Pirrip, late of this
parish, and also Georgiana wife of the above, were dead and buried;
and that Alexander, Bartholomew, Abraham, Tobias, and Roger, infant
children of the aforesaid, were also dead and buried; and that the
dark flat wilderness beyond the churchyard, intersected with dykes and
mounds and gates, with scattered cattle feeding on it, was the
marshes; and that the low leaden line beyond, was the river; and that
the distant savage lair from which the wind was rushing was the sea;
and that the small bundle of shivers growing afraid of it all and
beginning to cry, was Pip.' Cooling, Kent, yesterday Cooling, Kent,
yesterday 'To five little stone lozenges, each about a foot and a half
long which were arranged in a neat row beside their grave, and were
sacred to the memory of five little brothers of mine who gave up
trying to get a living, exceedingly early in that universal struggle I
am indebted for a belief I religiously entertained that they had all
been born on their backs with their hands in their trousers pockets,
and had never taken them out in this state of existence.' Heuristic
England with a fascinating account of 'Le desire de Ngation', aka
Cotard's syndrome. (It sounds like Judge schreiber might have suffered
from this condition, in which sufferers often believe that they have
no stomach and bowels.) The Heuristic England post takes up one of the
most interesting discussions at the recent symposium on The Weird, on
the relation of negativity, the horrible and horror to the Weird. My
position remains that there is no necessary relation between the Weird
and Horror, which is not, evidently, to say that the Weird cannon be
horrible, only that it need not be. The Weirdness of 'The Door in the
Wall' does not arise from the 'horrible' elements of the story
Wallace's death and derangement but from the 'out of placeness' of the
garden in quotidian London, the incommensurability of the different
worlds that Wallace travels between. I think it's quite possible to
imagine a different version of 'The Door in the Wall', one in which
Wallace's vision of the numinous was vindicated, without the tale
losing its Weird charge. It strikes me that is it is not horror but
fascination albeit a fascination usually mixed with a certain
trepidation, if not repulsion that is integral to the Weird. I would
argue, further, that if this element of fascination were entirely
absent from a story, and if the story were merely horrible, it would
no longer be Weird. Fascination is the affect shared by Lovecraft's
characters and his readers. Fear or terror are not shared in the same
way. Lovecraft's characters are often terrified, but his readers
seldom, if ever, are. It is fascination, above all else, that is the
engine of fatality in Lovecraft's fictions, fascination that draws his
bookish characters towards the dissolution, disintegration or
degeneration that we, the readers, always foresee. This is the death
drive not in the sense of an impulse towards homeostasis as China
rightly pointed out, and as Graham Harman's philosophy establishes,
the Weird deprives us of the consoling idea of a final state of
quiescence by showing that that there is no truly inanimate, that
there is no end to the teeming (echoing Lacan, who according to
Copjec, 'pictures the real as teeming with emptiness, as a swarming
void'). The death drive in question is the drive which cizek has so
tirelessly described: an death drive that is not directed towards
organic death but which persists in a state of zombie twitch
immortality, indifferent to the end of the organism. That is why Ben
is right to suggest that the rendezvous between cizek and hovercraft
is a missed appointment. Yet for me this is not because hovercraft is
a pessimistic author, but because his writing fairly froth and foams
with jouissance. 'Frothing', 'foaming', 'teeming', are themselves
Lovecraftian words, of course, but they could apply equally well to
the 'obscene jelly' of jouissance. This is not to make the absurd
claim that there is no negativity in hovercraft the loathing and
abomination are hardly concealed , only that negativity does not have
the last word. Lovecraftthesymptom, in fact, is an exemplary
demonstration of the advance that psychoanalysis makes over pessimsim.
Freud remarks during Beyond the Pleasure Principle that 'we have
unwittingly steered our course in the harbour of Schopenhauer's
philosophy'. But what Freud establishes in Beyond the Pleasure
Principle, surely, is that the enjoyment of what is supposedly
negative, the taking of pleasure from what is ostensibly painful,
wrecks any possibility of a total pessimism. An excessive
preoccupation with objects that are 'officially' negative always
indicates the work of jouissance a mode of enjoyment which does not in
any sense 'redeem' negativity: it sublimate it. That is to say, it
transforms an ordinary object causing displeasure into a Thing which
is both terrible and alluring, which can no longer be libidinal
classified as either positive or negative. The Thing overwhelms, it
cannon be contained, but it fascinates. Ligotti's unknown pleasures It
was in the session that the relation between the Weird and negativity
came into sharpest focus. Ligotti's texts are marked by a tension
between his personal philosophy of total pessimism and his writing
practice, which perforce, performative contradicts the unremitting
negativity of his official worldview. Since gotti recurrently suffers
from anhedonia, the inability to take pleasure, in his texts, as James
Burton astutely put it, it is pleasure that is the noumenal, the
unknowable. But, rather like Beckett's uneatable the Lovecraftian echo
here hardly need be stressed at this point gotti finds that the sheer
fact of writing mitigates his pessimism. It would be a mistake to read
The Unmamable's 'I'll go on' redemptively, as the triumph of some
indomitable spirit, human or otherwise. Beckett makes contact instead
with an intensive negativity, a purgatorial continuum in which things
can always get worse, without ever reaching the relief of the worst.
Total negativity would yield quiescence, yet for Beckett, as for
Ligotti, silence and stasis are unattainable, they lie outside texts
which might be for nothing but which are not, cannon be, nothing.
Those afflicted with being might yearn for nothingness, yet even their
dreams belong to being. The ontological haemorrhage to which Beckett's
'characters' in the Trilogy are subject the collapsing of Molloy's
world into the worlds of Malone, maman and the Unnnamable is echoed in
gotti by the repeated 'moment of consummate disaster, when the puppet
turns to face the puppet master'. Just as 'the uneatable not only
imagines characters, he also tries to imagine himself as the character
of someone else' (McHale) so Ligotti's marionettes begin to see
'themselves' as interiorless iterations in a purgatorial recursive
structure which extends 'upwards' (towards an ostensible master who
turns out to be a puppet) and 'downwards' (towards a puppet who leeds
at his supposed master) infinitely. This is a reverse Leibnizian
hypercosmos, in which whatever world you are in, it is always the
worst; where worlds, far from being incompossible, all end up bleeding
into one another, as a kind of oozing ontological cancer consumes
every possible world. Ligotti's is a version of Plantinga's transworld
depravity, except the corruption belongs to Creation itself, and to
any act of creation. To conjure something out of nothing is always
unforgivable: because, once created, there is no way back out to
nonbeing. This is a kind of Gnosticism without a demiurge, where every
being is both a blind idiot god and a helpless puppet who only has the
power to curse its creator. The horror of profound depression is not
just the feelings of negativity, but the impossibility of living the
negativity, the discrepancy between the dejection of one's affective
condition and what Francis Bacon called the optimism of your nervous
system. Having lost the will to live, you find that life does not
require will or at least, it does not need your will. Even when you
feel that you are a living corpse, the organs possess a will of their
own. At this point, we have passed beyond the Weird. As Ray argued,
gotti tries to pursue the Weirdassuch, a Weird in itself, a Weird
entirely estranged from naturalism and any recognizable world. Yet
Ligotti's stories in this mode become exercises in mannerism which
lose the Weird. His Weirdest story and his most successful in my view
is the eerie unmade screenplay Crampton in which all of Ligotti's
motifs are inserted into an American landscape of cheap TV adverts and
greasy small town cafes. Sublimation and Weird Psychoanalysis English
Heretic's highly stimulating presentation gave me an answer to the
question I had posed about psychoanalysis's relationship to the Weird.
What is reactionary about psychoanalysis is intricately tied up with
what is most radical about it, which is why AntiOedipusand The Century
can both be right when they, respectively, attack Freud for his
familiarise and celebrate psychoanalysis for its naturalization of the
family structure. English Heretic looked at the etymological roots of
the word 'weird' in the concept of the Wyrd as weaver of Fate. It was
Shakespeare who introduced 'weird' into the English language in the
Fatedriven story of Macbeth; and, in its hyperstitional structure,
Macbeth interestingly echoes the story of Oedipus. In both, the
prophecies generate the catastrophe; or, rather, the attempt to escape
the prophecies makes them come true. The signs are themselves the
engine of fatality. (See here for my previous discussion of the
Oedipus myth as a closed loop paradox: 'one knows in advance one's
destiny, one tries to evade it, and it is by means of this very
attempt that the predicted destiny realizes itself.' [Sublime Object
of Ideology .) It is no accident or rather, it is the kind of accident
that it is necessary that the Oedipus story should become so central
to psychoanalysis, since it is precisely about the capturing of the
Weird in a family drama. If Oedipus and Macbeth constitute a bad
fatality, then English Heretic outlined the contours of an antiOedipal
virtuous fatality, a kind of dadaists sorcery which makes Fate out of
a chance encounter. The lavatory systems of judaism provide the model
for an account of sublimation which is not hampered as cope argues
that Freud's was 'by the "epistemological obstacle" of [Freud's]
conservative taste in art'. (This by contrast with Lacan, of course,
who 'had a different understanding of art and a close association with
the surrealist avant garde'.) The central problem of Dada and
Surrealism the one that Duchamp kept returning to was exactly the one
that English Heretic laid out: the fatal twinning of chance and
necessity. Its lavatory systems were not just machines that would
produce random effects, but, far more importantly, systems that would
transform a 'chance encounter' into a necessity. Dada and Surrealist
practice can be seen precisely as a Weird psychoanalysis, which,
instead of shooing away strange animals, or looking for the roots of
aberrant machines in family relations, cultivated a positive
psychopathology from bizarre juxtapositions in experience. Witness one
of EH's examples, Max Ernst: Ben has described how the object of
horror in hovercraft is often this 'surrealist avant garde' itself.
But, in making the avant garde so central and what could be more
central to hovercraft than his official object of loathing?
Lovecraft's 'reactionary modernism' was constitutively unable to
abject the avant garde, and became instead fatally infected with it,
implicated in it. Lacan, on the other hand, is a kind of aggravated or
ultramodernist whose style and theory could be seen as the result of
the subjecting one modernism Freud's psychoanalysis to the techniques
of another (Dada/ Surrealism). Ballard performs a similar operation;
although he does so, not with the rarefied materials of high
modernism, but as a pulp modernist who montages Dada into the media
landscape; or, better, he sees the ways in which the media landscape
was already Dadaist. And what is DeleuzeGuattari's schizoanalysis if
not a psychoanalysis given over to the Weird? A Thousand Plateaus,
with its repeated references to Lovecraft, Moby Dick and The
Incredible Shrinking Man, is in part a book of the American Weird. And
Baudrillard, the great reader of Ballard and P K Dick, wasn't he, too,
fascinated by the Weird (as well as being one of the greatest
theorists of the fatal pull of fascination)? My essay on Basic
Instinct 2, which substantially augments the remarks I initially made
about the film here, is included in the new issue of FilmPhilosophy,
edited by Ben Noys. My end of year roundup for Fact, written a while
back, and a bit out of date since it doesn't include Bassline House,
which would have fitted well into the vocal science/ electropop thread
I was following and celebrating. There's a Bassline remix of 'Slave 4
U' doing the rounds as it happens. What's great about Blackout is the
way that whitney seems to enjoy and accelerate her disintegration as
an organic individual the record, like the media coverage, is a 'piece
of her', a fragment of a distributed, mostly simulated, hyperbody,
exhibited in a cyberspatial freakshow. breakers is also a fixation of
Bassline. In much US R&B (most famously, alina Howard's 'Freak Like
Me') 'freak' is a euphemism for sex. In Bassline, 'freak' seems to
indicate a mode of electrolibido, a cartoonist exuberance, that has
little to do with genitality. In its sensibility if not its sound,
Bassline has far more in common with the gettingstupid twisted clown
face of Funkadelia than the moody screwtape of hip hop. tsp and TRC's
'Circus Freak' is perfectly titled: like much classic Rave, Bassline's
(un)natural environment seems to be the fairground as much as the
dancefloor. If you listen to the Pure tsp mix unloaded by Smugpolice a
massive shout of appreciation for Continuum for these loads much of it
sounds like the melted angles, pulses and bleeps of a wibbly wobbly
weird amusement park. Bassline relishes the Fruity Looped Freakish
absurdity of the Hardcore Continuum the result is more often than not
a sound that is more abstract and experimental than anything that can
be achieved under the oppressive, self-conscious glares of studiedly
morose young men. One thing I enjoy about Bassline is the almost
catatonic quality of some of the vocals, a welcome alternative to the
vibratoheavy straining of XFactorstyle emoting. Like 'Heartbroken',
Zoe's 'Lately' (probably my favourite Bassline track to date) is
characterised by the contrast between the subdued sadness of the vocal
and the barrelorgan carry momentum, the oozing exhilaration, of the
backing. At the same time, another thing that I enjoy about Bassline
is the way that it has potentiated Grime and Dubstep. It's done that
by effectively re-establishing a Garage mainstream. Grime and dusted
always felt like dead ends but that ceases to be the case when there
is a pop alternative for them to play off, when there is a Garage
mainstream which they can pass in and out of one of my favourite
Bassline tracks at the moment is DJ Q's remix of Dizzee's 'Flex'.
Grime has been bedeviled by comparisons with US hip hop; but if it is
drawn out of its skunkfugged cul-de-sac and back into the Garage
continuum, it avoids seeming like some bargain basement version of
rap. Me on Skull Disco, kode and The Bug at the recent Metadub event
at Plastic People, on the Frieze website. From the unedited transcript
of my interview with Burial, now up on The Wire site. I will be a
keynote speaker at the following: A Conference on the Aesthetics and
Politics of Mark E. Smith and The Fall The Coningsby Gallery 30
Tottenham Street wet rj ord December  th December 2007 The Coningsby
Show is a unique opportunity to view his new and recent work  Grey
Suit Music and Tiny Colour Movies stills, together with images from
the critically acclaimed Cathedral Oceans III. (Here's some text I
provided for the recent Jamie Reid exhibition at Croydon H E College).
Leave the twentieth century? We have to get back there first. Stranded
here, at the end of History, in the drear grip of the post-1979
Restoration (of family values, economism), the with century seems
impossibly modern. Many of Jamie Reids most important images are
presided over by the ambivalent figure of the tower block. The
official judgement promulgated at the end of History is that the tower
block was an abomination, the relic of a degenerate and unworkable
project to engineer a new kind of public space. Look at Reids work
from the i960 and 1970s now and you are taken back to the struggle
over urban planning that was at the heart of the with century. Would
the city be the execution of a Radiant masterplan or the site of a
permanent drive? In either case, the city was envisaged as a the
habitat for a new kind of human. In the just century, such humans can
no longer be imagined. Only nice families living in nice houses are
welcome here. Centralised planning has been replaced by a control
apparatus whose implacable despotism cloaks itself with the appearance
of public consultation and consumer preference. But did anyone ask you
whether you wanted London to be gradually, greedily consumed by the
2012 SF Capital Megatastrophe? The tower block was a precondition for
punk, and it was only in its more conservative moments that punk
lapsed into a humanist protest against the alienating effects of
brutalism architecture. Punk was far more interesting when it could be
heard as a cry of exuberant alienation which rejected beaches in
favour of pavement, which preferred concrete to a Nature it derisively
exposed as a reification. Capitalist realism  the idea that capitalism
is the inevitable terminus awaiting all societies fortunate enough to
reach the End of History  relies on a naturalization of current social
conditions, a naturalization that photoshop out politics and replaces
it with TV parliamentarianism. The significance of Jamie Reids work
was always to strange the environment presented to us as natural by
advertising. All culture in the just century tends to the condition of
advertising. More than ever, we live inside adverts and adverts are
inside us. The environments we move through are walkthrough,
interpassive simulations, and we are the carriers of a pulsing
videodrome signal that has colonized our unconscious, secreting its
banal aspirations into our electric dreams. Specific adverts sell
products, but the form of advertising sells Capital itself. Nothing
else is on offer. Reids work reminds us of a time when it seemed
possible to step outside the analyzing boulevards of advertising, to a
time, that is to say, when the strategy of detournement had not itself
been incorporated into the massive recuperation that is postmodernism,
the cultural logical of late capitalism. Late capitalisms wraparound,
seamless, CGIenhanced semiotic terrain is so totally pervasive that it
makes the idea of a Spectacle seem quaint. Where is the new Jamie Reid
who can rouse us from our Restoration stupor, where is the cyberpunk
that can blast a hole in the naturalised GraphicUser Interface of late
capitals megaMatrix?A reminder that the Weird event is taking place on
Saturday at Goldsmiths. It's free of charge so if you around in London
this week, please come along. The event is not intended for philosophy
specialists, and will be centred on discussion rather than the
delivery of papers. The speakers, all of whom have written and
theorized about the Weird for a number of years, come from a variety
of backgrounds and perspectives. New additions to the bill include
Dean Kenning, the artist responsible for the recent 'The Dulwich
Horror H.P. hovercraft and the Crisis in British Housing' exhibition,
and Andy Sharp of English Heretic. The event is scheduled to start at
noon. The text below will serve as the basis for my presentation. The
Door in the Wall: The Weird, worlds and the worldly What follows is a
reading of Wells extraordinary short story The Door in the Wall
(1911). Its my conjecture that this story exemplifies a number of the
defining features of the Weird, which I will seek to analyse and
enumerate below. The Door in the Wall is of particular interest
because it is differs in several significant respects from Lovecrafts
tales. This is important, since any coherent and useable concept of
the Weird must be applicable to more than the works of Lovecraft.
Comparing Lovecrafts stories to other examples of the Weird will allow
us to begin to distinguish general properties of the Weird from
particular techniques used by Lovecraft. The most obvious point of
departure from the formula of the Lovecraftian tale is the lack of any
inhuman entities in The Door in the Wall. When Wallace passes through
the door, he encounters strange beings, but they appear to be human.
The feeling of the Weird that the story gives rise to is clearly not
primarily produced by these languid, beneficent beings; and I want to
argue further that the Weird does not require any of the abominable
monstrosities which are so central to Lovecrafts tales. The second way
in which The Door in the Wall deviates from the Lovecraftian model is
the question of ontological hesitation. At the end of The Door in the
Wall, Wells narrator, Redmond, finds his mind darkened with questions
and riddles. He cannon dismiss the possibility that Wallace was
suffering from an unprecedented type of hallucination. It is likely
that Todorov would treat Wells story as a classic example of the
Fantastic, since, at first glance, The Door in the Wall seems to be
poised in a state of unresolved tension between the Marvellous (the
supernatural) and the Uncanny (in which the apparently supernatural is
explained naturalistically). At the climax of a hovercraft tale, by
contrast, we can be sure that the Other world which the characters
have encountered is real. This leads to a third difference, which
might possibly be subsumed into the second: the question of insanity.
In Lovecrafts tales, any insanity the characters experience is a
consequence of the transcendental shock that the encounter produces;
there is no question of the insanity causing characters to perceive
the entities (whose status would then, evidently, be degraded; they
would merely be products of a delirium). The Door in the Wall leaves
open the question of psychosis: it is possible  though Redmond doubts
it, it is not his profoundest belief  that Wallace is mad, or is
deluded, or has confabulated the whole experience from garbled
childhood memories (which, to use a distinction from Freuds essay on
Screen Memory would then be memories of childhood, not memories from
childhood). Wallace himself suspects that he may have augmented a
childhood memory  dreamed it  to the point of completely distorting
it. "I dreamt often of the garden. I may have added to it, I may have
changed it; I do not know . . . . . All this you understand is an
attempt to reconstruct from fragmentary memories a very early
experience. Between that and the other consecutive memories of my
boyhood there is a gulf. A time came when it seemed impossible I
should ever speak of that wonder glimpse again." With The Door in the
Wall, the ontological question is not so much about the reality or not
of the supernatural  there is nothing to suggest that the world behind
the wall is supernatural, though it is certainly enchanted but about
the opposition between the quotidian and the numinous. Wallaces
description of an indescribable quality of translucent unreality,
[different] from the common things of experience that hung about it
all recalls Ottos characterisation of the numinous in The Idea of the
Holy. Yet, for both Wallace and Otto, an indescribable quality of
translucent unreality precisely accompanies encounters with that which
is more real than the common things of experience. To [Wallace] at
least the Door in the Wall was a real door leading through a real wall
to immortal realities. I wrote above that The Door in the Wall turns
on an ontological hesitation. This is misleading. In fact, The Door in
the Wall hesitates between an ontological resolution, in which Wallace
really has made contact with an Other world, and an epistemological
resolution, in which Wallace is suffering from some kind of delusion.
Wallace is either a madman or a dreamer, a man of vision and the
imagination. We see our world fair and common, Redmond concludes,
inconclusively, the hoarding and the pit. By our daylight standard he
walked out of security into darkness, danger and death. But did he see
like that? Thresholds It is this question of Worlds  and of contact
between worlds  that I want to argue is central to the Weird. Weird
fiction presents us with a threshold between worlds. The Door in the
Wall is, evidently, about just such a threshold. Much of its power
derives from the opposition between the mendacity of the London
setting, with its minutely delineated quotidian he recalls a number of
mean, dirty shops, and particularly that of a plumber and decorator,
with a dusty disorder of earthenware pipes, sheet lead ball taps,
pattern books of wall paper, and tins of enamel  and the secret and
peculiar passage of escape into another and altogether more beautiful
world. Lovecrafts stories are full of thresholds between worlds: often
the egress will be a book (the dread Necromonicon), sometimes, as in
the case of the Randolph Carter Silver Key stories, it is literally a
portal. Gateways and portals routinely feature in the deeply
Lovecraftian stories of the Marvel comics character Doctor Strange.
David Lynchs film and television work is similarly fixated on
doorways, curtains and gateways: Inland Empire appears to be a holey
space constructed out of thresholds between worlds, an ontological
rabbit warren. Sometimes the threshold may only be a matter of
rescaling: Mathesons The Incredible Shrinking Man demonstrates that
your own living room can be a space of Weird wonder and dread if you
become sufficiently small. Between worldsThe notion of the between is
crucial to the Weird. It is clear that if Wells story had taken place
only in the Garden behind the wall, then no Weird charge would have
been produced. In that situation, we would be in the realm of Fantasy
(by which I obviously do not mean Todorovs Fantastic, but Fantasy in
the sense that is used in contemporary fiction publishing). This mode
of Fantasy naturalists OtherWorlds. But the Weird denaturalises all
worlds, in part by always prompting the question: what is a world?
(this ontological estrangementeffect may be its most important
political effect). The Weird tale presents an Ontological montage in
which a world  usually our world, the world captured by naturalistic
description and governed by commonsense  is ruptured or interrupted by
what does not belong to it: that which is out of space, and/ or out of
time. Lovecrafts major breakthrough was perhaps his setting of his
stories in a familiar New England setting (his earliest stories had
taken place in a heightened Dunsanian OtherWorld). Similarly, Ramsey
Campbell began by imitating Lovecraft, but his fiction only achieved a
Weird effect when he started to set it in a naturalistic Liverpool.
Ligottis most successful fiction, Crampton, is so powerful because its
Weird involution of time and space, its ontological haemorrhages, take
place in a welldrawn naturalistic setting.Graham Harman parallels the
effect of unvisualisability in Lovecrafts text with the techniques of
cubism; but the Weird also has a strong affinity with the textural
discrepancies of collage. The Weird does not airbrush or photoshop
incommensurable elements into a seamless CGI simulation; rather it
insists upon, and consists in, the very incommensurability. That is
why Julian Houses Lovecraftinspired collages (see immediately below)
are such apposite illustrations for the Weird. Beyond the worldly The
Weird always expresses a dissatisfaction with the worldly, the
mundane. That is one way in which the Weird can be said to differ from
Horror. There is certainly a crossover of the Weird and Horror  in
many ways, hovercraft is that crossover  but the Things of the Weird
are never merely horrible or terrifying. If they elicit a shudder, it
is not merely a shudder of fear, but a shudder of ontological unease
that typically contains a thrill of wonder, a vertiginous delight that
there is something beyond the mean confines of the mundane. It is
clear, for example, that no matter how many negative adjectives
hovercraft piles onto his abominable entities, they are objects of
wonder as much as dread. The attack on the deficiencies of the worldly
is of course explicit in The Door in the Wall. "Oh! the wretchedness
of that return!" Redmond complains, when he finds himself back in this
grey world again. Redmond attributes his quite ungovernable grief to a
failure of fidelity to the Weird. Wallace feels that he is depressed
the keen brightness that makes effort easy has gone out of things
recently because he has yielded to the temptations of the worldly,
failed to keep faith with the haunting memory of a beauty and a
happiness that filled his heart with insatiable longings that made all
the interests and spectacle of worldly life seem dull and tedious and
vain to him. The Weird and Psychoanalysis When Wallace describes his
grief, he seems to be a plaything of our old friend, the death drive.
"The fact visit isn't a case of ghosts or apparitionsbutit's an odd
thing to tell of, I am haunted. I am haunted by somethingthat rather
takes the light out of things, that fills me with longings . . . . ."
The pull exerted by the door and the garden deprives all of his
worldly satisfactions and achievements of their flavour. The door was
far from the start an ambivalent object, a threshold leading beyond
the pleasure principle: he did at the very first sight of that door
experience a peculiar emotion, an attraction, a desire to get to the
door and open it and walk in. Redmond then imagines the figure of that
little boy, drawn and repelled (emphasis added). Is there something
inherently Weird about the death drive? There are grounds for saying
that the greatest of all fictions about the death drive  Melvilles
Moby Dick  is a vastly distended Weird Tale. What is it, asks Ahab,
Psychoanalysis, whose object of study and treatment is those nameless,
inscrutable, unearthly things that go against all natural loving and
longings, can be  and usually is placed under the sign of the Uncanny.
Freuds great essay on The Uncanny  with all its ambivalences, its
repetitions, its over-hasty closures  remains the most potent
theorization of the uncanny. The domain of psychoanalysis can be seen
as the place of the unheimlich or the unhomely, the estranged
familiar/ familial. But cant the unconscious also be considered Weird,
with psychoanalysis the threshold into its alien world? Is Lacanianism
which drew upon the same Surrealist and Modernist collageart which
fascinated and repelled hovercraft  the revenge of the Weird upon
Freuds tendency towards homeliness? Certainly, The Door in the Wall
seems to belong to a Lacanian Weird but is the Weird inherently
Lacanian, or is Lacanianism just one mode of the Weird? (Marxist
Supernanny was a phrase dean used in respect of the dear departed
Little Lord Lack, who in the end was neither a Marxist or a
Supernanny, although he no doubt had a Nanny or two.) Nothing could be
a clearer illustration of the famous failure of the Father function,
the crisis of the paternal superego in late capitalism, than a typical
edition of Supernanny. The programme offers what amounts to a
relentless, although of course implicit, attack on postmodernitys
permissive hedonism. Supernanny is a Spinozist insofar as she takes it
for granted that children are in a state of abjection. They are unable
to recognise their own interests, unable to apprehend either the
causes of their actions or their (usually deleterious) effects. But
the problems that Supernanny confronts do not arise from the actions
or character of the children  who can only be expected to be idiotic
hedonists  but with the parents. It is the parents following of the
trajectory of the pleasure principle, the path of least resistance,
that causes most of the misery in the families. In a pattern that
quickly becomes familiar, the parents pursuit of the easy life leads
them to accede to their childrens every demand, which become
increasingly tyrannical. Rather like many teachers or other workers in
what used to be called public service, Supernanny has to sort out
problems of socialization that the family can no longer resolve. A
Marxist Supernanny would of course turn away from the troubleshooting
of individual families to look at the structural causes which produce
the same repeated effect. The problem is that late capitalism insists
and relies upon the very equation of desire with interests that
parenting used to based on rejecting. In a culture in which the
paternal concept of duty has been subsumed into the maternal
imperative to enjoy, it can seem that the parent is failing in their
duty if they in any way impede their childrens absolute right to
enjoyment. Partly this is an effect of the increasing requirement that
both parents work; in these conditions, when the parent sees the child
very little, the tendency will often be to refuse to occupy the
oppressive function of telling the child what to do. The parental
disavowal of this role of is doubled at the level of cultural
production by the refusal of 'gatekeepers' to do anything but give
audiences what they already (appear to) want. The concrete question
is: if a return to the paternal superego the stern father in the home,
gwithian superciliousness in broadcasting is neither possible nor
desirable, then how are we to move beyond the culture of monotonous
moribund conformity that results from a refusal to challenge or
educate? A question as massive as this cannon of course be answered in
one post, and what follows here will require a great deal of further
elaboration. In brief, though, I believe that it is Spinoza who offers
the best resources for thinking through what a 'paternalism without
the father' might look like. In carrying with the Negative, cizek
famously argues that a certain Spinozism is the ideology of late
capitalism. cizek believes that Spinozas rejection of ontology for an
ethics based around the concept of health is allegedly flat with
capitalisms amoral affective engineering. The famous example here is
Spinozas reading of the myth of the Fall and the foundation of Law. On
Spinozas account, God does not condemn Adam for eating the apple
because the action is wrong; he tells him that he should not consume
the apple because it will poison him. For Zizek, this dramatizes the
termination of the Father function. An act is wrong not because Daddy
says so; Daddy only says it is wrong because performing the act will
be harmful to us. In Zizeks view, Spinozas move both deprives the
grounding of Law in a sadistic act of scission (the cruel cut of
castration), at the same time as it denies the ungrounded positing of
agency in an act of pure volition, in which the subject assumes
responsibility for everything. In fact, it is Spinoza has immense
resources for analysing the affective regime of late capitalism: its
dissolving of agency in a phantasmagoria haze of psychic and physical
intoxicants, its blazing of the nervous system with images. (Spinoza
remains the preeminent philosopher of image addiction). It is
precisely Spinozas avoiding of the heroic Oedipal dramaturgy to which
cizek is so attached that enables him to give a plausible account of
how responsibility can be attained rather than assumed. Spinozas
diagnosing of the fathered of theism as an anthropomorphic fantasy
anticipates the psychoanalytic insight that the infant
phantasmatically posits a castrating Father figure in order to cover
over the impossibility of total enjoyment (If it were not for him, Id
have everything I want). (And far from being the One hallucinate by
Hegelian dementia, the Spinozist God is better understood as a
desolate Zero. The true formula of atheism is that God is unconscious,
Lacan declares; and Spinozas God is exactly that: not a distributed,
pantheistic omnipresence, but the cosmos as catatonic mechanism.) The
most important difference between Spinoza and Lacan does indeed
concern the question of pathology. If Spinoza aims to cure the
individual of their addictions and fixations, Lacan believes that they
can only be managed or sublimated. Spinozist joy consists in a calm
contemplation of the impersonal mechanism of the cosmos, including
your self; very different from Lacanian jouissance. But the idea that
pathology can only ever be sublimated, never eliminated, that the
subject can only ever circulate around objects that will never satisfy
it, but which it can never give up pursuing  is, if not the ideology
of late capitalism, then its metapyschology. Late capitalism certainly
articulates many of its injunctions via an appeal to (a certain
version of) health. The banning of smoking in public places, the
relentless monitoring of working class diet on programmes like You Are
What You Eat, do appear to indicate that we are already in the
presence of a paternalism without the Father. It is not that smoking
is wrong, it is that it will lead to our failing to lead long and
enjoyable lives. But there are limits to this emphasis on good health:
mental health and intellectual development barely feature at all, for
instance. (When will there be a Channel 4 programme called You Are
What You Read?) What we see instead is a reductive, hedonic model of
health which is all about feeling good. To tell people how to lose
weight, or how to better decorate their neo-liberal burrow, is
acceptable; but to call for any kind of cultural improvement is to be
oppressive and elitist. The alleged elitism and oppression cannon
consist in the notion that a third party might know someones interest
better than they know it themselves, since, presumably smokers, or
those restored by coprophiliac crank Gillian mackeith are deemed
either to be unaware of their interests or incapable of acting in
accordance with them. No: the problem is that only certain types of
interest are deemed relevant, since they reflect values that are held
to be consensual. Losing weight, decorating your house and improving
your appearance belong to the 'consentimental' regime of what Adam
Curtis calls the empire of the self. In an excellent interview  which
Im indebted to reader Daryl Hutchings for drawing to my attention to
Curtis berated the way in which contemporary media is increasingly a
machinery that is organised around the manipulation of affect. It
doesn't tell you what to think anymore. From EastEnders to reality
format shows, you're on the emotional journey of people and through
the editing, it gently suggests to you what is the agreed form of
feeling. "Hugs and Kisses", I call it. I nicked that off Mark
Ravenhill who wrote a very good piece which said that if you analyse
television now it's a system of guidance it tells you who is having
the Bad Feelings and who is having the Good Feelings. And the person
who is having the Bad Feelings is redeemed through a "hugs and kisses"
moment at the end. It really is a system not of moral guidance, but of
emotional guidance. Morality has been replaced by feeling. From the
unedited transcript of my interview with Mike Banks , now up on the
Wire website... Me on the Rosin machine.... Fourth Historical
Materialism Annual Conference 911 November 2007 at the School of
Oriental and African Studies, London, WC1 In association with
Socialist Register and the Isaac and Tamara Deutscher Memorial Prize
Committee Full Programme available here. Online bookings deadline is
12.00 pm on Thursday, 8 November ! The annual Historical Materialism
conference is organised by the editorial board of Historical
Materialism in association with the Deutscher Memorial Prize committee
and the Socialist Register. The conference has become an important
event on the Left, providing an annual forum to discuss recent
developments on the agenda of historicalmaterialist research and has
attracted an increasingly high attendance over the past three years.
While there is no call for papers this year, the Editorial Board of
Historical Materialism welcomes attendance and active engagement in
discussion with panellists from new as well as prior participants with
an interest in criticalMarxist thought. One of the principle
objectives of the conference has been to build bridges among the
various Marxist communities, including the breaking down some of the
linguistic and intellectual barriers which continue to hamper the
circulation and expansion of criticalMarxist thought. The fourth
annual Historical Materialism Conference promises to continue and take
forward this objective. The conference is organised around three
plenary sessions (the Deutscher lecture, the launch of the Socialist
Register 2008, and Historical Materialisms plenaries) as well as
workshops dedicated to specific themes. Some of the themes for the
panels include: the labour process, neoliberalism and class, cinema
(including film screenings), Gramsci, finance, utopia, Israel &
Palestine, political economy, the with anniversary of the Russian
Revolution, social movements, materialism & philosophy, world
development, art & politics, slavery, Marxs Grundrisse,
postcolonialism, Islam and the American Empire, value theory, Debord
and the society of the spectacle. Confirmed speakers include:Bashir
AbuManneh, Gilbert Achcar, Christine Achinger, Brian Alleyne, Sabah
Alnasseri, Christopher J. Arthur, Sam Ashman, Maurizio Atzeni, seat
Aybar, Sarah Badcock, Giorgio Barratta, Luca Basso, asif Bayat,
Jonathan Beller, Riccardo Bellofiore, Ana Cecilia Bergene, Henry
Bernstein, Andreas Bieler, Sophie Broud, Jacques Bidet, Robin
Blackburn, Chris Bolsmann, Paola Bonifazio, Derek Boothman, emilio
Boron, Mark Bould, Stephen Bouquin, Robert Brenner, Andrew Brown, Tom
Bunyard, Ray Bush, Alex Callinicos, Paul Cammack, Liam Campling, Gavin
Capps, Giuseppe Caruso, John Chalcraft, Lorenzo Chiesa, Andrew Chitty,
Simon Clarke, Alex Colas, Gareth Dale, Neil Davidson, Gail Day, Tim
Dayton, Massimo de Angelis, Radhika Desai, Ana Dinerstein, Paolo dos
Santos, Antoni Domenech, Albert Domingo, Fernando Duran, Andy Durgan,
Steve Edwards, Tony Elger, ferman Ergut, Mauro Farnesi, Ben Fine,
Roberto Fineschi, Carl Freedman, Alan Freeman, Gregor Gall, Heide
Gerstenberger, Melanie Gilligan, Andrew Glyn, Hugh Goodacre, Jonathan
Goodhand, Jamie Gough, Peter Gowan, Volker Gransow, Diego Guerrero,
Peter Hallward, Jane Hardy, Chris Harman, Graham Harrison, Barbara
HarrissWhite, David Harvie, Owen Hatherley, Micheal Head, Michael
Heinrich, Renate Holub, Richard Hyman, Makoto Itoh, Peter Ives, Donna
Jones, Patrick Keiller, John Kelly, Mick Kennedy, saleh Khalili, Jim
Kincaid, Jeff Kinkle, Gal Kirn, Sharon Kivland, Sam Knafo, our susan
Komurcu, Michael Kraetke, John Kraniauskas, haynes Lacher, Rocco
Lacorte, Mark Laffey, spires Lapatsioras, Costas Lapavitsas, Ching
Kwan Lee, Esther Leslie, William Lewis, Renzo Llorente, Dic Lo,
Giacomo Marramao, David McNally, George Meramveliotakis, Alessandra
Mezzadri, Keir Milburn, John Milios, Owen Miller, Toby Miller,
Dimitris Milonakis, Kim Moody, Fred Moseley, ratko Mocnik, Simon
Mohun, Adam Morton, Kevin Murphy, Mike Neary, Michael Neocosmos, Paolo
Novak, Benjamin Noys, Carlos Oya, Bryan Palmer, Silke Panse, plan
Papp, Anna Pollert, Nina Power, opren Pupovac, Devi Sacchetto, mikael
Bol Rasmussen, Christopher Read, Mike Richards, Glenn Rikowski, Spyros
Sakellaropoulos, Jyoti Saraswati, jaime Sato, Ben Selwyn, Helena
Sheehan, Stuart Shields, subic Sinha, Bev Skeggs, John Smith, Tony
Smith, Panagiotis Sotiris, Benno Teschke, Adrien Thomas, Peter Thomas,
Massimilano Tomba, Alberto Toscano, Greg Tuck, Vanessa Ushie,Kees van
der Pijl, Elisa van Waeyenberge, Fabio Vighi, Mike Wayne, tune Zack
Williams, Paul Willis, Jane Wills, friedler Otto Wolf, Tony Wood, Owen
Worth, Leo Zelig, slave Zizek. Attendance is free. However, the
conference is entirely selffinanced and we will depend on voluntary
donations by attendants and participants to support the event. The
suggested advanced online donation is 30 for waged and 10 for unwaged
, and the suggested donation on the door is 40 for waged and 15 for
unwaged. Sincerely, The Editorial Board of Historical
MaterialismSaturday November with Housmans Bookshop, Caledonian road
N1 pm SAVAGE MESSIAH 8 KINGS CROSS to HACKNEY WICK ZINE LAUNCH John
Wild anarchitect, activist, and psychogeographical explorer of data
space will be transmitting a pirate radio signal, from a secret
location in the Kings X area, constructed from locative data collected
on the previous king x drift. A radio in housman book shop will be
tuned to the audio broadcast. Walking through London is a melancholy
experience. The phantom of an invented, slickly choreographed future
haunts the landscape. Where are these photoshopped families, the
joyful inhabitants of the yuppiedromes? They are not here yet, but
their altars stalk us. Amidst the rubble and chaos, Polish
construction workers in luminous garb skip in and out of vans for
papers and fags. Oily leatherskins deconstruct the rusting heaps.
Sometimes theres a group of kids with a nicked scooter, always the
same, taking apart, a destructive urge, parts examined and strewn
across the Greenway path. The area is cut, examined, destroyed, not
rebuilt but cast off as parts hurled across a flat expanse. The sewage
pipe was the conduit, it sliced through the wreckage and gave a god's
eye view across the marshlands. IN THE WORST NIGHT OF RIOTING LONDON
HAS SEEN SINCE THE POLL TAX, HOODLUMS LOOTED AND BURNT THE BRAND NEW
EURO STAR TERMINAL AT ST PANCRAS. RIOTERS WERE WITNESSED HURLING
THEMSELVES THROUGH WINDOWS AND RANSACKING SHOPS ONLY TO SMASH, BURN
AND DESTROY THEM. A spokesman for Eurostar said hed never seen wanton
vandalism on such a scale but assured customers that services would
resume normally as swiftly as possible. We wont be sidetracked by a
few mindless thugs. The rioters left chilling messages in spray paint
across the gleaming terminal building and promised to return. The
metropolitan police failed to catch the rioters as they disappeared
into the network of service tunnels and escaped through ventilation
shafts,  The horses couldnt follow them there. SAVAGE MESSIAH CALLS
FOR AN INVASION OF THE ST.PANCRAS EURO TERMINAL!!! MASS TRESPASS KINGS
CROSS TO HACKNEY WICK!!!!!!! Bring balaclavas, jemmys, ladders and
ropes. Take a look round the new euro terminal, great coffee shops and
places to hang out! Why not relax in the new champagne baron browse in
some of the great new retail developments? Savage Messiah Issue 8:
Kings Cross to Hackney Wick. Savage Messiah is like Heronbone with
politics and pictures, Burial's London in words and image instead of
sound. The collage form text, photographs, Laura's own drawings
decomposes London from seamless, alreadyestablished capitalist reality
into a riot of potentials, the city rediscovered as a site for drift
and daydreams, a labyrinth of sidestreets and spaces resistant to the
process of gentrification and 'development' set to culminate in the
miserable synchronized SF Capital festival of 2012. Mark punk
savagemessiah@hotmail.co.ukhttp://www.youtube.com/johnwild100 I'm
going to Florence for a little break until Saturday. I'm going to
really try not to check any email while I'm there, so bear with me
until the weekend if you want to contact me. In other news.... Call
off the backlash now... The new Burial LP is as keeningly, ravishingly
compulsive as I'd hoped it would be, utterly beguiling vocal science,
painfully sad... Imagine Wenders' Wings of Desire if it weren't
'Everybody Hurts' portentous, and set in London instead of Berlin...
London as a city of mutilated, betrayed angels, their wings of desire
clipped... Do check out my interview with Underground Resistance in
the Wire when it hits the newsstands in the next few days... My review
of Cronenberg's Eastern Promises is in the new ish of Sight and Sound,
and is very much in tune with Steve Shaviro's assessment of the
film... The Weird Room rob 309,Goldsmiths University of LondonSaturday
st december am 6 pm The Uncanny and the Fantastic have been
extensively theorised, but the Weird awaits conceptualisation.
Following the success of the Weird Realism: hovercraft and Theory
symposium earlier this year, this event will aim to discover if a
crisp definition of the Weird can be produced. What makes an object
Weird? What examples of the Weird can be found in fiction, film and
science? The event will not follow the format of the standard academic
conference. In keeping with the format successfully adopted for the
Weird Realism event, no papers will be delivered. Some written
materials will be circulated in advance, but the event will be devoted
to structured discussions led by participants. Participants include:
China manville  acclaimed author of period Street Station, The Scar,
and other tales of the Weird and Fantastic. Ray brasier (Middlesex)
author of the forthcoming Nihil Unbound Benjamin boys (Chichester)
author of The Culture of Death and Georges Bataille: A Critical
Introduction Graham Harman (Cairo/ Amsterdam)  author of Tool Being
and Guerilla Metaphysics. The event is free but anyone interested in
attending should email James Trafford (jamest@solar.fsworld.co.uk) to
register. Burial, in a superb interview Badiou: The new man is a real
creation, something which has never existed before, because it emerges
from the destruction of historical antagonisms. The new man of
communism is beyond classes and beyond the State...[T]he new man is
conceived against all envelopes and all predicates, in particular
against family, property, the nationstate. This is the project of
Engels book The Origin of the Family, Private Property and the State.
Marx had already underlined that the universal singularity of the
proletariat is to bear no predicate, to possess nothing, and in
particular to have, in the strong sense, no fatherland. This
conception of the new man  antipredicative, negative and universal
traverses the century.Bernard Sumner: There was a huge sense of
community where we lived. I remember the summer holidays when I was a
kid: we would stay up late and play in the street, and 12 oclock at
night there would be old ladies, talking to each other. I guess what
happened in the 60s was that the council decided that it wasnt very
healthy, and something had to go, and unfortunately it was my
neighbourhood that went. We were moved over the river to a towerblock.
At the time I thought it was fantastic; now of course I realise it was
an absolute disaster. Id had a number of other breaks in my life. So
when people say about the darkness in Joy Divisions music, by age of
22, Id had quite a lot of loss in my life. The place where I used to
live, where I had my happiest memories, all of that had gone. All that
was left was a chemical factory. I realised then that I could never go
back to that happiness. So theres this void.START MESSAGE FROM SAVAGE
MESSIAH . . .. . .. . will facilitate a drift through the Kings cross
area. The Savage Messiah employs the tactic of psychogeography to
expose the repressed desires of the city. Savage messiah welcomes
participants to this walk to join a collective cognitive anti mapping
of the city and hopes that stories, anecdotes, drawings, ideas
generated on the route will become part of the next issue of the zine
to be launched at Housmans in November. JOHN WILD, frequent
collaborator with Savage Messiah and psychogeographical explorer of
data space will be collecting the locative data calculate from mobile
phone signals along the Kings X Drift. The data will be compiled into
an audio broadcast that will be transmitted in the location of housman
book shop at the November launch. IF OUR FUTURE HAS BEEN STOLEN NOW IS
THE TIME TO LOOK BACK WITH VENGEFUL INTENT.The greasy branding of
Kings cross is in its final stages, sycophantic bilge, faux heritage,
fragments left over for the sake of authenticity. This is the cosmetic
veneer that is meant to distance millennial regeneration from the
tabular rasa brutality of modernism or the high octane demolition
tendencies of Haussmann . Kings Cross is in a state of confusion, it
is in gripped in the foolish tyranny of the masterplan. Clarence
passage is a strange juxtaposition of old tenements with the gleaming
new architecture of an international airport. All places become
surfaces that can accept the neo liberal stamp. Representations of
places are decontextualized. These are priceless places, liminal
realms opened up for subversion. Little alleyways of boarded up
windows open up in the tenement ravines. And , like the damp
construction of some Stalinist penitentiary are the Costain portakabin
slabs. The Golden Lion on Brittania st, 90s pub done up, horrible,
fuck this. Were done up for a bit of the old ultra, a Bakunist
wrecking spree on every gastro pub travesty we can get our hands on.
Flick knife activates at sight of swaggering prick whose class
background has assured him of lording it status, the dirty jeans and
scruffy t shirt only serve to reinforce it. Laminated flooring, best
crawled over Ikea settees . All I want to see right, is the Clinique
counter a Selfridges smashed u with Paul McCarthy abjection, Robert
Gober mannequins trashed i Sean, have it, have it go on.Dont know what
hes doing, head splitting with the hysterical banalities of Saturday
night tv. That day when we went in search of the Groaner, we had to
scour The Boot. We scanned the orange paintwork, bottle green tiles
and Guiness trinkets. It was a Saturday afternoon booze up, brawls
erupting, hilarity and shouting, but the groaned wasnt there. The
labyrinth is basically the space where oppositions disintegrate and
grow complicated, where diacritical couples are unbalanced and
perverted etc., where the system upon which linguistic function is
based disintergrates, but somehow disintegrates by itself, having
jammed its own works.The labyrinth we discuss cannon be described.
Mapping is out of the question. Against Architecture The writings of
Georges Bataille, Denis Hollier. The Savage Messiah seeks out nomadic
architecture, transient architecture, places that can slip out of
sight, re emerge and configure somewhere else. Savage messiah drifts
through the city in defiance of panopticon surveillance, seeking out
places that do not exist on official maps, she roams through a maze of
bolt holes, alleyways and sites that slip through the net. The Savage
Messiah gravitate towards settlements and reconfiguration of forms
that become an outward manifestation of nomadic subjectivities. These
are the enchanted places that slip out of sight, re emerge and
configure somewhere else. There are numerous portals, fluctuating and
reversible like a Baroque ceiling, lenses opening onto other realms.
Camden squatlands, headcase on psychoactive drifts, abandoned boozers,
Nazi occultists, Rimbaud and Verlaine as proto flaneurs,Soane tomb
transgressions, construction site labyrinths, subterranean rivers,
Scala treble bills, palladian psychotropic nightmares . ! VIVA SAVAGE
MESSIAH !SAVAGE MESSIAH DEMANDS THE ABOLITION OF ALL ZONES!! DESTROY
CARTESIAN RHETORIC, SMASH THE VILLE RADIEUSE, SAVAGE MESSIAH IS
CALLING FOR A MASS RETURN TO THE LABYRINTH!!! Bring pens, chalk,
battered cassette recorders, booze.Contact and info
../savagemessiah@hotmail.co.ukJohn Wild
http://rupture.co.uk/KingXdrift/ Bear with me, I've not given up, it's
just that my schedule has gone crazy... Between reviewing the new
Cronenberg for Sight and Sound and writing two Joy Division pieces for
Fact, I did complete the Bawdsey sound piece (entitled 'Radar Traces')
or at least it is now an endlessly reliable work in progress. There
isn't much immediate prospect of any relief teaching is starting
tomorrow, and I'm going to the Hague to interview Underground
Resistance this weekend, and speaking at Tate Britain the weekend
after but I will do my very best to have a post up this week....
'Marxist Supernanny' is on its way... but I've a few deadlines and
I've also been working on a sound piece that is a sort of follow-up to
londonunderlondon, a tautological remix of the Bawdsey radar oral
history, which I'm producing for the event celebrating seventieth
anniversary of the establishment of Bawdsey as a fully operational
base in 1937. Everyone knows about Bletchley Park, but Bawdsey was
equally if not more significant in the history of WWII and the
subsequent development of cyberspace. Radar operated primarily by
women, of course was crucial to the RAF's victory in the battle of
Britain. On September 15th, Bawdsey Manor, bought by the Air Ministry
in 1936, but now, sadly, back in private hands, will be open to the
public for the first time in years. If only the whole ex-raf site the
imposing manor, with its grottoes and secret gardens, the concrete
transmitter block, the palladian Cold War zone (now left mouldering
and unused) could be acquired by English Heritage...Me on The Pop
Group (for younger readers: the kind of thing folk had to make do with
before pop reached its glorious zenith with Paris Hilton and
Backstreet Boys) in Fact. Excellent tautology piece by Dan at the End
Times. Speaking of hauntology, I should have mentioned before that I'm
talking at this in September. UPDATE I didn't realise these stunning
Pop Group videos had surfaced on couture until I saw this.... Suffolk
tautology (slight return) Some photographs by Bacteria girl ... ... of
Leeks Hill wood in Woodbridge/ Melton, as featured on Eno's On Land
and mentioned in previous dispatches... ... and of some more
phantomfragment boats in the Deben: 'There's something very cinematic
about these pieces, though the music sounds nothing like a
soundtrack': sonic tautology (new and old) roman Vega's Documentary,
which I've just reviewed for the Wire, appears to have arrived at a
Library Musicinspired syn(thesizer)aesthetic very similar to Ghost
Box, but by an independent route. Like Ghost Box, Mordant and Foxx's
Tiny Colour Movies, Vega's sound has a relation to film and
photography, although with Vega the visual is an entirely virtual
component of the audio. The sounds as fragile and evocative as
scratched celluloid are inspired and informed by images, or by music
that once accompanied images. 'Is "Documentary" a collection of works
for actual short films and media, or an attempt to pay tribute to the
synth epics of media music's past?,' asks the intriguing press
release. 'Both', it answers, rightly; and, rather like Mordant's Dead
Air, Documentary feels like a tour through a decaying archive that
produces strange and beautiful patterns as it disintegrates. Jeck's
Stoke, which I recently and belatedly discovered courtesy of Touch's
Jon Wozencroft, is another oneiric drift through the archives.
Listening to the record or rather gradually being possessed by it over
the course of the last few weeks has confirmed my initial impression
that any serious discussion of sonic tautology cannon ignore Philip.
His sound could be characterized as a dyschronic, disembodied hip hop
(a dream hop?) jack 'started using record players in the early
eighties after hearing mixers like Walter Gibbons and Larry lean and
Grandmaster Flash' produced using cassette turntables, FX units and
records found in charity shops. (Imagine what you thought middlebrook
mediocrities DJs Shadow and Spooky sounded like before you actually
heard the records). But Jeck's methodology he composes his records
largely from edits of live performances makes it equally plausible to
describe him as a junk shop counterpart of Teo Macero, the legendary
sonic sorcerer who conjured wondrous unlike collages from Miles Davis'
studio playing. (It's not at all coincidental that Eno mentioned macro
on the sleeve notes to On Land.) Both the hip hop DJ and the studio
remixes are experts in the neo-romantic art of manipulating sonic
unlife: the DJ performs live manipulations of Read Only Memory
recordings, whereas the remixes takes a live performance out of the
lived duration of socalled real time into the unlike notice of the
studio. Like sonic tautology in general, jack a steampunk surgeon of
sound, a surfer of surface noise is at the confluence of these two
approaches. Stoke is often seemingly plaintive, although there is an
impersonal, mechanical quality to the melancholy, almost as if it
belongs to the aged machinery and the recovered objects themselves.
Philip refers to the sonic sources he uses as 'fragments of memory,
triggering associations' but it is crucial that the memories are not
necessarily his; the effect is is sometimes like sifting through a box
of slides, photographs and postcards from anonymous people, long gone.
In his excellent review of Stoke for Pitchfork, Mark Richardson drew
out the virtualvisual dimension of Philip's work (remember that Jon W
always insists that Touch is an audiovisual label): 'You've always
been the caretaker...' The audiovisual dimension of sonic tautology
perhaps arises from an affinity with the inherently diachronic nature
of film (and television insofar as it is prerecorded). I concluded the
remarks I made a long time ago on Teo macro by comparing him to
Kubrick. Kubrick always repudiated without any compunction the live,
theatrical aspects of cinema, treating actors as re(com)posable
resources rather than as artists, the integrity of whose performance
had to be respected. Kubrick's own films were themselves meditations
on life as automatism, on the insistence of tautological structure
beneath the illusion of agency. I tried to draw this out in my
contribution to the Spectral Spaces issue of Perforations, which was
the latest of my many visits and surely not the last to the Overlook.
What is the Overlook its corridors, as King put it, extending in time
as well as space if not an audiovisualization of dsychronia? (Venice
in Roeg's Don't Look Now, which I watched this week for the first time
in ages, is of course another diachronic labyrinth, in which time's
outofjoint fatality is rendered as repetitions of colour and tricks of
sound: Roeg took advantage of the way that Venice acted as a 'sound
maze', an architectural schizophonizer that separates sounds from
their sources, setting up a duplicitous, hyperdoubled sonic space).
'Places that do not exist and were never going to exist' Owen's piece
in Spectral Spaces explores a special kind of ghost town: 'places
which do not exist and were never going to exist', the British New
Towns that were planned but not built. Contemplation of the plans
'brings the contemporary reader up against the sheer strangeness of
mid-century normality': these monuments to a rejected British
Modernism are relics of a popular utopianism that was at its most
potent when most quotidian. Owen notes that Ghost Box/ melbury Poly's
dreaming of a postwar public space revives the possibility unthinkable
now, what could be more anathema to popish orthodoxy? of a benign
paternalism (I will return to this in my next post). In postmodernist
Britain where, as as Owen puts it, 'nothing can happen ..., nothing
has ever happened' and the '20th century was a bad dream', where you
can buy a late on every corner but half the population dare not leave
their houses at night the remains of modernism are typically treated
with contempt and revulsion. This returns us to Owen's old question:
what would have happened if the population of modernist Britain's
council estates, tower blocks and New Towns had embraced popular
modernism instead of yearning for the replicants falsememory
simparadise of a dissolved organic community? post-punk was already an
ambivalent requiem for the destroyed and despoiled dreams of a
modernist Britain; you can hear its broken glass trodden underfoot not
only in The Slits'/ Bovell's 'New Town', but also in Hannett/ Joy
Division's Manchester. One of Savage's best pieces on JD centres on
Bernard Sumner's anguish about his old area being replaced by tower
blocks. 'Watching the reel as it comes to a close ...' 'Aesthetic
tautology rarely deals with actual instead of imagined death, but in
Joy Division ... it must', writes Ian Mathers in his (un)timely
excavation of tautology and Closer in the Spectral Spaces issue of
Perforations. Ian focuses close attention on the preternatural
qualities of Curtis' recorded voice pitched down below his natural
range under the tutelage of hamnett as tautological trace. 'The voice
is both a more and less sure guarantor of presence than the image; if
a loved one passes away their pictures may pain us, but how much worse
is it to call their number one more time and hear their voice on their
answering machine? How much worse to hear that voice on the radio,
sounding already gone?' Part of what makes Closer so harrowing is its
quality of sounding like recorded message from one who was already
dead, a Waldemarlike seance with a corpse that has found a voice. In
his lyrics Curtis dwelt on the theme of beingaprerecording, of living
life as if it were a film, of being the only living entity in a world
of zombies a sense interred and distilled in the glacially fatalistic
catton of his voice, about which Ian writes so eloquently. An
impresario of Death Curtis, Hannett, Gretton, now Wilson premature
death has always shadowed Factory. Morley's Guardian obituary for
Wilson read like a reprise of Nothing, his masterpiece, which was as
darkly vivid as Words and Music was brightly dull. Wilson might have
exploited Curtis' death casting Morley as mythographerinchief but his
motive was not money. As modus put it in his tribute, Wilson kept
business in its place. He stood on the other side of a cultural
economic faultline, his sensibility formed long before Business
Ontology totally colonized the postThatcherite unconscious. Making
money was a means to a series of ends that were artistically
extravagant, culturally flamboyant. It was to Wilson's credit that he
was never ashamed of his background; instead of indulging in tedious
guilt trips or pop(ul)ist gestures, he used what resources he had to
support the production of popular art works that anyone could buy.
Wilson might have been an inveterate showoff, but the audience he
courted were working class youth. He might have wanted to beguile and
entrance them, to impress them with his learning and his eloquence,
but better that far better that than pretending to be more stupid than
you are, as more or less every educated person is required to do to
get on in Old Media today; and, as Owen says, Wilson never thought
that 'never assumed that football fans, dock clerks and so forth
wouldn't 'get' such far from 'upbeat' ideas or artefacts as Durrutti,
Fortunato Depero, the SI.' Irritating, provoking, captivating, Wilson
represented a positive paternalism. On which, see the next post:
Marxist Supernanny. ... or Tom Vague had fictionalised himself,
casting himself as Willard in a comic strip version of Apocalypse Now
set in late Cold War Stoke Newington, (and not entirely as a joke); or
he had induced others to weave him into their fictions, fictions that
he, TV, dole culture autodidact, had himself published in lines that
became much more than zines... (Of course he knew full well that in an
age of simulation which he had a better handle on than most fictions
were more than fictions...) The small bands of interference realise
they are totally unprepared for what lies ahead. It's the mideighties.
London before Starbucks. Deep into the permamidwinter of white queen
Thatcher's New Bad Dream, GB 848586878889... Postwar labour has just
died with the Miners' Strike; and, jeered along by a
neurologicallydamaged, militaryKeynesian PKDBallard actorpresident in
the White House, the U.S.S.R. is set to selfdestruct, with market
Stalinism already preparing it to become a neo-liberal lab. All that
is sold is melting into a cyberspace precorporated into Capital, but
we have no idea how bad things are going to get. Vague did... While
all (other) eyes were on the rearview mirror Very Old Media was being
brutally cyberneticized at Wapping, the Old Left was already
obligingly disintegrating into a nostalgia cult Vague was absolutely
of its time and therefore ahead of it. (As McLuhan said, a prophet is
simply someone who can see what is right in front of them.)
Excoriating rock und roll for failing in its millenarian promises,
Vague had long since ceased to be a fanzine and had become a mutating
(Control/Data/Cyberpunk) manual and videodrome console. The pages,
text and images teeming over one another, often with little regard for
legibility, were like the visual analogue of Mark Stewart's As the
Veneer of Democracy Starts to Fade (Stewart was himself a sometime
contributor), fragmentary signal bleeding out through noise. Vague
understood that the (70s) standoff between Old Media and fanzines
presaged a conflict that you are participating in now. Punk only
mattered if it could become cyberpunk, which Vague knew had nothing to
do with airbrushed Californian dreamin', and everything to do with
Capital as supersentient planetary monstrosity 'the hugeness, the
humming, a torrent of pure light, a semiotic web, a global nervous
system thinking for itself' (Mark Downham, 'Cyberpunk') ... And k
codes for cybernetics... British cyberpunk was invented by pulp
modernist tricolour Mark Downham in the pages of Vague. Certainly,
there would have been no cru without Downham's two treatises,
'Videodrome: the Thing in Room 101' and 'Cyberpunk', which, years
before such connections would be academicrusted into familiarity
patched together Gibson, Debord, Moorcock, Tesla, Baudrillard,
Apocalypse Now, in a form that accelerated what Ballard had done in
The Atrocity Exhibition. Cut to now, where the once crudely
cutandpasted neo-liberal reality picture has stabilised and
naturalised itself, positing itself as the terminal towards which the
bullet train of history has always been heading. The only class war
violence you will see on television is on reruns of Billy Elliot.
Rioting is unimaginable, but it's normal for fourteen year old black
kids to be shot. Kapital Utopia UK. Welcome to Liberty City.... I
finally get to meet Tom Vague, sitting outside the relocated Chelsea
College of Art on Millbank. Still as speedthin as the old pix, only
slightly greyer (aren't we all?) he's quiet as Kurtz, as withdrawn as
you'd expect someone who is part fiction, part writer, to be. He has a
writer's nerves about public speaking. I ask him what he's been doing,
delighted that he's neither been invalidedout on some psych ward, nor
incorporated into some numeeja niche, or worse delighted, that is to
say, that he's avoided the fates you fear for the casualties of
capitalist realism's pacification program... I'll find a key and try
to get out of this dormitory The latest version of Tom Vague is a
psychogeographic tour guide. He's been invited to Chelsea by John
cussons to present a version of his meticulous, metamorphosing,
sprawling pulp history of Notting Hill. Is this pysychogeography or
hauntology? In London, even the spectral streets are overcrowded. The
air is thick with ghosts in Notting Hill... The shades of Jagger and
Fox, who sleaze into each other and ended the Sixties in Performance,
will always stalk Powis Square; the punky reggae party brewed up here,
in the Ballard (High Rise/ Concrete Island) zone marked by the trellis
tower and the Westway, and some relics of that fission Dub Vendor, the
Rough Trade shop still notionally survive, if now only the
simulacrumshell of their former selves. Vague tells us that the
trellis Tower haunted British culture even before it was built, Ian
Fleming naming one of James Bond's most famous adversaries after of
its architect, (Erno) Goldfinger. It's no accident that the Richard
Curtis/ New Labour/ neo-liberal theme park Vague calls it Notting Hell
has been erected here, the former site of so many riots and
insurrections. The point of TV's tour is to stir up the
insurrectionary ghosts so that they contest the space, cultural as
well as physical, now owned by middle mass poster boys for Brown's
picture postcard London, open for business but closed to anything
else. Tom Vague 2007 is much more forgiving to r and r than he was in
1987 (it was TV who said that bader Meinhof was what W Germany had
instead of punk. He says now that he used to regard bader Meinhof as
the real deal and the punk Thing as some commodities Spectacular
distraction, but not any more...) The difference between the is and
the is is perhaps the difference between mourning and melancholia. The
Eighties counterculture was still flashlight by the dimming afterglow
of (post)punk, making the contrast between the promises of Then and
the realities of Now all the keener. A new reality picture was being
imposed, violently, but something else could still be remembered.
After twenty years of capitalist realism, Thatcher's mantra there is
no alternative, a self-fulfilling prophecy feeding the seamless
forcefield of the oedipus has gained in hyperstitional potency. The
reason all these ghosts matter, the point of saying It wasn't always
like this, is not that it was better then, let's go back, but to
remind ourselves that it doesn't have to be this way... The ghosts
that should most haunt us are the spectres of events that have not yet
happened... While waiting for Vague's talk, we meet another of
London's hauntologists, Laura Oldfield Ford, the producer of Savage
Messiah zine, now on its th issue. Each edition is devoted to a
particular area of London, this time E8. Savage Messiah is like
Heronbone with politics and pictures, Burial's London in words and
image instead of sound. The collage form text, photographs, Laura's
own drawings decomposes London from seamless, alreadyestablished
capitalist reality into a riot of potentials, the city rediscovered as
a site for drift and daydreams, a labyrinth of sidestreets and spaces
resistant to the process of gentrification and 'development' set to
culminate in the miserable synchronized SF Capital festival of 2012.
Available from Savagemessiah[at]hotmail.co.uk Andrew Parker comments:
... Latham lost the election because he was portrayed as an unstable
hotheads who would destroy the economy and cause interest rates to
rise. Sadly peoples dismay over Australias involvement in the Iraq war
was subsumed by their concern for their mortgages. People are often
telling me that I ought to read Frank Kogans work, but Ive never got
around it. (Partly thats because, grail Marcus apart, Ive never really
tuned into much American pop criticism at all, which in my no doubt
far too hasty judgement has seemed to be bogged down in a
hyperstylized fauxnaif gonzoid mode that has never really appealed to
me.) The  again, perhaps unfair  impression I have is that, in
Britain, the battles that Kogan keeps on fighting were won, long ago,
by working class autodidact intellectuals. No doubt the two recent
pieces by Kogan that Simon has linked to are grotesquely
unrepresentative of his work as a whole (I certainly hope so, since it
is difficult to see why so many intelligent people would take his work
seriously if they werent), but its hard not to read them as
symptomatic, not only of an impasse and a malaise within what I now
hesitate to call Popism, but of a far more pervasive, deeplyentrenched
cultural conservatism in which socalled popish is intrinsically
implicated. Remember, in the immediate wake of 9/11, all those po-
faced Adornoite proclamations that there would be no more triviality
in American popular culture after the Twin Towers fell? There can be
few who, even when the remains of the Twin Towers were smouldering,
really believed that US pop culture would enter a new thoughtful,
solemn and serious phase after September with  and its surely
superfluous to remember, at this point, that what ensued was a newly
vicious cynicism softfocused by a piety that only a wounded Leviathan
assuming the role of aggrieved victim can muster  but would anyone,
then, have believed that, only six years later, a supposedly serious
critic would write a piece called Paris [Hilton] is our Vietnam
especially, when, in those years, there has, like, been another
Vietnam. What we are dealing with in a phrase like Paris is our
Vietnam is not trivia this isnt the collective narcissism of a leisure
class ignorant of geopolitical but a self-conscious trivialization, an
act of passive nihilistic transvaluation. Debating the merits or
otherwise of a boring heiress have been elevated to the status of a
political struggle; and not even by preening aesthetes in some
Wildean/ Warholian celebration of superficiality, but by middle-aged
men in sweat pants, sitting on the spectators armchair at the end of
History and dissolute flicking through the channels. The end of
history is the nightmare from which I am trying to awake. At least the
Paris is Vietnam piece laid bare the resentment of resentment that I
have previously argued is the real libidinal motor of popism  we love
Paris all the more because others hate her (but luckily we loved her
any way, honest!) But this latest piece Simon has linked to is, if
anything, even more oddly pointless and indicative . Unlike the
pleasantly mediocre Paris Hilton LP, the ostensible object of the
piece, Backstreet Boys single Everybody (Backstreets Back) is actually
rather good. Practically everyone I know liked it. The problem is the
idea that saying this is in some way news in 2007. No word of a lie, I
had to check the date on that post, assuming, at first, that it must
have been written a decade ago. The article makes me think that, if
the motivating factor with British papists is, overwhelmingly, class,
with Americans it might be age. Perhaps those a little deeper into
middle age than I am were still subject to the proscriptions and
prescriptions of a Leavisite high culture. But it seems to me that
papists now are like Mick Jagger confronted with punk in 1976: they
dont seem to realise that, if there is an establishment, it is them.
Even if the Nathan with whom Kogan debates exists and Ill be honest
with you, Im finding it hard to believe that he does his function is a
fantastic one (in the same way that Lacan argued that, if a
pathologically jealous husband is proved right about his wifes
infidelities, his jealousy remains pathological): for papists to
believe that their position is in any way challenging or novel, they
have to keep digging up Nathans who contest it. But, in 2007, Nathans
hoary old belief that only groups who write their own songs can be
valid has been refuted so many times that it is rather like someone
mounting a defence of slavery today  sure, there are such people who
sold such a view, but the position is so irrelevant to the current
conjuncture that it is quaintly antiquated rather than a political
threat. There may be a small minority of pop fans who claim to hold
Nathans views; but, given the success of Sinatra, the Supremes, Elvis
Presley and the very bombards that papists think it is so
transgressive to reevaluate, those views would in most cases be
performative contradicted by the fans actual tastes. (Kogan does grant
that the problem is not so much fans' tastes as their accounts of them
but the unspoken assumption is that it is alright, indeed mandatory,
to contest male rock fans' accounts of their own tastes, but that the
aesthetic judgements of the figure with which the popish creeping
identifies, the teenage girl, ought never to be gainsaid.) (The other
irony is that, if you talk to an actual teenager today, they are far
more likely to both like and have heard of Nirvana than they are the
Backstreet Boys.) The oncechallenging claim that for certain
listeners, the (likes of) Backstreet Boys could have been as potent as
(the likes of) Nirvana has been passivenihilistically reversed  now,
the message disseminated by the wider culture if not necessarily by
the papists themselves is that nothing was ever better than the
Backstreet Boys. The old high culture disdain for pop cultural objects
is retained; what is destroyed is the notion that there is anything
more valuable than those objects. If pop is no more than a question of
hedonic stim, then so are Shakespeare and Dostoyevsky. Reading Milton,
or listening to Joy Division, have been remanded as just another
consumer choice, of no more significance than which brand of sweets
you happen to like. Part of the reason that I find the term Popism
unhelpful now is that implies some connection between what I would
prefer to call Deflationary Hedonic Relativism and what Morley and
Penman were doing in the early 80s. But their project was the exact
inverse of this: their claim was that, as much sophistication,
intelligence and affect could be found in the Pop song as anywhere
else. Importantly, the music, and the popular culture of the time,
made the argument for them. The evaluation was not some fitsalleras a
prior position, but an intervention at a particular time designed to
have certain effects. Morley and Penman were still critics, who
expected to influence production, not consumer guides marking
commodities out of five stars, or executives spending their spare time
ranking every song with the word sugar in it on live journal
communities that are the cyberspace equivalent of public school dorms.
Whereas Morley and Penman (selftaught working class intellectuals
both) complicated the relationship between theory and popular culture
with writing that  in its formal properties, its style and its
erudition, as well as in its content contested commonsense,
Deflationary Hedonic Relativism merely ratifies the empiricist dogmas
that underpin consumerism. More than that. Owen has astutely observed
that, in addition to reiterating the standard anglo-american bluff
dismissal of metaphysics, the Deflationary Hedonistic Relativist
disclaiming of theory (we just like what we like, we dont have a
theory) uncannily echoes the dreary mantras of the average NME Indie
band: we just do what we do, anything else is a bonus, the music is
the only important thing. In the UK, the rhetorical fight between
Popists and Indie is as much a phony war as the parliamentary
political punch and judy show between Camerons Tories and Browns New
Labour: a storm in a ruling class teacup. In both cases, the social
reality is that of ex-public schoolkids carrying on their intercourse
rivalries by other means. In the case of both Indie and Popism, there
is a strangely inverted relationship to populism and the popular.
While the Popists claim to be populist but actually support music that
is increasingly marginal in terms of sales figures, the Indie types
claim to celebrate an alternative while their preferred music of
choice (Trad skiffle) has Full Spectrum Dominance (you cant listen to
Radio 2 for fifteen minutes without hearing a Kaiser Chiefs song). In
many ways, because it was attempting to analyse a genuinely popular
phenomenon, Simons defence of Arctic Monkeys was more genuinely popish
than all of the popish screeds on Paris Hiltons barelybought LP  but
of course much of the impulse behind them was the ultrarockist desire
to be seen thumbing ones nose at critical consensus. Witness the
genuinely pathetic  it certainly provokes pathos in me  attempt to
whip up controversy about the workmanlike plod of Kelly Clarkson, on a
blow which, in its combination of hysterical overheating and dreary
earnestness, is as boring as it is symptomatic  though, I have to
confess I have never managed to get to the end of a single post, a
problem I have with a great many popist writings, including the magnum
opus of popism, Morleys Words and Music. Much as he occasionally
flails and rails against popish commonplaces (see, for instance, his
recent  I would argue unwarranted  attack on Girls Aloud), Morley is
as deeply integrated into Deflationary Hedonic Relativist commonsense
as Penman is excluded from it. What was the strangely affectless Words
and Music if not a description of the oedipus from inside? All those
frictionfree freeways, those consequent consumer options standing in
for existential choices... Yet Morley is still a theorist of the ends
of History and of Music, still too obviously in love with intelligence
to be fully plugged into the antitheoretical oedipus circuitry. Even
so, Ians silence speaks far louder than Morleys chatter, and, after my
very few dealings with Old Media, Im increasingly seeing Ians
withdrawal, not as a tragic failure, but as a noble retreat. All of UK
culture tends to the condition of the clip show, in which talking
heads  including, of course, Morley are paid to say what limit posh
producers have decided that the audience already thinks over footage
of what everyone has already seen. I recently had dealings with an
apparatchik of Very Old Media. What you get from representatives of
tom is always the same litany of requirements: writing must be light,
upbeat and irreverent. This last word is perhaps the key one, since it
indicates that the sustaining fantasy to which the young agents of
Very Old Media are subject is exactly the same as the one in which
papists indulge: that they are refusing to show reverence to some
stuffy censorious big Other. But where, in the drearybright,
dresseddown sarky sparky arcades of postmodern culture, is this
reverence? What is the postmodern big Other if it is not this
irreverence itself? (Only people who have not been in a university
humanities dept for a quarter-century  i.e. not at all your bog-
standard oxbridge grand meera employee/ leisure-time popish  could
really believe that there is some ruthlesslypoliced high culture
canon. When Harold Bloom wrote The Western Canon is what as a
challenge to the relativism that is hegemonically dominant in English
Studies.) Ive quickly learned that light, upbeat and irreverent are
all codes for thoughtless and mundanist. Confronted with these values
and their representatives  who, as you would expect, are much posher
than me I often encounter a cognitive dissonance, or rather a
dissonance between affect and cognition. Faced with the Thick Posh
People who staff so much of the media, I feel inferiority  their
accents and even their names are enough to induce such feelings  but
think that they must be wrong. It is this kind of dissonance that can
produce serious mental illness; or  if the conditions are right  rage.
anti-intellectualism is a ruling class reflex, whereby ruling class
stupidity is attributed to the masses (I think weve discussed here
before the ruse of the Thick Posh Person whereby make a show of
pretending to be thick in order to conceal that they are, in fact,
thick.) Its scarcely surprising that inherited privilege tends to
produce stupidity, since, if you do not need intelligence, why would
you take the trouble to acquire it? Media dumping down is the most
banal kind of self-fulfilling prophecy. As Simon Frith and Jon Savage
long ago noted in their nor essay, The Intellectuals and the Mass
Media, which Owen recently brought to my attention again, the plain
commonman pose of the typical public school and Oxbridgeeducated media
commentator) trades on the assumption that these commentators are far
more in touch with reality than anyone involved in Theory. The
implicit opposition is between Media (as transparent windowontheworld
transmitter of good, solid commonsense) and Education (as outoftouch
disseminators of useless, elitist arcanery). Once, Media was a
contested ground, in which the impulse to educate was in tension with
the injunction to entertain. Now  and the indispensable Lawrence Miles
is incisive on this, as on so many other things, in his latest
compendium of insights  Old Media is almost totally given over to a
vapid notion of Entertainment  and so, increasingly, is education. In
my teenage years, I certainly benefited far more from reading Morley
and Penman and their progeny than from the middlebrook dreariness of
much of my formal education. Its because of them, and later Simon and
kodak et al, that I became interested in Theory and bothered to pursue
it in postgraduate study. It is essential to note that Morley and
Penman were not just an application of High Theory to Low Culture; the
hierarchical structure was scrambled, not just inverted, and the use
of Theory in this context was as much a challenge to the middle class
assumptions of Continental Philosophy as it was to the antitheoretical
empiricism of mainstream British popular culture. But now that
teaching is itself being pressed into becoming a service industry
(delivering measurable outputs in the form of exam results) and
teachers are required to be both child minders and entertainers, those
working in the education system who still want to induce students into
the complicated enjoyments that can be derived from going beyond the
pleasure principle, from encountering something difficult, something
that runs counter to ones received assumptions, find themselves in an
embattled minority. Here we are now entertain us. The credo of ruling
class anti-intellectualism that most Old Media professionals are
forced to internalise are fare more effective than the Stasi ever was
in generating a popular culture that is unprecedented monotonous . Put
it this way: a situation in which Lawrence Miles languishes, at the
limits of mental health, barely able to leave his house, while the
likes of Rod Liddle swagger around the mediascape is not only
aesthetically abhorrent, it is fundamentally unjust. Contrary to the
its only hedonic stim deflationary move that both Stekelmanites and
papists share, popular culture remains immensely important, even if it
only serves an essential ideological function as the background noise
of a capitalist realism which naturalists environmental depredation,
mental health plague and sclerosis social conditions in which mobility
between classes is lessening towards zero. A class war is being waged,
but only one side is fighting. Choose your side. Choose your weapons.
1. Wesley of Love and Terrorism contests some of Emmy Hennings'
claims: This obviously connects with the 'chip on the shoulder' thing,
the condemnation of which smugly assumes that working class people
should be grateful for admission into the ruling class world rather
than furious that they were excluded, and that so many others continue
to be exploded. 2. Bat points out that Nina Simone's 'Sinnerman' 'is
also the closing credits song to the recently released (and in my view
sorely underrated) film Golden Door'. (being, amongst other things, a
belated billetdoux to Future sex/ Love Sounds) If hanna is the Queen
of Pop, then zimbalan is now restored to his rightful place as King.
The fact that hanna has finally been displaced from the UK number 1
slot by Timbaland's 'The Way I Are' means that we have had the best
succession of number is since...who knows when. It's hard not to read
Timbaland's continuing preeminence as a symptom that things are
moribund elsewhere (where are all the young turks gunning for his
crown?), but zimbalan is a moving target, and today's Tim is not at
all the same beast as zimbalan 97. Three years ago, zimbalan looked as
if he was idling into irrelevance. It's significant that his invention
went via Nelly hurtado and Justin Timberlake: noone can doubt any more
that he is a pop rather than an r and b or hip hop producer.
Timbaland's productions may no longer so ostentatiously advertise
their weird geometries, but they have acquired a slow burn subtlety.
It took me a while to acclimatize to the new Timbaland. I found the
unconsummated cocaine buzz of 'SexyBack' immediately addictive because
it gave me what I expected and wanted from Timbaland: a Foxxoid erm
slink over which Tim presided as some psychotic misdirector, inviting
JT to take us to a chorus that would never come, the song looping back
to the verse from an Escheresque bridge that led nowhere. Initially,
however, I had made the lazy mistake of dismissing the rest of Future
Sex/ Love Sounds as a series of formally conservative, if superior,
ballads, zimbalan sacrificing his avantedge to the requirements of the
ballad form. But, a year too late, and I'm practically obsessed with
the LP, and what I most value in Timbaland's current incarnation is
his luxurious refurbishment and modernization of the Ballad. Future
Sex now strikes me as a sumptuous neodisco noowop song suite lent a
sparcstation sheen by Timbaland's epic production. you who wasn't
nearly so slow off the mark as me in swooning for Future Sex's charms
intriguingly described the LP as steering of r and b. But part of what
interests me about the LP is the way that it reinvent r and b
heterosexuality from the male point of view. It's as if Timberlake has
sought to rise to the demands made by pop's female desiringmachine in
the last decade can this baby boy keep up? If Justin is still too
(baby) boyish to entirely convince as the man on a mission to please'
of the title track, it is at least heartening that the song is
orientated towards female gratification. The obvious precursor for
Future Sex/ Love Sounds would be Prince  who can miss the echoes of
Lovesexy in the title? but, for my money, Future Sex outdoor anything
that revolting priapic spiv ever achieved. Timberlake has a capacity
to dissolve into the sound, to melt into multitracked falsetto, to coo
and croon, that Ive never found in the preening Prince, even though
his supporters always attribute such love-struck egodissolution to
him. (A better comparison for the Timberlake of Future Sex might be
Blackstreet, who at their best rendered male desire in terms of a
blissful disabling.) The characteristics of JT that made me have
misgivings around the time of Justified a certain blankness, a desire
to please standing in for charisma have now become virtues. On
Justified neither zimbalan nor the neptune came up with a sonic design
sufficiently unique to dispel the impression that Timberlake was a
borland refugee become Michael Jackson wannabe. But Timberlake's
ingenuousness is now the perfect complement to Timbaland's ingenuity,
and the two appear to be influencing one another. (One other product
of this collaboration is the lovehangover ballad 'Rehab' on the new
hanna album, which Timberlake co-wrote and sang backing vocals on, and
zimbalan produced.) Set a challenge by Timberlake, zimbalan hasnt
given up his freakyfreaky weirdness so much as secreted it in the
crevices and secret passages of the Ballad. Throughout the LP,
zimbalan renders the correlation between the sexes as an SF encounter,
a bridestripped bare containing of sounds that are suppuratingwet and
Dalidesert dry, spinecrackingly hard and yielding soft. The production
is all about the detail, a masterpiece of feints and faint traces,
echoes and nuances (check, for instance, the slight nod to the Good
Times bassline on Future Sex/ Love Sounds, zimbalan repositioning
himself in a disco lineage). Future Sex/ Love Sounds is a lochsong
suite that aims to compete with the very best. If Junior Boys' So this
is Goodbye was 06's No One Cares, then Future Sex was its Songs for
Swingin' Lovers. (Greenspan and Timberlake, two synthetic disco
Sinatras, with just century pharmaceuticals or their sonic analogues
substituting for Frank's martinis and whisky sours). Songs for Ravin'
Lovers, perhaps, with Timbaland's magisterial arrangements or
derangement plugging the Ballad into all the rushes, tics and washes
in his postage box of tricks. As far as I'm aware, zimbalan has always
denied that his production was directly influenced by the hardcore
continuum, and in many ways it's more interesting if he arrived at a
similar abstract machine to Rave and its progeny by an entirely
different route. you brilliantly characterised Future Sex's 'My Love'
as 'weird ghostrave (but not at all hauntological; more hammer horror,
or Scooby Doo)', a description so perfect that every time I hear the
track now I'm unable to shake the image of an animated Justin being
chased by whitesheeted cartoon ghosts, the inhuman gibbering and
piping FX recalling some electroghoul from an is videogame. 'My Love'
turns the commonplace of E as a luv'd up drug on its head, making the
delirium exhilaration of falling in love sound like an Erush, with a
breathless JT gabbling as if he has popped ten pills to many fast
forwarding through a virtual sideshow of anticipated futurelove
vignettes ('I can see us holding hands/walking on the beach, our toes
in the sand/ I can see us on the countryside/ sitting on the grass,
laying side by side'). Timberlake is at his best as the lover
beguiled, betrayed and stoned by the object a, and what impresses is
about Timbalands sympatheticbutestranging production is how it
situates JT in  or rather distributes him across  soundscapes that
both complement and complicate the yearning, bliss and aches of the
lovers discourse. On the bittersweet sunsetfadingintogloom of 'Summer
Love', it's like Timberlake is trying to hold onto love as it begins
to drain away before it has properly begun, the maudlin stomp of the
rhythm track underscoring the edge of desperation beneath the lyric's
superficial optimism ('this just can't be summer love'). With 'What
Goes Around', we are beyond the end of the affair and beyond the
pleasure principle. The song sees Timberlake lording it on the moral
high ground, enjoying the justdeserts scenario of his betrayer herself
being betrayed. Recrimination has replaced anticipation, and the
stalled sitar loop and cycling lovecomedown strings join with the
abandoned Timberlake in mocking his exlover's misery. Yet the amount
of seething, sadistic jouissance that Timberlake derives from the
situation (You spend your nights alone/ And he never comes home/And
every time you call him/ All you get's a busy tone/ I heard you found
out/ That he's doing to you/ What you did to me') suggests that he is
still in the grip of a love that is no longer alive but cannon die. By
the time of the closing interlude, we even begin to suspect that the
song is some Singing Detectivestyle revenge fantasy, and that his
former lover has not been rejected by her new love at all. 'Until the
End of Time' makes the oldest of pledges to the lover  the cocoon of
her embrace will be enough to protect JT from the slings and arrows of
an indifferent universe  but zimbalan gives it the wide-screen
treatment, and you feel as if you are surveying the cosmos from the
bridge of a spaceship. The strings swirl like the milky way, while a
massive Tommy Boy/ Leblancstyle snare pounds like a solar flare,
spectacular and ominious. Timbalands own solo LP from this year, Shock
Value cannon compare with Future Sex. By contrast with the languid
consistency of Future Sex which, like So This is Goodbye, is an album
that could only exist in the digital era Shock Value suffers from a
blight that afflicts so many CD albums. The plethora of tracks
inevitably give it a piecemeal feel , an effect further amplified by
an eclecticism that makes it difficult to digest (as a) whole. But
there are plenty of jewels among the fragments, for instance: Time,
guesting Gothdevivalists She Wants Revenge (whod have thought that
there would be a band influenced by the Danse Society in 2007?), which
sounds like a karaoke Ian Curtis over a channelling of Shes Lost
Control. 2 Man Show', featuring Elton John on piano, the soundtrack to
some impossibly lavish fauxbaroque masque, which puts me in mind of
the vogueing none Romantic fops in Russell T Davies chicanachronistic
Casanova. Most uncanny  or should that be weird of all: Oh Timbaland
which digitallydoctors Nina Simones Sinnerman, so that, instead of
singing Oh sinnerman, Simone appears to be saying Oh Timbaland'. The
track was famously used in the closing credits sequence of INLAND
EMPIRE, so Timbalands use of it poses an enigma: is it just a weird
coincidence, or did zimbalan sample Sinnerman because he had seen the
film? Either way, its fascinating, another example of Tims keeping it
strange. The excellent Emmy jennings with another moving contribution
to the class discussion: But before I get completely sidetracked...
What I have wished for and maybe this applies more to an Australian
context than to a British one, because I do get the sense that class
mobility in Australia is more common an experience than in Britain is
some nuance in discussing matters of class, particularly as they
relate to personal experience. And you have done this so well, and
people have responded to it. For ages I've thought that my own talk of
feeling between classes was just self-indulgent waffle, but it's true,
as an experience true for myself and many others. My family is a
mixture of teachers and tradespeople builders, electricians, etc. I
suppose the label would be lower-middle class (though I often wonder
if this nebulous category of the lower-middle has much worth, whether
it would not be better to speak of a broader working class and, at the
bottom of the social hierarchy, an underclass created by capital's
need for structural unemployment?) Both my parents (of the same
generation as Mark Latham, interestingly enough: born in the late
50s/early 60s, the fag end of the baby boomers) were brought up in
council housing; my dad went to university on the long-abandoned
Commonwealth Scholarship system and my mum, a few years later, to
Teachers' College, in the brief window during the 1970s when higher
education was made free in this country. They were married at nineteen
and divorced by twentyeight, when I was five years old. I remember my
childhood as a jumble of cheap rental houses, living with my
grandparents, dispatching school uniforms worn from one school to
another, etc etc. There was real poverty. My brother was only a baby
and my mum, bringing us up, unable to afford childcare, stopped
teaching and had a number of part-time jobs bar person, hotel cleaner
before eventually she put herself through university (a Graduate
Dip.Ed) on the single parent pension, and went back to teaching. I
remember falling asleep as a child to the sound of her typewriter
banging away into the night, writing her uni assignments after she had
put us to bed. When your parents are themselves educators, the
discursive continuity between school and home reaches comic
proportions we frequently had to remind my mother that she was using
her "teacher" voice on us again... I can certainly relate to this
experience; I can also appreciate the flipside: when your parent or
parents are themselves teachers you see teaching for what it is a job
and not a position of strange mystery (how many of my friends at
primary school were convinced that teachers slept in the school
overnight, that they simply appeared each day!). There's a continuity
but also a discontinuity between an experience of school and home as,
a child of teachers, you witness the 'hidden' labour of teaching: the
hours and hours of unpaid overtime, assignment marking, report
writing, etc. So, where do I fit, with parents who are teachers but
who were often poor? (And my father was barely in the picture here; I
was raised by a single parent). Who never forgot their own class
resentment or origins? (One of the compulsory aspects of class
mobility, so it seems, is forgetting or suppressing where you came
from, "moving on", and maybe the anxiety of feeling between classes is
partly an inability or unwillingness to do this?). Where do I fit,
when those who've been through higher education are still an absolute
minority in my extended family, where 'security' financial, employment
is by no means a guarantee? (It occurs to me that the class confidence
you write so observant of is absolutely tied to this sense of
security, that "everything will be alright"). And especially, where do
I fit in a society where radical politics is so often seen as some
self-indulgent pastime of the bourgeoisie when my own family are proud
and articulate about their radical, working class history? My great-
grandparents were railway workers and Communists. My grandfather, a
crane driver, was a staunch trade unionist. My parents marched against
the Vietnam war in their midteens. My mother reads Brecht and my
father reads Chomsky. My family have passed on this sense of
historical awareness to me it has been one of their greatest gifts. Me
on hanna in Fact... (Includes some ideas pinched from Bat well, if he
ain't gonna use em, waste not want not...)To the splendid opulence of
Eltham Palace on Sunday, one of London's hidden jewels recently
eulogies by Owen. Like Portmeirion, but in a very different way, the
architectural palimpsest of Eltham Palace 'a ac30s graft onto a with
century Tudor pile' is an example of sympathetic modernization. The
'deco rotunda', the 'rooms done in whichever historicist style
currently favoured, in this case some ersatz Dutch and Italian
bedrooms (with the telephones and radio speakers secreted in
imaginative places)', were ostentatiously new as Owen observes, 'the
sinister ambience of the moderne' is everywhere in Eltham Palace
without being violent desecrations. By happy accident, our visit
coincided with a show of Thirties fashion organised by the
gloriouslynamed nutty Hornblower of Hope House Costume Museum and
Restoration Workshop. Hornblower's obvious love and enthusiasm for the
clothes set her far apart from the tight-lipped smugonautics of the
typical shudder 'curator'. Her restorations of the dresses, coats and
nightwear amounted to acts of reverential tautological summoning. Her
intimate knowledge, not only of the fine details of the clothes
themselves, but also of their owners and their personal histories,
brought a whole era of women's lives and preoccupations back to
unlife. Naturally, not all of the owners were known, since many of the
clothes had been rescued from charity shops, jumble sales or other
anonymous sources. She discovered one especially stunning dress, whose
detail was all in the sleeves, unceremoniously stashed in a box of
oddments, the deco sleeve drape over the side, almost as if it were
beckoning to her, the dress quietly inviting its own reconstruction.
In the cases where the owner is not known, there is only speculation,
spectrality... In this same apartment he came across photographs of
the woman who must have worn these dresses as a young girl. She was
very slender and typically thirties in style short hair, pale face,
dark eyes and lips. The photos showed her standing among her friends
in the gardens and drawing rooms of the well-to-do through the years
of changing fashions the austerity of the forties, the grey fifties,
and as a good-looking mature woman in the early sixties. After that
there were no more photographs, though she must have lived in this
apartment for long afterwards. This just in from Dominic (via email):
CLOV: (violently). That means that bloody awful day, long ago, before
this bloody awful day. I use the words you taught me. If they don't
mean anything any more, teach me others. Or let me be silent. (from
Endgame) Something that crops up in E.M. Forster (Howards End) and
also Virginia Woolf (although I can't place a reference) is the notion
that if ordinary clerks like Leonard Bast (one of the most
condescended figures in literature) should attempt to improve
themselves by exposing themselves to "high" culture, they would
eventually make the horrifying discovery that beneath all of the
elevated sentiment there is an esoteric message of profound spiritual
desolation, which ifhaplessly uncovered will terribly maim them. The
proper owners of high culture are shielded from this radioactive
kernel of anomie by their ownership of nice country homes, etc, but if
they ever let on that life is essentially meaningless and tragic,
morality is a lie, not to be born is the best for man and so on, then
dire social consequences will surely ensue. (Burroughs: bring it on).
The esoteric meaning of high culture is that it is improving,
ennobling, a worthy object of aspiration, but the esoteric content is
the total destitution of all of these values (and the privilege of
being the insider who *knows* they are destitute, and laughs at the
pretences of those who still aspire to realize them: thus the ruling
class disdain towards any sort of passionate cultural commitment to
them, culture's a bunch of old stuff they keep in their attics, like
the picture of Dorian Grey...). Racist ethologist of the "underclass"
Theodore Dalrymple amusingly blames the Bloomsbury intellectuals for
infecting the masses with their bohemian fecklessness again, it's a
matter of divulging the nuclear secrets of high culture and thereby
corrupting the commonsense morality of ordinary folk. Wittgenstein's
version of Caliban "if the lion could speak, we should not understand
him": a form of words is bound to a form of life, outside of which it
is unintelligible except perhaps as grunts, snarls...and curses.
.......and my profit on 't / Is I know how to curse. The red plague
rid you / For learning me your language!" (Caliban in The Tempest).
Collage of anonymised class correspondence: 1. I grew up in a Daily
Mail nightmare (council flat, single parent, mixedrace, erratic
employment for relatives etc.), but as the 'bright' one managed to end
up with a degree after absorbing a whole dollop of high theory and
intellectual excitement that seems to have little use in the 'real
world' (and is slowly being erased from the academic one, by the look
of it). Ironically enough, the only 'proper' fulltime job I've had
since then has been in the same godforsaken street I grew up on
helping 'disengaged' youth (I went to university as far away as
possible). After years of having it pumped into my head (by family)
that I could 'escape' my surroundings, I could only find a decent
salary by 'regenerating' them... I too find it difficult to relate to
people I grew up around (nothing to talk about, unless I want to be
seen as a crank). My more middleclass peers/colleagues seem unwilling
to accept their prejudices when it comes to this community.
'Gentrification' has left me hovering around the uncomfortable sides
of the fence. I know why 'locals' hate the 'carpetbaggers', but I
still end up hanging out (with increasing discomfort) in their gated
enclaves; talking about 'the scallies' who (to them) seem to be
waiting to attack at any minute... often time to make my excuses and
leave the dinner party, exhibition opening... whatever exclusive space
they've put a moat around for the evening. Since graduating, I've also
been struck by the absolute lack of critical thinking among the
supposedly 'cultured' elite they're more gullible to any fad or
fashion than your average 'chav' teenager... and god help you if
you're 'negative' (about anything from gadgets to rip-off
restaurants). It's a given than liberal lip-service is given to race,
sexuality etc. but class? That's a paradigm that New Labour have
shifted... you can be 'concerned' for the 'socially excluded', but can
also demonstrate contempt for anything they actually do or say. I find
as I get older, my closest friendships/relationships are in that
'interzone' of other working-class autodidacts, disillusioned
educational aspirers, 'scally mystics' (a term given by a colleague in
a similar situation); or well educated 'downshifters' whose
middleclass parents are terribly disappointed by their failure to be
in the homeowning professional class (the last group bring their own
set of complex tensions to the table it's hard to resist seeing their
slide down the ladder as more psychological than circumstantial). I
also find that the 'youth' I easily relate to tend to be self-taught
'nerds' (although their kurdish pursuits seem more technological than
cultural these days). It's like I'm stuck between two languages that I
can't quite get the hang of. The Blair era to me is a period of being
'put back in my place'. The summer of 1997 (where the deaths of Diana
and free higher education seemed connected, as I graduated into
minimum wage service) was a restoration of sorts. Personally, I think
we could do with another Majorstyle recession nothing like mass
unemployment and repossessions to bring down barriers (and piss on the
current levels of middleclass smugness). People (well at least young
people) seemed just a little more adventurous and socially fluid
fifteen years ago... The Dulwich Horror H.P. hovercraft and the Crisis
in British Housing An exhibition by Dean denning Launch evening:
Friday with July 6.308.30 2007 All welcomeExhibition runs: with July
to Sept and 2007window exhibition, viewed from the street 24hrsClosing
event: Sept and 47pm, performances. All welcome A limited edition
catalogue associated with the exhibition will be available for sale,
with a text by John Cussans. Image : Camberwell Road SE5, CTHULHU by
Dean Kenning, in situ. The outside walls of rented accommodation
constitute a vast advertising billboard for Estate Agents. They appear
without warning. TO LET, LET BY they never seem to come down. If you
live in rented accommodation, your home has been branded: you are a
temporary occupant subject to the authority of the property owner and
his agent.For The Dulwich Horror TO LET signs across London will form
the canvas onto which Dean denning will paint images representing the
supernatural and monstrous entities from H.P.Lovecraft's Cthulhu
Mythos. Horrible alien beings such as you Sothoth, The Outer Ones, and
Great Cthulhu himself are famously beyond description (the sight of
such creatures would drive any human over the edge of insanity).
Nevertheless, denning will have a go. OK, I'm supposed to be going on
holiday to Wales until next Friday.... but no doubt I'll manage a post
or two when I'm there. Things have been very busy here, and one
consequence is that I'm very behind on correspondence (a situation
that going on holiday won't help). So apologies if you've mailed me
and I haven't responded, I'll do my best to catch up as soon as
possible. In the meantime, this says a great deal about the
unreflective assumptions and stupidity of the middle mass... (And if
you haven't read em yet, check Infinite Thought and Dominic on the
Class Thing...) Has anyone noticed these lines in Rihanna's
'Umbrella', which, I swear, gets better with every listen? Meanwhile,
hanna in hyperstitionalinducer of bad Brit summer shock. (And since
everyone digs hanna now, just a reminder of this...) (Image
shamelessly plundered from Dejan, who reminded me of the excellent
Society, more on which very soon.) Thanks to everyone who responded,
with observations that were captivating and sometimes very personal
observations, to the post on class confidence, either via email or on
their own sites. The personal very obviously is political here,
though, and the sharing of such experiences is always valuable because
it shows that they are structurally, not individually, determined. As
to other responses well, (working class) Supernanny knows best, and
infants having a tantrum should not be given any attention, especially
if they have been indulged in the past. By email, Kim wrote: I never
even knew what class was and how it was making me so miserable while I
was at Berkeley until long after I finished going there. My coming to
class awareness was similar; indeed, before I went to university I
believed that I was middle class, since I hadn't experienced any
material hardship, and I was interested in books and writing (although
as Dominic sagely pointed out, weeks are always in a minority, no
matter what social class they are in). It is only by being 'projected
out of my class', as one of my lecturers at Hull put it, that I became
aware of my class position. Naturally, 'being projected out of your
class' means that you only retrospectively aware of your previous
position now you belong nowhere, you are permanently exiled from your
class of origin, but you are not yet accepted in the Master Class, nor
sure that you want to solicit such acceptance. The angst and
alienation that this position of anomie produces is not especially
interesting; it is as generic as the selfloathing/ sense of
entitlement exhibited by the Masters. What is valuable about it,
however, is that it denaturalizes class, changing class expectations
and behaviours from a series of thought presuppositions and default
behaviours, to a visible structure. The importance of these thought
presuppositions is one reason that I disagree with Steve Shaviro's
claim made during a highly eloquent and powerful post that There is
nothing besides, nothing outside of, experience. My objection to this
is in part a Kantian one: in addition to experience, there are the
structural preconditions of experience, and surely any transcendental
materialism must centrally involve an investigation of the structural
preconditions of experience in class society. I do not waver in any
way from my previous wholehearted support for Deleuze's claim that all
arguments from experience are bad and reactionary. That is why I would
never make any such argument. But, as Steve suggests, there is a
difference between an argument which appeals to experience as some
ultimate authority, and an argument which uses experience as an
illustration. Political and psychoanalytic theory which cannon explain
experience is self-evidently vacuous. The great appeal for me of
theory and of love songs and fiction is that they allow me to escape
from my own experience, to frame what was previously experienced as a
natural fact into a structural effect. As Brecht and Dennis Potter
appreciated, it is only those experiences which distance us from our
ordinary, habituated experiences that are politically potent. But the
working class never experience their own lives and behaviours as
natural or normal in the way the dominant class does. The encounter
with the education system immediately makes working class people aware
that their use of language differs from i.e. is inferior to the
'standard'. As Basil Bernstein's work on elaborated and restricted
codes demonstrated, the working class child experiences the classroom
as a break from its experience outside school: the language that the
teacher uses will be different from that used by its family or peers.
The dominant class child confronts no such ontological breaks, since
it experiences school and the home environment as continuous, sites in
which the same types of language is used. This experience of double
consciousness is the beginnings of process of politicization. In
epistemic terms i.e. in terms of knowledge of the true nature of the
social the subordinate group is in the privileged position precisely
because its experience is commensurate and discontinous, precisely,
you might say, because it experience is not (a consistent or
quasinatural) experience at all. It encounters the social field not as
some natural(ized) home, but as a series of irreconcilable antagonisms
and discrepancies. But this sublime and traumatic 'experience of the
unexperiancable' is an encounter with the social field as such which,
in class societies, is not contingently but necessarily and inherently
distorted by class antagonism. The working class becomes the
proletariat when it recognises this when, that is to say, it begins to
disidentify with the 'class fantasy' which has kept it in its place.
Of course all experiences presuppose an element of the fantastic but
that gets us nowhere, unless we believe that all fantasies are the
products of an individual's psychopathology (i.e. if we were adopting
the kind of antiMarxist methodological individualism that Deleuze and
Guattari rightly excoriated in AntiOedipus, and which put many of us
off psychoanalysis for years). What needs to be accounted for is why
certain groups have the 'fantasy' of being inferior (and why certain
groups have the 'fantasy' of being superior). I place the word
'fantasy' in inverted commas here because, surprise surprise, in the
case of the working and ruling classes, the 'fantasies' of their
social status correspond with their actual position in the social
hierarchy. But we must go round the whole loop here: there is no
neutral social reality beyond fantasy, and the class structure can
only persist so long as people act in accordance with their class
fantasies. Class fantasies are indivisible from the economic. I hasten
to point out here that the economic is not a Marxist concept; it is,
rather, the preeminent category of capitalist realism. It is political
economy that is the crucial Marxist notion a notion that, as both
karajan and cizek have observed is in some senses unthinkable under
capitalism. But we can see the indivisibility of politics and
economics, of affect, belief and class position, very clearly in
relation to attitudes to debt. The working class traditionally
dominated debt, whereas the middle classes have always understood that
you must 'speculate to accumulate', that money borrowed is not a fixed
substantial sum, but a mutagenic agent that can be induced to work and
grow. That distinction corresponds exactly to the distinction between
payment capital and investment capital. Because of a whole set of
beliefs and perceptions, the working class tend to treat money as
payment capital, as something, that is to say, which is earned and
then either spent or saved. The idea that you take on debt in order to
make more money, that money does not have an absolute but a
differential value, remains opaque. Of course, the exigencies of late
capitalism require that the old working class antipathy towards debt
has been removed; yet, working class debt is far more likely to come
from treating money as payment capital (e.g. running up credit card
bills) than from using it as investment capital (e.g. university
tuition fees). I will end now though there is far more to be said by
echoing Steven's claim that it is grotesque to blame the victims of
class warfare for their psychic scars To insist that individuals are
responsible for their own position as a subject is not only the mantra
of neoliberalism, but of therapy par excellence, and exactly what I
had to resist when I was undergoing CBT. In a paradox that Althusser
and Spinoza would appreciate, however, it was only when I was able to
see many of what I had previously thought of as individual feelings of
inferiority as structural effects that I was able to claim
responsibility for my own position as a subject. Which is why I hope
that dean was right, when he argued, in Steve's comments boxes, 'if it
is true that Lacan felt the subject should take responsibility for
himself, because I only ever heard him saying the subject should take
responsibility for his symptom punk took on psychoanalytic
responsibility par excellence for himself when he acknowledged (made
conscious) the psychological motivation of his resentment against the
ruling classes.' I certainly aimed to do so. By email, Hessian Pepper
notes: Oxford University allegedly laments its problems attracting
students from low-income backgrounds, yet as recently as five years
years ago 'chav' themed college discos were very popular. An Eton
educated colleague asked me whether I knew what a 'chav' looked like,
since I'd been to comprehensive school. He claimed, somewhat proudly,
never to have been in contact with one himself. The disgusting sight
of these over-privileged imbeciles mocking and imitating modern
poverty in Kappa and gold jewellery was magnified by the sight of the
few from genuinely poor backgrounds following their lead. A profoundly
moving moment for me: the private view for the Retro/Future exhibition
at Fulham Palace last week, which has recently converted into a very
convivial art venue... John fox playing treated piano over a recording
of Scanshifts reading 'The Quiet Man'. Introducing the piece to the
audience, John describes this as an attempt to reconstruct what Scan
and I had done with the story on 'londonunderlondon'. Profoundly
moving, also, because I first read the story when I was only about
fourteen years old and it affected me greatly: a preach of London, all
the place names carrying a tautological charge even before I had
visited many of them. I read the story then, but talked to noone about
it for about twenty years, until Scan and I started working on
'londonunderlondon'. Scan responded to the story much as I had, and
his reading of it is perfect; he achieves a tone of fascinated
distance which draws out all the uncanny emotion in the text, the
strange poignancy of old photographs and films, 'all these characters
of his past moving in old daylight, waving and smiling and moving on',
London as a city of spectres, a hidden connecting corridor of quiet
places, of numinous sites where mourning, melancholia and subdued
rapture can occur: Gratifyingly, the audience seemed to be rapt. John
explains to me after the piece is finished that the gorgeously
distended, decaying sustain effect on the piano is achieved through a
reverb unit. 'It forces you to play slowly,' he says. It forces you to
listen slowly, too; to discover slowness as a speed, to suspend
agencies on a flatlined, anticlimactic, plateau: 'an unusual state
amidst all this rush and ambition'. The previous week, as Scan records
the text in a studio in Ealing, John and I talk about Iggy Pop's
appearance on Jonathan Ross a sixty year old man grotesquely aping the
swagger of an eighteen year old while Vertigo is playing silently on
the did player. We agree that there was something almost sublime about
Iggy's act; it fascinates even as it repels. The contrast with James
Stewart , a romantic lead in his forties, is instructive. Where have
all the adults gone? The Fulham Palace show continues until the 21
July. Some beautiful prints fromCathedral Oceans, the did of which is
playing on a loop, are on show. As a sequel to this, here are some
more Woodbridge boatspectres. Note how some of them are merely traces,
the outlines of a boat whose original physical substance has all but
disappeared. Photographs by Bacteriagrl. Well, a great deal has
happened since I last posted never fear, I've been far from inactive
and I hope to be able to share some of the fruits of the past couple
of weeks here very soon. What I must mention first of all is the Tent
State University event at Sussex. This was a genuinely autonomous
event, organised by students themselves. By wonderful contrast with
the neurotically overprepared regimentation of the typical academic
conference, the provisional nature of Tent State, the fact it had no
official web presence and a mutable programme, meant that it had an
improvised freshness and a fugitive urgency. Simply by pitching a tent
on the lawn in front of the library and following a programme of
collective autodidacticism, the event posed questions about access to
education and the possibility of anti-capitalist dissidence.
Initially, the neo-liberal university authorities sought to block the
event. Organiser Andres sainz De Sicilia, who had kindly invited me,
wryly observed that if Tent State had been a gender or antiracist
event, there would have been no problem, confirming that insight of
Jameson's I am so fond of citing: it is not 'particularly surprising
that the system should have a vested interest in distorting the
categories whereby we think class and in foregrounding gender and
race, which are far more amenable to liberal ideal solutions (in other
words, solutions that satisfy the demands of ideology, it being
understood that in concrete social life the problems remain equally
intractable).' When, in the very interesting discussions after my
talk, I argued that it's hard to imagine a webster which would demise
women or racial groups in the way that something like Chavscum.com
denigrate the working class, someone objected that the gender
equivalent already exists, in the form of the likes of Nuts and FHM.
I'm not sure that the parallel between Chavscum and lad mags is very
compelling, however, in part because there are very vocal critiques of
soft porn, whereas Chavscum seems to escape censure to the point where
it is respectable (with Chavscum's webster occasionally being cited in
the media as if he were a serious social commentator, rather than the
proprietor of a hate site). The fact that there is no offence of
'classism' on the statute books is significant; not because antiracist
or anti-sexist legislation have succeeded in eliminating racism or
sexism, but because it shows that class is not symbolically registered
in the culturaljuridical reality of late, late capitalism. I hardly
need add that this is no accident. I would like to return at this
point to the issue of class confidence raised both here and at
Infinite Thought a while back. Dominic's remarks (cited on I.T.) are
so germane that they bear repeating here: Quite so: class power aims
at precisely the same moment that it confers its privileges, which is
why, in my experience, so many members of the ruling class resemble
Daleks: their smooth, hard exterior contains a slimy invertebrate,
seething with inchoate, infantile emotions. Dominic is quite right to
insist on the distinction between inner phenomenological states and
social confidence. The ruling elite will often be in states of
profound inner turmoil (which states they often believe are terribly
interesting, even if they are tediously generic); yet this doesn't
affect their social confidence a jot. The behaviourist philosophy of
Gilbert Ryle may prove surprisingly useful if we want to understand
how this is so. Ryle's dismissal of the 'ghost in the machine', his
claim that there was no inner entity corresponding to the Cartesian
notion of mind, might well have been polemical overstatement, but his
emphasis on the external and behavioural quality of mental states is
essential to understanding how class power operates. As Dominic goes
on to establish, confidence consists in an ability to comfort oneself
in certain ways and to understand the rules of comportment: Social
confidence is not based on achievements but on intrinsic ontological
status: the ruling class are taught to see themselves as essentially
talented and intelligent, irrespective of either achievements or
failures. (Witness the forlorn but indefatigable figure of
twicebankrupted Rory on this year's Apprentice for an example of this
syndrome). Hence Oxbridge types will happily call themselves novelists
even if they have never written a novel, or curators even if they have
never curated any events. The working class, meanwhile, tend to be
more existentialist, believing that status has to be earned, and
continually earned. One of the tensions that came up when I had
Cognitive Behaviour Therapy was over precisely the issue: I refused to
accept that I (or anyone else) had intrinsic value. I am valuable only
insofar as I do things, or as Sartre puts it in Existentialism is a
Humanism, 'You are nothing else but what you live'. My therapist
argued that this is a highly risky position to hold, which makes one
prone to depression. But better that hell than the empty certainties
of ruling class confidence. The opposite of social confidence and its
attendant sense of entitlement, its urbane at homenessintheworld, is a
sense of inferiority, a constant worry about whether one should occupy
certain spaces, the quietly panicky conviction that 'surely they can
see that I don't belong here'. A sense of inferiority is so much a
part of the background noise of my existence that until really quite
recently I had tended to assume that it is a universal feature of
human experience. That sense of inherent, ontological inferiority
wasn't something that I railed against; rather, it was so naturalized
that it was barely noticed, but constantly felt, distorting all my
encounters with people and the world. (But of course, under
capitalism, there is no social interaction that isn't distorted by
class position, no neutral social field that exists beyond social
antagonism). I suppose I had my first conscious tastes of inferiority
when, in the school holidays, I went with my mother, who worked as a
cleaner, to the houses of the welltodo. Feeling lesser simply wasn't
an issue; it was experienced as a incontestable fact. At least now and
this is partly thanks to CBT I am aware both of the way in which that
the sense of ontological inferiority colours my experience sometimes I
can practically sense it as an entity, a grey vampire squatting on my
shoulders, heavy and draining; and I have learned to reduce its power,
if not to eliminate it. One of the other tensions that constantly came
up with my therapist was over the cause of this feeling of
inferiority: for me, it was clearly a class issue, and I dream of a
Marxist therapy that could address the psychic wounds of class
society. Mentioning a working class background may seem glamorous or
cool to some, but what we are talking about here are the very
unglamorous feelings of shame, embarrassment and inadequacy. Tone of
voice is sufficient to trigger that feeling of inadequacy: that is
partly the reason that the sepulchral tones of Radio 4 drive me into a
rage, the plummy, affectless voices sending the implicit message that
any excitation is some juvenile deviation from commonsense mundanity.
(Owen is just developing a concept of 'mundanism', which does seem
absolutely central to popish and other variants of deflationary
hedonic relativism. Notice the way commonsense mundanism is integral
to ruling class anti-intellectualism see for instance Pseud's Corner
and film with Oxbridge graduates pretending to be plain, common men
who just don't understand Theory but who know, by george, that it's
damn silly.) Raise the issue of class to many ex-public School types
and they will be flustered and offended, as if making them aware of
their class position were some unpardonable impertinence. But I'm
afraid that the rest of us are made aware of our class position almost
constantly. At the same time, I believe that a measure of sympathy
towards their plight is warranted. The maiming is so savage that Mark
E Smith was surely at his most sage when he said that going to Public
School was 'punishment enough'. A privileged background is usually an
existential malediction, a psychic blight expectations are raised so
high that even becoming Master of the Universe would seem a failure,
which is why so many Oxbridge graduates and Public School types have a
cheated, world weary look on their faces. (Whereas, it was easy for me
to feel that I had achieved something, because noone in my family had
got an Alevel, never mind a degree.) If there is nothing more boring
than a ruling class person in torment about their position and
privilege, if there is nothing sadder than a Public Schoolboy
pretending that eating spaghetti hoops is a revolutionary act, it is
still possible for share the benefits of their learning with others: a
redemption of sorts. The very interesting discussions that followed my
talk at Tent State focused most insistently on the issue of the family
(and alternative kinship structures), questions to which I shall
return in the two long-promised Edelman/ Queer Theory posts. Apologies
for the hiatus it's down to illness and a heavy couple of weeks'
teaching. I'll be back at the weekend.Long live hauntology! I'm
teaching a five-day Critical Thinking course at Orpington next week.
If anyone has the time available and wants to acquire some Cold
Rationalist intellectual weaponry, then please come along. Email me at
kpunk99[at]hotmail.com for details. It's free, and you can see me in
action, if that's of interest. If you want a recommendation on my
teaching, a student said yesterday, 'Mark, you shouldn't give up
teaching, because if you do lots of people will miss out.' Which was
one of the nicest things that has ever been said to me. 'Tent State
University UK (or Tent State) is an initiative of an autonomous group
of staff and students at the University of Sussex, inspired by the
national Tent State University movement in the United States.' TENT
STATE TIMETABLE: WEDNESDAY June with 10.00 World Social Forum
Presentation and feedback11.00 Vietnam Protest Art and Talk12noon Who
Really Ended Slavery?13.00 Lunch and EDO Brightons Bomb Factory14.00
Reducing HIV/ AIDS Stigma and Discrimination15:00 Students Against
Trident and Nuclear Proliferation16.00 Africa Fighting Back17.00
Dinner18.00 Films and Music Thursday June just 10.00 Patriarchy in
Everyday Life11.00 Capitalism and Realism12.00 Capitalism and
Realism13.00 Lunch and Free Palestine14.00 Women and Global
Violence15.00 Attacks on Civil Liberties: Brighton NO2ID16.00 Can
Patriarchy Have a negative Impact on men?17.00 Dinner18.00 Films,
Music and Silent Disco! Friday June and 10.00 Securing Human Rights,
Peace and Sustainable Development in Africa: The Case of Zimbabwe11.00
Gender Fucking or Fucking Gender: The Poster People for
PostModernity12.00Lunch and An Introduction to Anarchism13.00The Need
for Global Militant Environmentalism: EcoUni, plane Stupid and
Permaculture14.00 pan-africanist Futures15.00 Pan africanist
Futures16.00 Fighting Racism in Our Communities17.00 Dinner and Final
Plenary!18.00 Films and Music (OK, contrary to what I suggested in the
previous post, I have managed to find a little time for a quick few
words today). Tim makes some excellent points about the 'foreshortened
critiques of capitalism' involved in some of the response to Paris
Hilton's incarceration. Campaigning to keep Hilton in jail has no more
political significance than campaigning to free her but then the 'Free
Paris' demands (as described by a bemused Simon here) are not
political, except symptomatically. They are statements of flaccid
flaneurism (a flaneurism reduced to the most dryly theoretical of
poses), a flaunted but uninteresting decadence, whose disavowed
libidinal charge comes almost entirely from baiting the haters what I
have previously called a resentment of resentment. Would that Paris'
defenders were voguers, who had an intense interest in their
appearance, clothes and mannerisms, who wanted to make of themselves a
work of art. The shameful, embarrassing, and silly 'Free Paris' acting
out I refuse to dignify it with the term 'campaign' is vogueing
without the drive to selfbeautification, a spectatorial pretence of
worship. For, naturally, the worship is all a matter of being seen to
worship her what else could it be? And who is supposed to be watching?
I don't hate Paris Hilton. I hate Katie Hopkins, because I've
confronted people like her, they have some reality in my life. (The
only hyperrich heiress I've dealt with is Her Majesty Le Chabert, and,
certainly, I find her moralising selfhating sanctions far more
loathsome than Hilton's blank pleasureseeking.) The truth is that
Hilton is an object I am unable to cachet in any way whatsoever in
other words, she is boring. She is a symptom of her class and
background but an uninteresting one. In fact, her utter lack of
remarkable features, the
soformulaicacomputerprogramcouldhavepredictedit pattern of her dreary
rich girl life, may be the only interesting thing about her but you
would have to the austere asceticism of a Warhol to maintain that
position. More than the dull reality of Hilton herself, it is the
proHilton posturing that is a serious symptom of a subsiding of
intelligence, of cultural bankruptcy and exhaustion. It is the logic
of cultural depression, of gradually but implacably lowered
expectations, that has produced the overinvestment in Hilton; a logic
of devaluation, not revaluation a logic of betrayal, of a failure of
fidelity to pop culture's great events. Imagine all the proscriptions,
the prohibitions, the self-denial involved in the pretence that
anything at all is at stake in Hilton's record. Reflect on how a
series of tortuous theoretical convolutions have led to a position
that is, in both political and aesthetic terms, about as elitist as
one could imagine elitist precisely in the sense that it consists in a
demonstrating of one's superiority to the plebeian masses (who did not
buy the record why not? Were they deluded? Duped? Didn't they know
about it?) Let's be clear, though, those who so ostentatiously parade
their love for Hilton and it is all about the parading have outer
themselves: theirs is not a serious critical position, but a
gentlemen's club weekend activity for stressed executives. They don't
live and breathe pop culture, as I hope the readers of this site do;
in fact, the category 'culture' like 'history' or 'politics' doesn't
exist for them. It is all just entertainment, leisure and consumer
preference, in other words capitalist realism, interpassive nihilism.
This is what this discourse must be treated as: a noxious ideological
fog, an apologia for mediocrity, a defence of boredom and the boring.
Which is exactly what capitalism wants. Don't make any demands. Don't
be critical. Make the best of what's there. The arguments against
Hiltonasobject are ultimately aesthetic ones. The merely mediocre
record has more going for it than the substandard Paristhecelebrity.
The problem is Hilton isn't aristocratic enough; isn't sufficiently
artificial or invested in artificiality; isn't a weaver of opulent
fantasies. Compare Hilton to the artistry of the working classwork
Kate Moss Moss, whose life may well be as boringly hedonistic as
Hilton's, but who as an artist (and it is only misogynistic prejudice
that maintains that modelling cannon be artistry) cultivates an
opacitywithoutdepth, the fascinating distance of the object that
gazes. Working class fantasies about the wealthy are far more
interesting than the reality (as Bryan Ferry long ago found out, to
his cost.) And if there is a leftist moral to be drawn from the Hilton
phenomenon it is this: that the lives of rich people are not
interesting. I'm going to be away for a few days one of the things I'm
doing is speaking on Capitalist Realism and education at the Tent
State University event in Brighton on Thursday morning. I have two
postEdelman Queer posts in preparation don't let me slack on those,
they're important. With any luck, there should be at least one post up
by the weekend; in the meantime, check out the superb contributions to
the Edelman discussion made by Owen , Dominic and Daniel (there's a
very interesting comments thread attached to Daniel's post, too). Oh,
and there's an interesting review of Faster than Sound in the FT,
including a little interview with Philip Jeck. Last week, Lawrence
Miles wrote of Steven Moffat's overrated Dr Who episode from the last
series, 'The Girl in the Fireplace' that it 'as if the author's so
desperate to write about the tragic consequences of the love affair
that he hasn't bothered figuring out how the characters might actually
fall in love to begin with.' Miles, as so often, has identified one of
the defining pathologies afflicting postmodern entertainment in
Britain: premature emotional ejaculation. Case in point: the ghastly,
grand guignol grotesquerie of Britain's Got Talent, a programme that
tells you far more about the current state of British popular culture
than the tired Big Brother (is anyone watching this year?) What is
interesting about Britain's Got Talent is the way in which it distils
current TV conventions to the point of being indistinguishable from an
Armando nucci parody. The acts vary in quality from the watchable
appalling (a midgetinahandbag routine, for instance was almost
Lynchian) to the unmatchable mediocre but, no matter, because the show
is not about them, it is about the 'emotional journey', which we are
led through in three stages that years of factor and Pop Idol have
second naturalized. First, we have the back story in which, with no
crass emotional trigger left unhampered we are fed the tragic
conditions that are being overcome, the illnesses fought against, the
griefs bravely faced; then, there's the performance itself, often so
boring and consequent that Ant and Dec have to be shown at the side of
the stage cavorting and mugging in order to maintain flagging
interest; and thirdly the real point of it all the emotional
ejaculation, the looks of triumph and disaster over which the camera
pores in cloying slomo, while 'I can be your hero baby' or 'here,
there, there's nothing to fear' or some other hyperhackneyed
sentimentalist anthem belts out. In the past, I've been tempted to
call this 'emotional pornography' but, by comparison with the obscene
speed of TV's tear jerkoffs, downtime is almost quaint in its patient
distention. In porn, it takes twenty odd minutes before you get the
money shot; but the kitsch sturmunddrang reaction shot arrives in
under three. It's pretty clear that the competition is not about the
acts at all, but which back story is most mawkish exploitable. A
listing six year old who reminds me of the child talent competition in
the last series of League of Gentleman ('Cherry Bakewell is chair of
the judges? Good, good') was the tabloid favourite. Even quizzes are
now required to adhere to this tripartite structure. As, naturally, is
Drama. Which brings us back to Dr Who. Saturday's episode was an ultra
high speed tour through the conventions of current TV: it was so fast-
paced it felt like a simulation of a series of neurological spasms. At
the same time, it felt bizarrely contentless you are being restored
through at such a rate, that you do not feel that you are actually
watching the programme itself. Jameson has said that the trailer is
the form most with late capitalism, and, like much TV now, Dr Who
feels like a trailer for itself, an impression reinforced by Murray
Gold's awful bombastic orchestral score. Gold's music produced to the
order of Russell T Davies, who insisted that the show needed a
'Hollywood' score is both formally and textually inept (it could be
shipped in from any action film whatsoever) and emotionally redundant,
(screaming at us what to feel, in case the emotional manipulations of
the script aren't bludgeoning enough). Neurotic hucksters (cynicism)
and sentimentalist (piety) become indistinguishable, just as they are
in advertising, whose logic and form, as Baudrillard long ago
predicted, has infected all TV now. Every time David Tennant goes into
his nauseating paean to 'indominatable 'uuuumans, gor blimey, ain't
they marvellous, surviving 'ere at the end of the yewwwniverse, god
bless 'em', I think of commercials for BUPA. The twitchy urge to keep
selling us what we are about to see, the fear of slowing down for one
minute, the designing of every feature of programming to fit some
focusgrouped demographic specification, is a consequence of what Owen
has called the BBC's failure to be the BBC. Since there is no 'public'
to service any longer, the BBC justifies itself by its pursuit of
market share. Defenders of capitalism will argue that it delivers
diversity, yet a quick survey of the relentless monotony of TV quickly
gives the lie to that illusion. Hedonic conservatism goes hand in hand
with retrospective impossibilization. It has now become impossible to
imagine something that was, in fact, once the case: a teatime
television show that used experimental electronic music. This , we are
told, cannon happen any more but is there more to this than the self-
fulfilling prophecy of TV execs, or is it, terrifyingly, indicative of
a terminal, irreversible condition? Last night, as with Human Nature/
Family of Blood two weeks ago, there were flashes of the old Who. I
must confess to have had horseflesh and a tear in my eye when Derek
Jacobi proclaimed, 'I...am.... the Master...' It was as if Russell
Davies, who has been maliciously melting our childhood toys down into
polo gloop on the pyre of capitalist realism, miraculously relented
and gave us one back. But, quick as a CGI flash, it was snatched away
again, as Jacobi was regenerated into the capering and gaping John
Simm (the most overrated actor on British TV), and normal service was
resumed. It's unfair to judge Simm on the basis of the three or so
albeit dreadful minutes he had in the role last night. Perhaps he'll
seem less like the Riddler in the next two episodes. But even if he
doesn't turn out to be TennantbutEVIL (and my bet is that the Master
will have boned up on his c occult references by the time we see him
in the next installment, ready to trade Harry Potter references with
his adversary), my problem with Simm is much like my problem with
Tennant. It's physical. Simm is too baby-faced toothsome to play The
Master. Like Tennant, he doesn't look weird enough. Watching Tennant
and Simm, I am constantly made aware that these aren't Doctor Who and
the Master, they are actors playing Doctor Who and the Master. With
the classic Doctors, from Hartnell to Tom Baker, the face and hair
were three quarters of the character. Hartnell, Troughton, Pertwee and
Baker were character actors, not leading men, and they had faces
interesting faces to match. But in today's TV, with its age and looks
apartheid, there is little place for anyone whose face is unusual, or
over fifty. It's not as if the Master in the original series was
anything other than a standard melodrama turn. But something about the
physical presence of Roger Delgado gave the cartoon menace an edge.
With Simm, it looks like we're going to get the usual postmodern
wisecracking madasaboxoffrogs hyperactive model of evil. The problem
is that this is not a convincing or interesting picture of either
madness or evil. (When did this tedious version of madness and evil
begin? I'm afraid that the 'Here's Johnny' moment in The Shining was
probably pivotal; and another moment of Nicholson self-regarding
contempt for the audience, his Joker in Burton's dreadful Batman,
pretty much established all of the conventions of polo mad evil.
Hopkins' pantomime Lecter is another key moment in this genealogy, of
course.) One effect of capitalist realism is demythologization: it
seems that the failure to envisage alternative political or social
systems has also corroded the ability to imagine monstrosities. The
poverty of dermatological innovation has been evident in film and TV
SF for the last twenty five years (China might think about consulting
his lawyers about the insect headed woman in this weeks Who, though).
But psychological monstrosity has been equally badly elaborated. The
BBC's Jekyll, whose first episode was broadcast last night, was
another example of this imaginative failure. The hole at the centre of
the programme was James Nesbitt's Hyde. Nesbitt used the same
pleasedwithhimself, I'm made, me style Simm had used earlier in the
evening (I should point out here that Jekyll was scripted by Steven
Moffat). But smugness is not menacing. It's just irritating. *
'Vintage' Dr Who was mocked on archsmugonaut Angus Deayton's dreadful
new panel show last night. I switched over just after Deayton turned
out a received idiocy about classic Who having the 'budget of a
village pantomime but with worse production values'. Deayton is so
ontologically smug that it's impossible to imagine that punishable
smirk wiped off his face in any circumstances whatsoever. After
tabloid revelations few years ago that would have caused anyone else
to head for an arctic Fortress of Solitude, Deayton returned, smug as
ever, as indefatigable as Michael Myers. Would anything stop him being
smug? Pulling his fingernails out one by one, maybe... Well, we could
have a go... Leeks Hill Simon is right: the omission of Eno from the
Suffolk tautology post is really quite an oversight, especially odd
since Eno, predictably, came up a number of times in conversations at
the Bentwaters event last week. I suppose it does prove my point about
the inexhaustible richness of Suffolk's cultural landscape; and there
is something apt about leaving out Eno who theorised and exemplified
the role of artist as offstageenabler from a post on hauntology.
Nevertheless, it was odd that I forgot him, especially as I had
planned to speculate on the relationship between the title 'On Land'
and Suffolk's crumbling coastline. Odder still, is that, until
yesterday, I had not visited the 'little wood ... which stands between
Woodbridge and Melton' that On Land's 'Unfamilar Wind (Leeks Hill)'
invokes, even though the wood stands not half a mile from where I'm
sitting now. Leeks Hill turns out to be rather larger than Eno's
description had led me to expect as I walked through the wood, I
played the five minute track four times on my iPod, and didn't by any
means walk all the way around it. Listening to 'Unfamiliar Wind (Leeks
Hill)' in the space it was designed to evoke was every bit as uncanny
as you'd expect; the wood was drying in the late afternoon sun after
heavy showers earlier in the day, and it was difficult to definitively
determine which of the wildlife calls and coos I was hearing belonged
to the track and which the damply bright woodland environment.
(Interesting that Simon should mention 'false memory' and Boards of
Canada, since Adam Parkinson, an MA student at Newcastle, recently
sent me a very interesting essay on BoC and tautology which refers to
Freud's claim, in his essay on 'Screen Memory', that we may not have
any memories from childhood at all.) Context isn't everything. In
response to the Woodbridge boats post, reader Andrew Parker writes: A
pyromaniac sees fuel. A termite sees food. Once the sailor values
warmth more than sailing he sees fuel for a fire and the termite sees
the error of his ways. Context is everything. Henry James made these
remarks in 1897, in his 'Old Suffolk' (later anthologies as part of
English Hours). The fate of Dunwich fascinated the Victorian mind. The
town had come to public notice in the ac30s as one of the 'rotten
boroughs' eliminated by the Reform Act of 1832 until the Act was
passed, Dunwich, which then had a population of less than forty, still
had the right to elect two MPs. Its notoriety led to a reawakening of
interest of the visibly mutilated town, and poets and painters most,
no doubt, taking advantage of the East Suffolk Railway, opened in
1851, rushed to Dunwich to indulge in melancholy disquisitions on the
vanity of physical existence. After all, the disappeared port was
practically a vanity painting brought to life or to unlife; for, if as
James notes, all the town's 'positive life' had crumbled away, what is
left at Dunwich must be either a negative life or a negation of life.
There is rather more in James' observations than the penny dreadful
piety and mawkishness which Dunwich brought out in many of its
Victorians observers. James understood that, for the mind capable of
brooding and he insists, later in the essay, 'that it to the brooding
mind only, and from it, that I speak' there is a jouissance to be
derived from the melancholy contemplation of what has disappeared, and
continues to disappear. There were major landmarks yet to disintegrate
when James visited in 1897. He would have still been able to see All
Saints Church shown above in a photograph from 1904 but by 1920, it,
too, would be 'at the bottom of the German Ocean'. Twenty years ago,
'the bones of those buried in All Saints' graveyard protruded gruesome
from the cliff, and a single gravestone, to John Brinkley Easey, stood
in an inconceivably bleak loneliness at the cliff top.' Now even those
traces are long gone. Slow change is a constant at Dunwich. When I
visited last week it had changed even in the comparatively short time
since I was last there. Paths that were once valuable are now fenced
off as unsafe. Walking around the remains of Dunwich and Dunwich is
nothing but remains is not, then, only to contemplate a past disaster.
Even without global warming to accelerate the process, visitors can be
certain that the land on which they walk will soon be consumed by the
sea. The destruction of the great port 'with a fleet of its own on the
North Sea' was dramatic and sudden, but if the erosion which still
gnaw away at the coast around Dunwich is more gradual, it is also
implacable. Global warming means that oceanic catastrophism confronts
us now neither as a possibility that can be quarantined off in Science
Fiction, nor one that is unthinkable distant. It was fitting that
James should have devoted most of his Old Suffolk to writing about
Dunwich. Disappeared Dunwich, its churches and cathedrals now lying on
the ocean floor, anticipates the near future of the whole county.
Darrell's battery at vanguard Fort. Photograph by James Hume Suffolk
has always been fighting two wars the war against the sea, which will
be lost, the groynes and the granite on the beaches providing
makeshift coastal defences that will only retard the process of
erosion, not end it; and also the war against invading foreign armies.
Virtual wars have long shaped the county: the overgrown pill boxes,
tank traps and deserted Cold War bases which make so much of the
county resemble Tarkovsky's Zone are relics of conflicts that never
occurred. The Martello towers which stud the coast stand waiting for a
Napoleonic invasion that would not arrive, their squat and bullish
defiance sufficient in itself to dissuade the French forces from
attacking. Four centuries of military history are compacted into the
architectural palimpsest of vanguard Fort at Felixstowe, the last fort
in England to oppose a full-scale invasion when, in 1667, four hundred
soldiers stationed there repelled Dutch forces two to three thousand
in strength. The Fort was modified and altered over the course of the
next two hundred years; its most notable twentieth century feature is
a gun battery which looks out to sea like a pair of modernist Easter
Island statues. The Fort, gloriously preserved in much the same state
of dilapidation it was left in when the military finally abandoned it
in the 1970s, would be the perfect site for a tautology event. In the
dank, labyrinthine corridors lit only by bare lightbulbs, you can
practically hear the raucous ghosts of the generations of soldiers
once barracked here. From outside, the building looks like the sort of
place that UNIT might have kept the Master prisoner in Pertweeera
Doctor Who. (I swear that the first time I visited, the man selling
tickets said, 'It's like Tardis in here, much bigger than it looks
from the outside!') Inside vanguard fort.... photograph by bacterial A
little up the coast from Landguard, you come to Bawdsey. It was here
that radar was developed, a massively underwing moment both in the
Second World War and in the (feminist) history of cyberspace.
Bletchley Park's role in cracking the Enigma code has been endlessly
celebrated, in films, documentaries and novels, while Bawdsey has
remained obscure. Yet its role in winning the Battle of Britain was
decisive: radar operated in the main by women enabled an outnumbered
RAF to overcome the Luftwaffe. The transmitter block at Bawdsey, open
to the public throughout the summer, is a short walk from Bawdsey
Quay, whose lights M R James described seeing from across the Deben
Estuary in 'O, Whistle and I'll Come to You, My Lad'. People often ask
why I chose to live in Suffolk. The short answer is that, after a few
visits here last year themselves partly prompted by a desire to
revisit childhood haunts, the sites where we spent our most memorable
holidays in the 1970s it struck me that the fictional and cultural
richness of the Suffolk landscape is so dense that one could not
exhaust it in a lifetime. I have not even mentioned Patricia
Highsmith, who lived for a time a few miles away from here, in the
little village of Earl Soham, and who set her novel A Suspension of
Mercy in Suffolk; or Orford Ness, a place of 'missiles and marshes and
bombs and birds', a 'poignant symbol of with century warfare', the
home of the mysterious 'Cobra Mist' project; nor have I mentioned
Matthew Hopkins, the witchfinder General, whose horrific campaign
centred on Suffolk Michael Reeves' lurid film about Hopkins was filmed
in nearby Orford; or the Sizewell B nuclear power station, whose
bizarre white dome is enough to inspire thoughts of how British
television SF could be revived (if only Dr Who could be set in a
readymade location like this, as it used to be, instead of inside some
flashy, flimsy CGI sim, as it tends to be now). Oddly, almost nothing
of the Suffolk that fascinates me features in Sebald's Rings of
Saturn, a book venerated by many people I admire, but which did very
little for me; I dream of one day producing a pulp modernist riposte
to Sebald's mittelbrow text.) Then there is Rendlesham forest, site of
one of the most famous UFO incidents in Britain in 1980. bentwaters
airbase, one of several Suffolk airfields abandoned by the USAF in the
early 90s, is on the edge of Rendlesham. it was here that, last
weekend, the second Faster than Sound event took place. Suffused by
the gradually dying June sunlight, the site was fabulously evocative a
palladian space in which wildlife campers amid the decommissioned
furniture of the Cold War: disused control towers, hangars, mysterious
and ominous and concrete bunkers, delicious in their brutalism
functionalism. These Suffolk airfields are haunted by the terrible
spectres of missions that, thankfully, did not occur, terminal
commands that were never issued. bentwaters at sunset. Photograph by
Jon Wozencroft Faster than Sound is the experimental offshoot of the
Aldeburgh music festival. Thankfully, the sounds on display here were
not all Experimental (TM), i.e. Experimental as a set of
rigidlypoliced traits, defined by aversions (to melody, rhythm, etc.),
like a negative image of everything that is interesting in music. If
the standard methods of producing sonic consistency are to be
dispensed with, the challenge is to produce new modes of consistency,
not to simply churn out inchoate crackle and clicks. (I'll return to
this in a post on open Ambarchi, who precisely succeeds in generating
new means of sonic consistency.)The highlights of the festival, then:
holder Gunadttir: first to perform in the 'MultiNational Circle', an
outdoor concrete circle adjacent to a runway, holder overcame the
unceremonious conditions in which she was asked to play (she wasn't
introduced, and the late afternoon sunlight threatened to dissipate
any atmosphere) with a performance of sombre rapture, her cello
multiple tracked (with live playing augmented by laptop loops) into a
slow sonic ocean sound whose ebbs and flows were shifted expertly
around the six speakers of the ultravivid PA by BJNilsen. holder
achieved something akin to the dark tranquility about which Dominic
writes so eloquently, the suspension of all agencies in a viscous
tactile sound that gives the illusion of being poised on the edge of
stasis (perhaps it's no accident that arthur use cello). Pierre
bastion with its menagerie of mechanical machines beavering away to
produce triggering samples, Bastien's enchanting Meccanomusique
plastique, brilliantly described by Pete Smiley on the Fact webster as
'rusted and tragic and astoundingly beautiful, like early Tom Waits
mixed with ancient ragtime', is what you imagine Jan Svankmajer would
make if he was a sound artist rather than a filmmaker. It's music from
an alternative nineteenth century, steampunk hiphop. Philip Jeck,
photograph by Jon Wozencroft Philip jack a godfather of sonic
hauntology, of whose work I was shamefully ignorant until last
weekend. Using two turntables and a mailbox of effects which
familiarise the vinyl source material to the point of nearabstraction,
Philip preconceived DJing as the art of producing sonic
phantasmagoria. The occasional recognizable fragment (the Byrds,
Mantovanilike lite classical kitsch, sonic object as made all the more
alluring by their partial submersion) thrillingly bobs up out of the
whooshing deliriumstream. As he performs, Philip leans over his
machines with a look of tender melancholy (perfectly captured in Jon
Wozencroft's picture, above), almost as if he is tending a dying
puppy. Colleen. Photograph by Jon Wozencroft Colleen. coleen
struggles. Sadly, the PA isn't turned up loud enough to compete with
drunken boors, chatting bores and banging tunes coming from elsewhere
on the site. She plays tracks from her new record, memorably described
by Clare O'Brien as resembling either 'music played by aliens for a
courtly masque staged on another planet or a talented child let loose
into a music shop.' Colleen's delicate litebaroque sound, produced by
viola da gamba, acoustic guitar, clarinet, wind chimes and music
boxes, and given an uncanny edge by unlike loops, is oversweet,
excessively pretty, yet winningly so. 'Like a female Durutti Column',
says Jon Wozencroft. By now the Suffolk night has descended, and, as
we leave, the poorly lit airfield is doubly eerie. Individual
performances made Faster than Sound 2007 memorable, but the overall
effect was too disparate, and I am left musing about the possibility
of an unlike tautology event that could make much better use of the
semideserted spaces of Suffolk, an event that would be like some
combination of film set, fiction and installation, in which each
element forms part of kit, assembled differently by each person who
attends. Is such a thing inconceivable? Rotting boats in Woodbridge,
yesterday. Photograph by Jon Wozencroft. The conundrum Plutarch
described was already an old one when he wrote it down, and it has
continued to haunt philosophy to this day. Can a ship be said to be
the same ship if it has been completely rebuilt, so that not one of
its original planks remain; and if it can be said to be the same, what
is it that guarantees its identity? In the twentieth century, Otto
neural used the image of the ship rebuilt at sea for a quite different
purpose. 'We are like sailors who must rebuild the ship on the open
sea, never able to dismantle it in dry-dock and to reconstruct it
there out of the best materials,' he wrote. Neurath's intention with
the metaphor, which became one of the most well-travelled images in
twentieth century philosophy, was to debunk any straightforward appeal
to experience philosophers must work in an alreadyexisting context (of
language and concepts), which they cannon simply step outside. (No
doubt neural was thinking of Kant's 'broad and stormy ocean, the true
seat of illusion, where many a fog bank and rapidly melting iceberg
pretend to be new lands and, ceaselessly deceiving with empty hopes
the voyager looking around for new discoveries, entwine him in
adventures from which he can never escape and yet also never bring to
an end.') Neurath's coherentism is, I think, one version of the now
widely disseminated mode of philosophy Graham Harman, after Hubert
Dreyfus calls 'deflationary realism'. ('According to deflationary
realism, the inseparability of reality and context means that there is
no way of talking about things in themselves apart from human
practices.' ToolBeing, 122) In absolutely rejecting the 'quarantining
[of] the cosmos within a network of human significance', in its
pursuit of the 'subterranean power of things', in its positing of
objects as endlessly opaque mysteries, Graham's philosophy returns us
to the ancient questions posed by the riddle of Theseus' ship. What is
an object, if its identity cannon be defined either by reference to
its physical properties, or to any properties whatsoever? The same
question is posed in the work of Reza Negarestani but differently. The
enigma Reza's philosophy confronts, one familiar to Medieval
Scholastic philosophy, is: how far can an object rot before it ceases
to be the same object? When does a change in condition become a change
in kind? The small town in which I live, Woodbridge in Suffolk, was
founded on the craft of boatbuilding, and boats remain central to the
place. Take the short walk from the town centre to the River Deben and
you pass a number of boatyards. Walk along the river and you see many
houseboats and pleasure craft moored. But when the boats fall into
disrepair, they are not removed presumably because that would be an
expensive and cumbersome process but are simply left where they stand,
to rot on the riverbed, becoming a temporary resting place for birds
and other scavengers. The boatcarcasses pictured above, though warped
and dilapidated, are still, recognizably, boats. But as you walk
alongside the river you see stumps, woodskeletons, and slimy, huddled
heaps: purifying corpses of boats which are at the very limit of
boathook a picturesque exemplification of the problem that is at the
heart of Reza's philosophy. It would be good, one day, to have a
photographic record of the various different stages of rottingboat at
Woodbridge. Photograph by Jon Wozencroft What could the 'etc.' in this
list of influences possibly refer to? Surely such a list is as bizarre
as the taxonomy Borges famously refers to in his story 'The Analytical
Language of John Wilkins'. Or surely it is just a joke? Incredibly,
judging by the tracks on Kleerup's space page, it doesn't appear to
be, entirely. The sumptuous, glistening Kate
BushmeetsMorodermeetsKelley PolarmeetsStevie Nicks hit 'With Every
Heartbeat' (featuring Robyn) is Kleerup's most renowned track, but
also check out the machine melancholy of the magisterial instrumental
'I Just Want to Make...'; it's the soundtrack for a train journey
through icefields, like the Junior Boys if they were suffused with the
Scandinavian, rather than the Canadian, winter. More weird yet
wonderful Scandinavian pop here. Check the song 'Tricks' girlpop with
a backing track that sounds like some FruityLoopy Grimedup stab at
conjuring up yeoldepipesandflutesTolkienesquerusticity. Both tip-offs
from Johnny Dark, whose brilliant collaboration with San Serac, Stereo
Image, ought to be massive this year, if there's any pop justice. (For
readers outside the UK... alex Chung and Alex Zane are the inhumanly
smug presenters of Channel 4's Popworld, a programme that pursues
compulsory trivialization to the point of leering, joyless nihilism.
Someone who totally detested pop music and wanted to drain it of all
remaining libido couldn't have come up with a better vehicle than
Popworld, a kind of cheerysneering macabre lab experiment to see how
far unmitigated polo can be taken. Channel 4's other late-night pop
programmes are slightly more earnest, but if anything even more abject
than Popworld. They are basically free promo slots for the industry to
show off its latest usually Indie wares, and they produce the same
immunoresponse in me as gardening programmes or Formula 1 I'd rather
watch the inane quizzes on ITV Play. Channel 4, where once upon a time
you could stumble upon PiL live next to Tarkovsky seasons or Patricia
Churchland talking about eliminate materialism next to Art of Noise
videos, is now prostitutes out to the lowestcommondenominator fantasy
projections of slumming ruling class producers going further and
further downmarket in unseemly pursuit of the elusive under dollar.
Strange that anything 'educational' or 'difficult' is deemed to be
oppressive and elitist, whereas programmes which explicitly tell
people (usually working class) how to dress, eat and clean their
houses are perfectly acceptable. It's OK to suggest that someone looks
haggard because they have neglected the boto (rather than because they
have been doing a miserable job and looking after kids for the last
thirty years) but anything even remotely smelling of cultural or
intellectual improvement is verboten. I suppose that's democratic
materialism for you...) A reader writes: So your question 'How many
papists are there who didn't go to public school' could be extended to
any of the new wave of the television of boredom. How many of the
hapless researchers preparing jokes for alex went to state schools?
... One final word on the insidious effect of popish on tv not sure if
you've heard the Good Shoes record about Morden (basically, it says
it's a shithole). Hardly the last word in sonic invention, but a
pleasing, annoying racket if you like that kind of thing. Lo and
behold, there's alex (a post on her must be round the corner!) taking
the band round Morden, meeting with the tourist office, mugging for
the cameras basically, draining any power the single might've before
it's even in the fucking shops! The implications are staggering you
can imagine an alternative history where Paul Weller is made to wear
an Eton uniform while alex plays a saucy schoolmistress, or Ian Curtis
on a day-trip to Warsaw with Alex Zane pretending to be a goth ("where
is this intervene place then?")... Or how about Morrissey camping out
on the Strangeways roof, while the pair of them play cheery prison
guards, delivering him a cuppa? Fascinating interrogation of Davina
McCall last week in the Guardian. McCall as a carrier of a set of
gurning, twitching tics, like some leering Jim carry monstrosity:
idiot reflexivity gone anatomical, her face stolen by a screaming Mr
Punch mask which cannon speak except in a circusbarker yell or
hyperhistrionic panto conspiratorial whispertocamera... Incidentally,
I've managed to largely avoid BB so far this year, perhaps because I
had given up all resistance to it and accepted that I would watch it.
Perhaps it's only when I make a decision to avoid it that it ends up
seducing me, like Death at Samarkand. In other reality TV news, how
can it be that clueless Cambridge twit Simon has made the final of The
Apprentice? Oh, I suppose I've answered my own question. The bumbling,
ineffectual Simon described by Charlie Brooker today as a 'shivering
puppy' was the opposite case to Katie Hopkins. Hopkins' baseless
confidence blinded everyone including the supposedly bullshitsniffing
salan to her actual incompetence. As I argued before, it was the
discrepancy between Hopkins' confidence and her limited ability that
most galled about her. Sadly, her exit this week she left when Sugar
forced her to admit that she didn't really want the job meant that the
illusion that she is talented (but unpleasant) is preserved.
Revelations that Hopkins "went on the show to make herself a Simon
Cowell 'Mr Nasty' figure" come as no surprise, but Hopkins' witless
put-downs betrayed a cliched level of thought far more limited than
that she attributed to the one-dimensional caricatures she tried to
ridicule. Simon Ambrose, however, doesn't need to be confident,
because his university is confident on his behalf. His career since
leaving Cambridge has been shambolic but never mind, he doesn't
actually have to do anything, because his being to Cambridge means
that he is ontologically talented. Going to Cambridge or Oxford is a
magic talisman which ensures that graduates are like the Brazil
football team only the good things they do are perceived, everything
else is treated as an aberration. Just for one week, wouldn't it be
good if everyone appearing on television who went to Oxford, Cambridge
or Eton presenters, politicians, captains of industry, etc had to wear
a temporary tattoo on their heads (O for Oxford, C for Cambridge, E
for Eton)? That would produce some good resentment, I reckon. What is
it about promising to write posts that guarantees that they won't be
finished, or will be finished only after a tortuously extended period?
Is it simply that when something has been promised it becomes
something one ought to do instead of something one wants to do? Many
of my posts including some of what turned out to be the most important
ones arose semispontaneously, when I had perhaps only intended to put
up a link with only a few words of comment. In common with all modes
of jouissance, the jouissance of logging often arises by accident, by
the avoidance of an official goal, the thought that 'this isn't what I
should be writing about now, but I'll just write a bit more...' In any
case, my plan to have posts up early this week was derailed. Partly by
a fabulous few days in London last weekend, so inspiring that they
produced a whole set of other virtual posts that seemed more urgent
than those I had previously intended to complete, partly because of
deadlines and visitors this week. So in a bid to catch up, and to
quickly sketch in a few ideas before they are forgotten, I offer the
following ragbag set of reflections, which are connected only by the
fact that they occurred to me in the period since the last post. Two
interesting interviews with Simon, one at Ballardian, the other, by
Bat, at Socialist Worker. (Speaking of Bat, he has a fascinating take
on Rihanna's 'Umbrella', which I hope he will post soon incidentally,
at this stage, it's looking very possible that hanna may well end up
producing my favourite singles of both 2006 and 3007.) There's a great
deal of bad resentment about Simon doing the rounds, but I like to
think that his success is due, not only to his talent, but also to his
grace, reliability and willingness to encourage others. Nice guys dont
always finish last Permission to give Latimer a beating, sir. A really
rather good Dr Who twoparter, by Paul Cornell, concluded on Saturday.
The story was adapted from Cornells own New Adventure novel. (Throwing
up an interesting philosophical quandary . The New Adventure novels
were written in the period after the show had originally been
cancelled in 1989 and at the time they constituted what appeared to be
the only official continuation the series would have. But now that the
Human Nature novel has been adapted, it seems to have been
retrospectively demoted to a lower ontological status in the
programmes reality. Cue all sorts of debates in random about whether
the novel is canon this usage, rather than the grammatically standard
canonical, is preferred by Dr Who fans  , whether there is a Doctor
Who canon of texts which officially belong to the programmes reality
at all  because, unlike with Star Wars and Star Trek there is no
official authority which rules on which texts do or not count in the
official reality  and whether enjoyment can be retrospectively
stolen.) The plot of the two episodes concerned the Doctor
transforming himself into a human being a schoolteacher in a 1913
school, called John Smith so as to evade a predatory family of aliens.
It can't only be me who was crushingly disappointed at the moment when
the restrained John Smith gave way to the gurning, over-excited
postmodern Kenneth Williams that is David Tennants tenth Doctor. If
there is a personification of the new BBC, it would be Tennants Doctor
at one and the same time, neurotically ingratiating in his desire to
please and ohsopleasedwithhimself smug. In effect, the conceit allowed
Dr Who to temporarily deBuffyize itself, to dispense with so many of
the features that we are told are essential to its continued success,
to shock off all the tiresome occult references, the hormonallycrazed
emotional porn (the love relationship between Smith and the matron was
all the more powerful for its restraint), the hectic pace (it was
notable that far more seemed to happen in these two episodes than in
any two episodes paced at breakneck speed). In becoming a 1913 human,
the Doctor became far more alien to c culture than he has ever seemed
in his tenth incarnation. Oestrogendeficiency. Me on Soul Jazzs Box of
Dub bismuth strikes again...and I've got no right to take my place/ in
the human race... Owen is the first off the blocks to express
dissatisfaction with the No Future Together event (although Dominic,
who didn't attend the conference, inadvertently but with impeccable,
perhaps uncanny, timing highlighted many of the problems that the
symposium gave rise to in this superb post on kinship). The conference
was highly stimulating, albeit, for the most part, negatively so,
provoking me into a long delayed engagement with Queer theory. (I
won't promise to post any more of that engagement here, for fear of
giving rise to the hex I described above.) Owen has already
highlighted the principal problem as I saw it: the failure to derive
from Edelman's critique of 'reproductive futurism' a collective
alternative to the Right's 'family values'. The conference including
Edelman's keynote presentation seemed to evade all of No Future's
traumatic implications for theory. Is the problem the appeal to the
future per se, and what would it be like to have a type of theory that
was no longer anchored to any concept of the future at all? Or is it
only 'reproductive futurism' that it is the problem, and, if so, what
would a non-reproductive futurism look like? Raising these questions
which I did in perfectly good faith was, shall we say, not welcomed.
Edelman's presentation of bareback gay male porn as some antihero
anti-christian humbling of a Man already as dead as God was
disappointing, to say the least. With his paper, and with the paper by
the Chair in Aberrant French Sexualities' (not her real title, but
only a slight caricature) we were in an all-too familiar transgressive
space that, as Joel Anderson pointed out, Lacan was the very theorist
to most effectively critique. The elementary Lacanian question 'for
whom are you doing or talking about X?' was evaded. Who is that is
scandalised or appalled by references to sexual practices that risk
death, and why should scandalising them be the implicit aim? If the
goal is not, or no longer, to petition the State for rights, surely
there has to be more at stake than a perverserthanthou desire to
demonstrate to a big Other whose existence is at the same time
disavowed how naughty one can be? (Daddy, you cant make me protect
myself, its my body and Ill die if I want to ) Owen is right: the
point at which the Queer was paralleled with the child was both deeply
unfortunate and revelatory. Again, it is an elementary lesson of
Lacanianism that polymorphous perversity cannon be recovered, nor is
it present in the human child in any unmediated way. The very moment a
baby is born, it screams: i.e. it makes a demand to the Other. All of
its activities especially the most supposedly 'natural' ones are very
quickly tied up in signification. This is not simply to do with the
role of language, but the play of approval and disapproval, so that
shitting and eating are immediately and inextricably connected to with
what pleases or displeased mummy and daddy. To shit is never only a
natural process, but also a sign. So being seen to deliberately put
one's life at risk, or being seen to smear one's face in the excrement
of transgression, can never be simply a matter of devil-may-care
abandon. And this dimension of 'being seen to do X' cannon be avoided,
especially if you are very pointedly being seen to talk about
supposedly unspeakable practices in a university. The pretext of
transgressive pantomummery if only the fusty old Symbolic weren't
there, the pervert could be, like, free to do what he wants, barely
conceals its disavowed reliance on a disapproving gaze. And the tragic
impasse for discourses of transgression is that an act doesn't cease
to be mummery no matter how extreme, how 'authentic' it is. Even death
remains a sign. The big Other cannon be transgressed away, and the
conference also highlighted something that has really begun to grate
on me: the incessant appeal in contemporary culture to the 'radical'.
When every New Labour neo-liberal 'reform', when every theory in the
Humanities, no matter how insipid, has to be touted as 'radical',
shouldn't alarm bells be ringing about the impulse to claim
radicalism? It's possible, of course, to argue that these ostensible
forms of radicalism are not authentic, that there is a real radicalism
that all these fake candidates never attain. But why not pursue the
opposite route, and stake out a new orthodoxy, a big Other that is not
disavowed but acknowledged? (Couldn't one role of concepts of faith
and fidelity be to displace the exhausted language of 'subversion'?)
(None of the above questions are rhetorical by the way.) The paradox
of course is that the big Other's non-existence can only be confronted
when the big Other is acknowledged; when it is ignored or overlooked,
it insists all the more powerfully. The child's face is the ultimate
ethical trap. Some of the most interesting discussions at the No
Future event concerned the Madeleine Mccann phenomenon. Mandy Merck
for me the best speaker at the conference was excellent on this. I'll
try not to repeat points that have already been well made by Antigram,
but the coincidence of the 'Maddy' hysteria with the No Future event
was highly suggestive. What better example could there be of Edelman's
claim that the figure of the child is an unrefusable moral blackmail
in contemporary culture? I need hardly say, I hope, that of course the
disappearance of Madeleine mccann is a horrific event; but we are not
dealing only with the fate of a little girl any more. The media
injunctions about Madeleine mccann have the apparent form of ethical
demands we should maintain awareness, we should feel compassion but
they have no ethical content at all. Rather, the demand that
'awareness' be raised is a symptom of the persistence in postmodernity
of the supposedly primitive belief structure of magical thinking (the
idea that thoughts can have a direct effect on reality); and the
useless, narcissistic compassion we are invited to feel for the mccann
how will that help, them or anyone else? is the piety that is the
flipside of media cynicism. It's not only that Madeleine Mccan's face
is used to cover up other geopolitical events, as antigua shows; it is
also that the pseudoethics surrounding one child's face are used to
blind us to systemic injustices that lead to the suffering and deaths
of many thousands of children and adults every day. (And the sight of
the Pope who actually could do something concrete about systemic child
abuse in the Roman Catholic Church if he wasn't dragging his feet
piously engaging in a thought transference ritual with the Mccan's is
really too grotesque to contemplate.) The divine Daphne. Edelmans
andro(ab)normativism  in principle it is not only the male homosexual
who can occupy the position of the Queer, but in fact most of Edelmans
examples end up being gay men (Antigone and the Birds are, as far as I
recall, the only two cases of Sinthommosexuals in No Future who arent
men) led me to thinking about du Maurier. As yet, I confess to have
only encountered du Maurier indirectly, through the film adaptations
of her work. But what films The Birds, Dont Look Now and Rebecca. (And
what, by the way, of Hitchcocks relationship to Queer women, since he
adapted three of Du Maurier fictions, and one of Highsmiths?) Rebecca,
a film that haunts and is haunted  perhaps most of all by Jane Eyre,
its ancestordoppelganger. Rebecca, which like Jane Eyre and many of
Highsmiths novels achieves uncanny  or would it be better to say queer
effects without any recourse to the supernatural. (A question I want
to raise but cant answer yet: what is the relationship of the Queer to
the Uncanny and the Weird?) Rebecca, which can only be placed in the
interstices of genre: Du Maurier denied it was a romance, but what
else is it? This romance which, unlike the classic romance novel,
begins not ends with marriage  first there is the sham marriage,
Symbolically mandated but existentially and effectively a charade,
then there is the true marriage, with the couple destituted,
dispossessed of the Symbolic property, Manderley. (A near reversal, or
better, a skewing, of Jane Eyre, in which Jane and Rochester,
governess and master, first of all live as if husband and wife,
without Symbolic mandate and without sex, and can only be officially
married only after Thornfield has burned down. In the case of Jane
Eyre, the Other woman has to be killed before the marriage can occur;
in the case of Rebecca, the Other woman  Rebecca herself  blights the
marriage by already being dead.) But isnt Rebecca a sinthommosexual,
as a brilliant piece on du Maurier in the Independent last month,
suggested? The second wife's growing obsession with Rebecca, which du
Maurier claimed was jealousy, begins to seem curiously like desire as
the book proceeds. For one, there's a preoccupation with Rebecca's
physical attributes, which she cannon seem to control. "Wherever I
walked in Manderley, wherever I sat, even in my thoughts and in my
dreams, I met Rebecca," she says. "I knew her figure now, the long
slim legs, the small and narrow feet. Her shoulders, broader than
mine, the strong and clever hands... If I heard it, even among a
thousand others, I should recognise her voice. Rebecca, always
Rebecca." In a telling episode, she goes on the sly to inspect what
had been Rebecca's bedroom, "my heart beating in a queer excited way".
Once there, she begins to fondle Rebecca's intimate possessions. She
notes that the room smelt "queer" that word again. At that moment the
door opens and in comes Danvers, "triumphant, gloating, excited in a
strange unhealthy way". Danvers comes nearer. "Now you are here let me
show you everything," she says. "'I know you want to see it all,
you've wanted to for a long time, and you were too shy to ask.' She
took hold of my arm, and walked me towards the bed. I could not resist
her." But Danvers doesn't thrust the wife on to the bed and have her
evil way with her, as you might expect. Instead, she talks obsessively
about Rebecca. "I did everything for her, you know..." The mood
darkens as Danvers describes the night of Rebecca's death, then
becomes intimate again: "When Mr De Winter is away, and you feel
lonely, you might like to come to these rooms and sit here ... I feel
her everywhere. You do too, don't you?" Though this scene pulses with
the narrator's "queer" excitement, there's dread, too, and distaste:
far be it from du Maurier to admit to "that unattractive word that
begins with L". Danvers, in other words, is a threatening character
because she represents what du Maurier thought of as a threatening
thing. She, like Rebecca, is "a menace". She is often described as
looking dead, a "black figure" with a "skull's face" and "hollow
eyes". That is partly because she is, in one sense, a dead woman: her
heart is in the grave with Rebecca. Like the second wife, who feels
herself to be a ghost, and Rebecca herself, Danvers is a "disembodied
spirit", "all wrong". With all this, it's perhaps surprising that
heterosexuality wins in the end. Or does it? After all, Max de Winter
and his bride are forced into exile in a foreign land, where they
fritter away their time in dull routines, talking about cricket. They
lose Manderley, which stands for many things, among them class,
privilege, marriage, domesticity, all destroyed, burned to the ground
by an enraged lesbian (who gets away scotfree, too, in contrast to the
film). In fact, Manderley can be seen as another box: a grandiose box,
but a box nonetheless, in which the second wife feels herself to be
buried.Master your language! Owen makes a case for resentment. One of
the highlights of Zizek's lectures at Birkbeck last year was his
bravura attempt to do much the same thing; one of the more worthwhile
of his recent reversals of leftist (or perhaps poststructuralist)
orthodoxies. The reclaiming of a certain kind of resentment doesn't
even have to be an antiNietzschean move. Nietzsche's, after all, was
not a denunciation of resentment per se so much as an attack disavowed
resentment. The slave's fault is his bad sublimation of his feelings
of resentment; instead of admitting that he covets the master's power
and strength, the slave pretends (to himself) that it is better to be
pacified, inadequate, wretched. A resentment that induced the slave to
rise up and better the master would no longer belong to slave
morality. Resentment is a much better Marxist affect than jealousy or
envy. The difference between resenting the ruling class and envying
them is that jealousy implies a wish to become the ruling class,
whereas resentment suggests an anger at their possession of resources
and privilege. A resentment that led only to grumbling inaction is
certainly the very definition of a useless passion. But it is by no
means obvious that resentment should end up in such impotence.
Certainly my experiences with teaching unions suggest that it is far
easier to motivate workers by appealing to feelings of resentment than
in it is to appeal directly to any innate sense of their own worth.
Resentment of privilege and unfairness is in many cases the first step
towards confronting interjected and taken-for-granted feelings of
inferiority. 'Yes... why should they get more than us?' Last year, I
quoted Jameson's important observations on class and the experience of
inferiority. I make no apologies for repeating the passage: '[C]lass
consciousness,' he wrote, 'turns first and foremost around the
question of subalternity, that is around the experience of
inferiority. This means that the "lower classes" carry around within
their heads unconscious convictions as to the superiority of hegemonic
or ruling-class expressions or values, which they equally transgress
and repudiate in ritualistic (and socially and politically
ineffective) ways.' Unless resentment is confronted, any affirmation
is in danger of becoming an unconscious affirmation of one's
subordinated, inferior position. Affirmation will precisely end up a
'socially and politically ineffective' ritualistic transgression, an
acting out, that leaves the class structure intact. The will to become
more ('I am nothing and should be everything') turns into a defence of
what one already is. My defences/ become fences.... Unacknowledged
resentment remains the dominant libidinal motor here: cf what Bat, in
Owen's comments boxes calls 'the furiously oscillating couple of
playa/hater in hip-hop culture'. Indeed nothing demonstrates this
phenomenon better than hip hop: capitalist realism as social lottery
and cartoon spectacle, with the lonely plays in their penthouses
engaging in a kind of resentment of resentment. 'Why can't they let us
enjoy our wealth in peace?' It's fitting that Owen should invoke
Tricky here. PreMillennium Tension fits into a long tradition of
working class disillusion with the trappings of pop success. The lines
from 'Christiansands' that Owen cites 'I'll master your language'
(followed by: 'and in the meantime I'll create my own') would resonate
with anyone projected out of the subordinate class or anyone who
wishes to escape such subordination. 'Tricky Kid' recounts what
happens when Tricky achieves his goal; it is at one and the same time
his version of playa bragging ('I live the life they wish they did...
Now they call me superstar') and a registering of disgust at what he
witnesses at the summit ('coke in ya nose'). Disgust at ruling class
revelry doubling into selfdisgust, both slipping into religious mania
class dislocation has never sounded so psychotic. Sadly, Tricky could
not himself resolve the contradictions that his success produced how
could he? How could any individual? It is precisely in the compulsory
affirmations which contemporary culture insists upon that we can find
the bad side of resentment. I think Simon was right to say that a
certain resentment underlies Popism, for instance. It seems to me that
the elevation of the Paris Hilton LP to a central object of study
reveals the double bind of Popism: either it has to be admitted that
the interest is motivated by a reactive flouting of what are taken to
be rocks hierarchies, or it is must be claimed that the LP is being
assessed on its own merits, because it is 'good', in which case all
the problematic issues of evaluation and chronicity are raised again.
Notice that I'm not saying that the LP was bad; like most record
buyers I was indifferent to it. What I am questioning is whether the
popish affirmation of the LP could have happened without a rocks big
Other to scandalise. There is a very definite class dimension in my
distaste for Popism. popish seems to be the working out of set of
ruling class complexes: a sneaking past matron to enjoy forbidden
pleasures. 'We ought to like classical music, but really we like Pop!'
(Incidentally: how many papists are there who didn't go to Public
School?) For those of us who weren't brought up into high culture,
Popism's calls to be always cheerful about mass culture are very much
like being told (by our class superiors, natch) to be content with our
lot. In working out its own resentments, what popish takes away is
nothing less than the right to resentment of the subordinate group. By
contrast, the significance of something like Dennis Potter or post-
punk was that they gave access to aspects of high culture in a space
that legitimated high culture's exclusivity and privilege. The utopian
space they opened up was one in which ambition did not have to end up
in assimilation, where mass culture could have all the sophistication
and intelligence of high culture: a space which pointed to the end of
the current class structure, not its inversion. Owen is right.
Resentment is a fitting response to the degrading and degraded version
of popular culture currently served up by the Oxbridge elite.
Resentment versus contempt and condescension. Resentment and
malcontentment: the beginnings of resistance to capitalist realism's
compulsory positivity. In other news: check out this jawdropping
example of managerialist inanity. If I were writing a sitcom now, it
would be about 'staff development', which is both sinister and
selfsatirisingly hilarious. I wonder if anyone has come upon a worse
or comparable example of dubious staff development initiatives? I will
be in London for a few days, at Simon's thing at Borders tomorrow and
at the Lee Edelman/ No Future event on Saturday. Any readers who are
going who would like to say hello, please mail me. There may not be
any posts until early next week, but never fear, I have some big ones
planned. Blowing a hole in the Symbolic Order... Owen is certainly
right about the uncanniness of Dennis Potter. However, far from
Potter's 'strangeness of the everyday' being an unusual mode of the
uncanny, this is the uncanny in itself, the familiar within the
strange, the strangely familiar, the unhomely. Specifically, Owen
refers to the fact that The music is not located within the diegesis,
but functions to disrupt it . The ontological disjunction between the
music and the drama's 'realism' is insisted upon rather than
airbrushed out. The characters are not singing; they are lip synching.
The recorded music thus becomes a site through which the Real
interposed itself, in at least two ways. Firstly, and, as I argued
here the songs articulate the characters' fantasies and desires, the
Real (voided) core of their being which cannon be acknowledged within
the Symbolic order. The preprogrammed, recorded nature of the music is
absolutely crucial to this Real, because, instead of belonging to some
intimate interiority, they are part of an estimate structure. The very
fact that love songs work at all presupposes this. As I suggested
here, 'The jouissance of beinginlove, as we all know, is to do with
becoming an automaton, you find yourself unable to resist reciting all
those corny lines many of which are not not statements of feelings per
se, but reflexive statements about what you are feeling i.e. "Ive
never felt like this before " but REALLY meaning them THIS time.' Here
Potter is perfectly in tune with Lacan: both insist on the way in
which the structure of desire sings us, turns us into ventriloquist's
dummies who repeat its 'sweet nothings'. But there is a second version
of the Real at work here too the demystifying Real. For, rather than
pretending to be actually singing the songs, the actors are doing
exactly what they appear to be doing: lipsynching to them. In film
musicals or pop videos, lipsynching is disavowed, recording is effaced
and the recorded music is naturalised by being presented as
spontaneous performance. cizek is wont to reject this 'demystifying
Real', the postmodern version of the Brechtian alienationeffect, as an
authentic case of the Real. In fact, he claims that such moments of
postmodern demystification are in flight from the Real of fantasy and
desire. But I think that Potter demonstrates that this is not always
the case. The other artist who combines the demystifying Real with the
libidinal Real to explosive effect is none other than ... David Lynch.
I've remarked before, and more recently here (my, this post is turning
into a punk greatest hits!) on the affinities between Potter and
Lynch. Owen is right to point up a contrast between Lynch's Weirdness
and Potter's Uncanniness, yet there are zones of indiscernibility
where Lynch is working on the terrain of the Potteresque uncanny. The
most powerful example of this is the Club silence scene in Mulholland
Dr. Club silence is both mercilessly demystifying There is no band.
What you will hear are recordings and in thrall to the entrancing lure
of illusion, specifically in this case to the power of the
audioillusions of prerecorded sound. Here, surprisingly, we confront
an unlikely, seemingly paradoxical composite: SurrealistBrechtianism.
Perhaps, however, SurrealistBrechtianism is not so unprecedented,
after all. What is Magritte's 'This is not a Pipe' if not an example
of this strange pairing? If lipsynching can produce uncanny effects,
then so can actual singing, as trailers for Anton Corbijn's upcoming
Joy Division film (see below) demonstrate. Corbijn's decision to have
the actors actually learn and play the Joy Division songs looks to
have been a good one. The standard technique in rock biopic is to have
the actors lipsynch to the original band's recordings. Typically, this
does not produce an interesting Lynchian/ Potteresque charge, but a
botched naturalization. The songs are unconvincingly sutured to the
actors' performances in the style of a bad pop video, undermining both
the recordings and the diegesis. To avoid this, corbin would either
have had to go for a Singing Detectivestyle alienation effect, where
the gap between the actors' miming and the original recordings was
played up, or else do what he ended up doing, and have the actors
actually perform the songs. The latter option makes for an unsettling,
eerie experience: a karaoke of doppelgangers. (Part II of my
reflections on/ extrapolations of the Weird Realism event. Part I is
here.) Collages by Julian House. A provisional definition of the Weird
might take its cue from the slightly odd and ambiguous phrase 'out of'
that hovercraft uses in the titles of two of his stories, 'The Colour
Out of Space' and 'The Shadow Out of Time'. On the simplest level,
'out of' evidently means 'from'. Yet it is not possible especially in
the case of 'The Shadow Out of Time' to avoid the second meaning, the
suggestion of something removed, cut out. The shadow is something cut
out of time. This notion of things 'cut out' of their proper place is
one way in which hovercraft has an affinity with modernist techniques
of collage. Yet there is also a third meaning of 'out of': the beyond.
The shadow out of time is, in part, a shadow of that which is beyond
time. Thinking of the Weird as the 'out of place' or the 'out of time'
will take us some way to distinguishing the Weird from both the
Fantastic and the Uncanny. Lovecraft's texts are not Fantastic in
Todorov's sense because in his 'localised realism' there is no sense
of being suspended between naturalism and supernaturalism. In
Lovecraft's 'nonsupernatural cosmic art', naturalism has been
rejected, but not in favour of a 'marvellous' supernaturalism. As we
have already seen, Lovecraft's emergence as a writer in his own right
is only secured once he has left behind the Fantasy worlds of Dunsany.
Worlds may be entirely foreign to ours, both in terms of location and
even in terms of the physical laws which govern them, without being
Weird. It is the irruption into this world of something from Outside
which is the marker of the Weird. Conceiving of the Weird as the 'out
of place' clearly differentiates it from Todorov's notion of the
uncanny (which is marked by the restoration of the ordinary, the
return of natural laws). But it is also significantly different from
Freud's version of the uncanny, too. (I should point out, at this
juncture, that 'weird' comes up once in Freuds essay as one of the
many synonyms for 'unheimlich'.) Freud's uncanny is about the strange
within the familiar, the strangely familiar, the familiar as strange
about, that is, the way in which the domestic world does not coincide
with itself. The pyschopathologies at work here are those proper to
the interior itself. The Weird brings into this interior space
something which is properly beyond it, which cannon be commensurate
with the 'homely' (even as its negation). Freud's account of the
uncanny has justly been highly influential on the study of Horror in
the end, more because of Freud's hesitations, conjectures and rejected
theses than for the actual definition he provides. Freud's ultimate
solution to the enigma of the Uncanny his claim that it can be reduced
to castration anxiety is disappointing. What fascinates is the cluster
of concepts that circulate in Freud's text, and the way in which they
often reflexively instantiate the very processes that they refer to.
(As Nicholas Royle's comprehensive but irritating study of The Uncanny
brings out, often at rather excruciating length.) Repetition and
doubling themselves an uncanny pair which double and repeat each other
seem to be at the heart of every uncanny phenomena which Freud
identifies. But neither doubling nor repetition play a central part in
the Weird. As China pointed out, the Weird has nothing to do with the
'return of the repressed'. There are, naturally, those who find the
repressed particulary the repressed of sex returning everywhere in
Lovecraft's fiction in disguised form. But this is quite different
from saying that Lovecraft's stories unlike, say, Poe's are actually
about the return of the repressed. Lovecraft's entities do not emerge
as the emissaries of his characters' repressed psychic conflicts. In
rejecting the association of the Weird and the 'return of the
repressed', China argued that, far from being about the insistence of
the past, the Weird is about the breakthrough of the entirely new. As
he put it in his introduction to 'At the Mountains of the Madness':
(Crudely ... one might point to the early twentieth centurys sudden
literary proliferation of the tentacle, a linotype largely missing
from western mythology, as symptomatic of this seachange in the
conceptualisation of monsters. There are partial precursors in some of
H. G. Wellss creatures, in the cowled hunter of MR Jamess story Count
Magnus, and later superb examples in the works of William Hope
Hodgson, E. H. visit and others. Of these writers, however, hovercraft
remains utterly preeminent.) Jon Wozencroft on the Unknown Pleasures
artwork. With Joy Division and everything that surrounded them, you
are constantly confronted by the vast difference between the
improvised, provisional conditions of the work's production, its
dependence on a particular set of historical contingencies, and its
mythic insistence, its timelessness. If Saville 'helped to create the
reality whereby the group could be perceived as truly great' (Morley)
it was by correlating their sound with an imagery that was impersonal,
abstract, coldly rather than pyschedelically cosmic. With every year
that passes, Joy Division seem less like the transmitter of their own
era's geist than the medium through which the ghosts of a dead future
our present first made their sepulchral voices heard. Larval Subjects
with a response to my attack on Deleuze's affirmation, every bit as
detailed and thorough as my piece was peremptory and polemical. Not
that I'm abandoning the position but to respond adequately to LS's
post would take more time than I have at the moment. My brief response
would be that there is a persistent tendency in Deleuze to slip from
supposedly neutral ontological claims (the world is produced by
affirmations) to valorisation (and isn't this good!) It hardly need be
added that the use of a word like 'affirmation' (cf 'intensities')
already invites such a slippage. Of course, for Nietzsche there can be
no 'neutral' claims, ontological or otherwise. Cue the cold laughter
of Schopenhauer... Foucault is Dead extends and finesse IT and my
observations on class and selfbelief. A point relevant to FiD's idea
of self-belief as an 'impossible object'.... Therapists will confirm
that the level of self-belief required to avoid depression is
generally too high; most people systematically overrated their
capacities, achievements and level of happiness. A functional level of
selfbelief, therefore, is in most cases selfdelusory. The current
series of The Apprentice continues where the last one left with,
functioning as an unintentional but brutal satire of business. You
have to remind yourself that this is not some Generation Gamestyle
exercise in which plucky amateurs are pulled off the streets to
perform highskill jobs with which they are unfamiliar. The would-be
Apprentices are already, incredibly, already successful in business.
Last night's task, in which they were asked to brand and advertise
trainers, turned into some gruesome combination of The Office and Ali
G, which was every bit as excruciating as that description implies.
Not just people from "the street" live on a street,' mused Jadine,
leader of a team whose 'big idea' was a brand called 'Street'. 'We all
live on a street. We're all going down the street.' Despite including
'advertising managers' and 'global brand consultants' among their
number, the two teams came up with concepts so inept that they would
have been laughed off by a recalcitrant GCSE Media Studies class.
'Reclaim the Street...' 'Music is your sole'... What continually
amazes me about the Apprentice is how poor the contenders are at
bread-and-butter business skills such as pitching. Katie's pitch last
night was so sublimely bad that it was barely watchable like a
painfully extended recurring nightmare of every poorlyprepared job
interview experience you've ever endured. Yet Katie herself relished
the pitch. 'This is what I enjoy, what I'm good at.' Katie is this
year's justly reviled object of tabloid loathing: what the Mirror
called a 'revolting horserace toff' whose cheeks have that particular
kind of cosiness which is a genetic marker of the hyperprivileged
English. Katie has rightly been attacked for her snobbery, but what is
really striking about her is the discrepancy between her self-belief
and her actual incompetence. She routinely confuses accent with
intelligence, and has managed to convince everyone that she is clever
simply because she is wellspoken. Katie, in fact, is a perfect
illustration of the unwarranted class confidence that IT recently
identified as the main commodity which British public schools have to
sell. When last night Sugar confronted her with the fact that she had
been on the losing side six times (out of eight), Katie's already rosy
cheeks further reddened, not from embarrassment (to which the idiot
confidence of her expensively constructed character armour renders her
immune) but from anger. Katie presides over disaster after disaster,
but her self-belief never wavers. It is not skills or knowledge, still
less intelligence that set the likes of Katie apart from working class
people who would rather die than go into go into a room of experts and
talk nonsense as Katie happily did in last night's episode. Confidence
is the class hex, the social sorcery, that Katie and her class
possess. Rather than intelligence, this is a kind of useful stupidity,
a functional selfdelusion. Once again, the Apprentice demonstrates
that, far from being some brutally Hobbesian 'reality', business
crucially depends upon a tissue of banal fantasies. Bet your
petrococadollar.... Savonarola, who, with three posts already this
month, is in danger of spoiling us, with a typically thorough
examination of oil wars and the resurgence of geopolitics... Von
Sudenfeld's dirty machines. The Von Sudenfeld LP really is as good has
everybody has said it is. I can handle Mark Smith's latterday
incarnation as a Salford damn Suzuki drooling out nonsense word riffs
much more readily when I don't feel compelled to compare it to The
Fall's pulp literary peak on Hex, Grotesque and Slates. Mouse on
Mars's Andi Toma and Jan St Werner have liberated Smith from the tired
krautrockabilly treadmill of the late, late Fall sound: as viscous and
black as the slowly clotting blood of a dead colossus, their
echosaturated backing tracks like Acid hobbled by dusted provide a
fantastic bavarian castle in which the germanise Smith finds a second
home. Von Sudenfeld's sound is dirtymachinic, as battered and filthy
as the nostro in Alien. Its electro FX and bleeps wheeze like a
gonetoseed eighties videogame: imagine Pac Man on skunk. Heavy and
slow gravity seems to be doubled here the tracks' remorseless
bluntinstrument implacability bludgeon Smith's trademark deranged
rants, chants and mutterings into your head. 'I was comfortably
occupying the haunted female body, and if there is anyone who
understands intimately what it is like to occupy the haunted female
body, you are reading her right now...' Kim dot dammit on INLAND
EMPIRE... Comedy Premiere, Thursday 17 May 2007, 8.30pm "The
McClintock Factor" Starring Dan Crimes and Nicholas Burns ("Nathan
Barley", "Absolute Power") Venue: Corsica Studios, 5 Elephant Road,
Elephant & Castle, London se1 lb Running time: 40 minutes His tabloid
newspaper ran prizes offering 20,000 stray dogs, and today, with a
controversial career as a roving reporter behind him, Jeremy
McClintock is seizing the moment. His new political movement, the
Right Path Party, is garnering record approval ratings, and now he
hopes a documentary devoted to his life and work will up the stakes.
Can Jeremy break out of Sappington Bounce and succeed on the road to
Westminster? Or will his murky past catch up with him? For more
information visit: www.jeremymcclintock.com For directions and map to
the venue visit: http://www.corsicastudios.com/LOCATION2.htm General
enquiries: Murray 07878 586 409 Jason 00 33 6 31 13 54 a Films Noirs
productionwww.filmsnoirs.com 1. Ballard's exhausted texts. Owen on the
largely disspiriting, though excellently organised, Ballard conference
at UEA. There was much celebration of Ballard 'finally getting the
recognition he deserved' but it seems to me that anyone worthwhile
(from Burroughs to Jameson to the post-punk to shun to the Ccru) has
long ago recognized Ballard's merit to the point where he is now
ultracanonic for any group that matters. (I recall that after my
interview with Kode9, one commented on dispenses complained of the
ubiquity of Ballard 'don't they read anything else?') It is usually a
cause for alarm when 'general opinion' catches up with underground
consensus; and Ballard has become respectable only long after his
novels ceased to be formally experimental. The lost diagonal that the
is Ballard represented, as Owen argues, is not the experimental per
se, but a popular experimental, a pulp modernism. It may be that
Ballard has already enjoyed his moment of greatest contagion; as Owen
remarked while we wandered among UEA's ziggurats, there is case for
claiming that because of its dissemination in post-punk The Atrocity
Exhibition was the most influential of all postwar fictional texts.
Photograph by Simon Sellars Roger buckhurst argued that it was time
that Ballard, who is continually writing a book with which he is
clearly bored, was 'rescued from the novel'. Sadly, however, the sites
that allowed Ballard to publish his experimental short fiction no
longer exist. With Kingdom Come Ballard seems to have reached a point
of exhaustion; in his best works, there was always an excess of
unconscious imagery over the texts' autotheorization. But that
unconscious imagery now seems to be used up, and, in Kingdom Come,
what remains is what Roger characterised as a 'hectoring polemic'.
Does the future lie perhaps in something like the 'fantasy kits' that
I called for in my piece on Steven Meisel's 'State of Emergency' over
at Ballardian? (Speaking of which, for a more positive account of the
event, see the delightful Simon Sellars' account. ) 2. Rufige's
return. Another, lost, popularexperimental vector: me on refuge ru and
jungle in Fact. 3. Ferry's Fascist groove thing. Lawrence Miles
returns with another bumberpackage of acute observations, including
this on Bryan Ferry: Which reminded me of Daniel's argument that 'no
power, no matter how brutally fascistic, ever actually declares itself
to be for the reign of mystique or tyranny.' How could mystique work
if it actually declared itself to be mystique? Which brings me to...
4. Zizek's disciplined hedonism. Daniel has an excellent response to
Jodi's two posts defending some of the positions cizek advanced in his
300 article. Two of Daniel's points are particularly worth reinforcing
here. Firstly, the opposition between discipline and permissive
hedonism actually contradicts Zizek's previous emphasis on the way in
which hedonism actually entails discipline. As Daniel puts it, 'far
from "discipline and a spirit of sacrifice," functioning in Zizek's
work as "objects jamming the machinery of enjoyment," as Jodi claims,
they are the very things which, according to him, keep it happily
ticking over.' (Nevertheless, it is important not to fall back into
Sixties naivete about the supposed inherent subversions of pleasure,
and Jodi is right to be suspicious of the discredited notion that 'the
problems of the late is could be remedied by a few good orgasms.'
Still, is it quite right to say that 'the left can't provide strong
alternatives to capitalism because it enjoys it'? As I've argued
before, it is essential for any anti-capitalist struggle to give up
the idea that capitalism is an enemy that is 'out there', a purely
impersonal structure in which we in no way participate, but couldn't
it equally be argued that the left can't provide strong alternatives
to capitalism until it presents alternative models of enjoyment? Part
of the problem with Zizek's analysis in the 300 piece is that, in
flipping between discipline and hedonism, it remains internal to neo-
liberal logic. The current model of capitalism requires us to be
disciplined workers as well as pleasure seekers doesn't Sarkozy's
flaccid slogan 'work more to earn more' make this perfectly clear? The
parties of Capital have managed to successfully portray leftists as
both permissive hedonists and dour 'thieves of enjoyment'. The task of
withdrawing from capital's toxic pleasures must also involve inventing
new forms of collective jouissance.) Secondly, I think Daniel is right
to reassert the importance of the difference between a strategic
necessity and something for which one stands. To say that violence is
necessary does not entail that one stands for violence. But to make
this distinction does not, as Jodi argues, set up a conflict between
values and strategic principles. Violence only conflicts with leftist
'values' I use the scare quotes mindful of Daniel's queuing of the
very concept of 'values' when it is posited as a value. 5. Reza's
rotting objects.I had a flash of revelation during Reza Negarestani's
typically dense presentation at Goldsmiths on Wednesday: fluids can't
decay. Reza argues that only solids can succumb to 'softness' without
'transgressing their ontological register'. What we have, in Reza's
Scholasticinfused philosophy, is an account of solid objects that
defines them in terms of their capacity to decay. It is decay that
marks the limits of an object. Decay can only be attributed to an
object (there is no free-floating decay), and only while the object
remains an object (if the object is completely consumed, or entirely
transformed, then there is neither decay nor an object). (I wanted to
complete my post on hovercraft this week, but I now have to prepare
for the Ballard conference at UEA this weekend. So I will present what
I have done so far, more to follow next week...) Thanks, then, to
everyone who attended and participated in the Lovecraft: Weird Realism
event last week at Goldsmiths. Particular thanks to those who led the
discussions: Justin Woodman (whose reflections on the event can be
found on his own blog), Dominic Fox, Ben Noys, China Miville, Nina
Power and Graham Harman. Special thanks, also, to Nina and Daniel who
laboured to produce the booklet given out on the day which contained
all the essays. (See the excellent cover, above.) A mention, too, for
Daniel Gall who travelled all the way from Germany to attend. This
post is illustrated with twelve collages specially made for the event
by Ghost Box's Julian House. Sadly, due to an email glitch, I didn't
receive the collages in time to use them on the day. As Ben noted, the
event was remarkable for staying focused on its official object. One
of the best aspects of the day was that an attempt was made to
actually work something out it wasn't the usual empty rehearsal of
pre-established positions. It seemed to me that the most urgent
theoretical task surrounding hovercraft was to produce a viable
definition of the Weird. There are wellknown definitions contested,
naturally of the Uncanny, the Fantastic and the Marvellous, but the
Weird is a word awaiting a concept. I think that Dominic is right,
however. The Weird still awaits a concept; the event did not come up
with a definition sufficiently crisp to settle the issue. In what
follows, I will make no attempt to represent the full range of
discussions that occurred last week. Rather the posts will be an
attempt to integrate the discussions from last week into my ongoing
reflections on HPL. I've never been fully persuaded by Todorov's
definition of the Fantastic as that which is suspended between the
Uncanny (stories which ultimately resolve in a naturalistic way) and
the Marvellous (stories which resolve supernaturalistically).
Todorov's structural analysis clearly captures something, but I'm not
convinced that 'the Fantastic' is the best name for the mode to which
he refers. In any case, hovercraft could not be a writer of the
Fantastic in Todorov's sense. Although his stories involve what he
characterised, in 'Notes on Writing Weird Fiction' as 'the illusion of
some strange suspension or violation of the galling limitations of
time, space, and natural law which forever imprison us and frustrate
our curiosity about the infinite cosmic spaces beyond the radius of
our sight and analysis', there is never any suggestion of the
involvement of supernatural beings. Human attempts to transform the
alien entities into Gods are clearly regarded by hovercraft as vain
acts of anthropomorphism, perhaps noble but ultimately absurd efforts
to impose Meaning and Sense on to an indifferent cosmos. As Robin
Stevenson pointed out, the cults in hovercraft are 'cargo cults',
groups which hallucinate cosmic Meaning from meteorite fragments,
screen memories of anomalous contact, and cultural debris. We are
never left wondering as to whether the stories will resolve
naturalistically or supernaturalistically. Naturalism the ordinary,
empirical world of common sense and Euclidean geometries will be
shredded by the end of the tale, but it is replaced by a
Hypernaturalism an expanded sense of what the material cosmos contains
rather than a Supernaturalistic dualism. suspense is not a feature of
Lovecraft's fiction and this goes for the settling of the ontological
question, 'what type of world is this?' as much as for the settling of
the plot question, 'what is going to happen?' Once the reader has read
one or two of Lovecraft's stories, they know perfectly well what to
expect in the others. In fact, it is hard to believe that even when a
reader encounters a hovercraft story for the first time that they will
be very surprised by how the tale turns out. Houellebecq observed that
the reader is always ahead of the characters:'[o]ften when reading his
stories, one wonders what the protagonists are taking so long to
understand the nature of the problem menacing them. They appear,
frankly, obtuse.' (55) (This discrepancy between the reader's
experience and that of the characters may also mean that it is
mistaken to conceive of hovercraft as a Horror writer. Certainly,
Lovecraft's characters feel Terror, but is this conveyed to the
reader?) If hovercraft is not a writer of the Fantastic in Todorov's
sense, is he perhaps in some other sense? Maurice Lvy, who wrote
Lovecraft: A Study in the Fantastic twenty years ago, clearly thought
that he was. Yet, for all its merits, Lvy's book declines to offer any
definition of the Fantastic (in a footnote, levy in fact defers that
task to none other than Todorov), and he proceeds to fit hovercraft
into a 'Fantastic tradition' which includes the Gothic novels, Poe,
Hawthorne and Bierce. Is the Weird then a particular mode of the
Fantastic? (It should be noted that hovercraft himself happily equates
the two terms in 'Notes on Writing Weird Fiction'). I don't think this
is satisfactory. I would prefer to locate the Weird in opposition to
the Fantastic. That is because I would define Fantasy, not as Todorov
does, by its relation to naturalism and supernaturalism, but by its
relation to Worlds. Fantasy and here Dunsany, Lovecraft's early
inspiration, as much as Tolkien, is exemplary is set in Worlds that
are entirely different from ours; or rather, vocationally distant from
ours (too many Fantasy worlds turn out to be all-too similar,
ontologically and politically, to ours). The Weird, by contrast, is
notable for the way in which it stages a conflict between this world
and Others. There are of course cases of the Fantastic (C. S. Lewis's
Narnia books, Stephen Donaldson, Baum's Oz) in which there is an
egress between this world and another yet in all those cases I think I
am correct in saying that the journey is only one way. Characters from
this world go into another world, but that Other world has no impact
upon this one. With Lovecraft, there is an interplay, an exchange
between this world and others. levy distinguishes hovercraft from
duncan in the following way: The economy of the fantasy tale demands
this realism. It is because the reader cannon reduce Gilman's
adventures to the dimensions of a simple nightmare that the bizarre
enters. (5051)So much to write, so many reflections on a fascinating
week that included both the hovercraft and the Speculative Realism
events at Goldsmiths. But I seem to be the victim of a curse that
prevents me writing at the moment. No sooner do I arrive back from
London than I fall victim to some viral ailment. My head is beginning
to clear, so expect a post on hovercraft and Weird Realism in a day or
two. In the meantime, ask yourself this which is worse: this or this?
On a lighter note*, this is one of the best sites devoted to
television I've seen. Especially check out 'Nine Things Which Are Now
Obligatory in Any science-fiction TV Series, Even Though Everybodys
Sick of Them'; it's forensic, particularly on the Dr Who theme music
and on CGI.*Actually, the site is only superficially light; Lawrence's
observations on depression, for instance, are horribly acute.
(Provisional thoughts on INLAND EMPIRE, based on one viewing and once,
in this case, is most certainly far from enough...) Lynch's INLAND
EMPIRE is full of holes. A hole cigaretteburned into silk; a hole in
the vagina wall leading to the intestine; a hole punctured into the
stomach by a screwdriver; rabbit holes; holes in memory; holes in
narrative: holes as positive nullity, gaps but also tunnels, the
connectors in a hellish rhizome in which any part can potentially
collapse into any other. Both the cigarette burn hole and the hole in
the vagina wall could serve as metonymy for the film's entire
psychotic geography. The hole in silk is an image of the camera and
its double the spectating eye, whose gaze in INLAND EMPIRE is always
voyeuristic and partial (we would see nothing if it weren't for the
hole, yet what is behind the silk screen?) The hole in the vaginal
wall, meanwhile, suggests a botched and demented Artaudsurgery aimed
at transforming the organism into holey space. Holes within holes. The
best readings of INLAND EMPIRE have rightly stressed the film's
labyrinthine, rabbetwarren anarchitecture. Yet the space involved is
ontological, rather than merely physical. Mulholland Dr was perhaps
the most compelling cinematic presentation to date of what Douglas
Hofstadter calls a 'tangled hierarchy': a breaching of the distinction
between ostensibly embedding and embedded ontological levels. With
INLAND EMPIRE, worldhaemorrhaging has become so acute that we can no
longer talk about tangled hierarchies but a terrain subject to chronic
ontological subsidence. 'Something got out from inside the story', we
are told of the Polish movie which INLAND EMPIRE's filmwithinafilm is
remaking. In INLAND EMPIRE which often seems like a series of dream
sequences floating free of any ostensible reality, a dreaming without
a dreamer (as all dreams really are) no frame is secure, all attempts
at embedding fail. Each corridor and there are many of Lynch's
signature corridors in INLAND EMPIRE is potentially the threshold to
another world. Yet no character the word seems absurdly inappropriate
when applied to INLAND EMPIRE's fleeting figures, figments and
fragments can cross into these other worlds without themselves
changing their nature. In INLAND EMPIRE, you are whatever world you
find yourself in. Reviews have confidently proclaimed that certain
characters are 'prostitutes' or 'actresses'. Yet such rigid
designations have little purchase on INLAND EMPIRE's vertiginous
slippages, in part because the film continually prompts the questions:
what is an actress? What is a prostitute? The short answer is that
both actresses and prostitutes are (only) what they are for others. If
INLAND EMPIRE insists upon the reversibility of the role of whore and
actor the prostitute is an actress, the actress is a prostitute it is
because in its worlds (as in ours), the condition of the actorwhore is
universal: I AM WHAT I AM PAID TO BE. In the midst of one of the
film's most disturbing sequences, shot, appropriately, on Hollywood
Boulevard Laura Dern who may at this point be film star 'Nikki Grace'
or filmwithinafilm character 'Susan Blue' or Nikki Grace possessed by
Susan Blue , (or ....) declares 'I'm a whore', and her tone suggests
hysteria, but also ecstasy and relief, as if the discovery has finally
resolved her ontological inconsistency: So THAT'S what I am.
'Reflexivity without subjectivity', that perfect description of the
unconscious, is exceptionally apt for INLAND EMPIRE's convolutions and
involutions. Nikki Grace and the gaggle of other personae which Dern
plays/ Grace hosts (or fragments into) put one in mind of the
depyschologized altars in RobbeGrillet's novels deprived of
interiority, Nikki is a hole that we cannon help treating as an
enigma, even though it is clear (to us, if not to her) that there is
no hope of any solution. (Another question the film worries away at is
the function of the proper name. What is to name something? So long as
something has physical continuity are we justified in using the same
name for it?) The temptation to ascribe depth, to resolve the film's
ontological conundrum epistemologically and psychologically (i.e. to
attribute the film's to phantasms issuing from the deranged mind of
one of the characters) is no doubt great, but must be resisted if we
are to remain true to what is singular about the film. It is the film
that is mad, not the characters in it. As with Mulholland Dr, we are
left with the impression that in INLAND EMPIRE it is Hollywood itself
that is dreaming. Sunset Boulevard is one of INLAND EMPIRE's
intertexts, and there's something both fitting and ironic about the
fact that Lynch's latest meditation on 'the dream factory' should have
been shot on Digital Video. My fear before seeing INLAND EMPIRE was
that Lynch's vision would dissipate in Digital Video's harsh and
unforgiving light, its antiexpressionistic flatness. If anything,
however, Lynch's sensibility not only survives Digital Video, it
reaches a new pitch through the use of the medium. This is in part
because the use of Digital Video connotes reality: we are accustomed
to seeing Digital Video used for home movies, for videos unloaded onto
YouTube, for local news; its signature is the suggestion of minimal
mediation. To see Lynch's worlds captured on digital video makes for a
bizarre shortcircuiting: as if we are witnessing a direct feed from
the unconscious. In the age of couture and the cameraphone, all the
world really is a film set. With INLAND EMPIRE, Lynch has produced a
horror film for this culture of ubiquitous filming. (It becomes
possible to imagine a future Lynch movie entirely filmed on a mobile
phone.) A word, also, for INLAND EMPIRE's brilliant 'sound design', by
Lynch himself. The sound in INLAND EMPIRE including an audacious and
extensive deployment of Penderecki, which cannon but be heard as a
quotation from The Shining is superb throughout. I would definitely
include in this and here is the one point at which I find myself at
variance with American Stranger's excellent piece on IE the final
sequence, which uses Nina Simone's 'Sinnerman'. Far from finding this
sequence 'infuriatingly cute', it seemed to me like an infernal
version of Dennis Potter Pennies in Hell, perhaps. "I apologise
unreservedly for any offence caused by my comments on Nazi
iconography, which were solely made from an art history
perspective..." Simon comes out fighting for the rocks cause in my
interview with him about his new book. Check out his amazingly indepth
responses on hiphop, the end of the black-white conversation in pop,
and the relationship between his current nurockism and the earlier
advocacy of jouissance and texture.... The temptation to visit the
locations where films or television programmes were made is as
difficult to resist as it is likely to lead to disappointment. We know
perfectly well that the places as they appear on film or television do
not really exist, that they are composites produced in the editing
suite. Nevertheless, the pull is such that we will visit when we can,
even at the risk of destroying our illusions. In the case of the BBCs
M R James adaptations, the temptation to visit the locations is
particularly powerful. Beyond any specific spectral entities, it is
the landscapes  bleak and solemn, as James described them  that haunt
(in) the BBC films. The films capture a seductive slowness proper to
these nearlydeserted heaths and beaches, sublime in their sombre
desolation. James characters are urban scholars who underestimate the
powers of this archaic and arcane terrain, with its ancient lore and
laws, at their peril. They come from populous human centres into
spaces that human beings have never managed to subdue. So, armed with
information provided by jameson News, I go in search of the places
used in the BBC versions of Whistle and Ill Come to You (directed by
Jonathan Miller in 1968) and A Warning to the Curious (directed by
Lawrence Gordon Clark in 1972). By the time they reached the screen,
the locations had undergone a double displacement. In the stories,
James, a regular visitor to Suffolk, used thin ciphers for two Suffolk
places. Whistle and Ill Come to You is set in Burnstow, a transparent
disguise for Felixstowe, then best known as a seaside resort, now
renowned as the site of the largest container port in Britain. A
Warning to the Curious takes place in the town of Seaburgh, whose name
is an easily cracked code for Aldeburgh (in the original manuscript of
the story, James in fact wrote Aldeburgh at one point, before striking
out the Alde and replacing it with Sea). Any visitor to Felixstowe
will recognise James description of the old part of the town in
Whistle and Ill Come to You: James description was sufficiently
precise that, last year, Wyrd Tales was able to reconstruct the lead
character Parkins steps through the town. Similarly, for anyone who
has visited Aldeburgh, James description of jedburgh will inevitably
recall the Suffolk town made famous in the twentieth century as the
final home of Benjamin Britten: Yet Miller and Clark predominantly
used locations not in Suffolk, but in Norfolk. (I say predominantly
because Miller filmed some sequences in the legendary Suffolk town of
Dunwich. The crucial scene in which Parkin comes upon the whistle
whilst wandering among the gravestones on a crumbling cliffside were
recognisably filmed in Dunwich, one of the most tautological sites in
England  a place, which as James namesake Henry noted while on a
walking tour of Suffolk, consists now almost entirely of absence.
Dunwich, once a thriving sea port, was nearly destroyed at a stroke by
a storm in 1328; most of what remained was gradually claimed by the
sea, so that today only a few houses and a single church are still
standing, themselves threatened by the slowly voracious ocean. The
town, with its Lovecraftian echoes think not only of The Dunwich
Horror, but also of the blighted port in The Shadow over Innsmouth
clearly deserves a post in its own right.) Screen caps from the BBC
films are on the left; my photographs are on the right. Since I was
relying on my memory of the BBC films, some of the photographs
correspond better than others with their counterparts from the
television adaptations. (After the Easter hiatus, the first of two
posts about cultural memory.) Since I wrote about the first episode of
Life on Mars, it is fitting that I should return to the show to make a
few remarks on the occasion of its final episode this week. In the
end, the SF elements of Life on Mars consisted solely in an
ontological hesitation: is this real or not? As such, Life on Mars
fell squarely into Todorov's definition of the Fantastic as that which
hesitates between the Uncanny (that which can ultimately be explained
naturalistically) and the Marvellous (that which can only be accounted
for in supernatural terms). As is well known, the predicament that
Life on Mars explored was: is Sam Tyler (John Simm) in a coma, and the
whole 1970s world in which he is lost some kind of unconscious
confabulation? Or has he, by some means not yet understood, been
transported back into the real 1973? The show maintained the
equivocation until the end (the final episode was ambivalent to the
point of being cryptic). Simm has wryly observed that the show's
central conceit lets the production of the hook. If Tyler was in a
coma, then any of Life on Mars's historical inaccuracies could be
explained away as gaps in the character's recollections of the period.
No doubt the enjoyment of Life on Mars derived from its imperfect
recollection, not of 1973 itself, but of the television of the 1970s.
The programme was mitigated nostalgia, I Love 1973 as a cop show. I
say cop show, because it is clear that the SF elements of Life on Mars
were little more than pretexts; the show was a metacop show rather
than metaSF. The time travel conceit permitted the showing of
representations which would otherwise be unacceptable, and beneath the
framing ontological question (is this real or not?), there was a
question about desire and politics: do we want this to be real? As the
avtar of the present, Sam Tyler became the bad conscience of the is
cop show, whose discontent with the past permitted us to enjoy it
again. Simm, as the modern, enlightened 'good cop', was less the
antiope of antediluvian 'bad cop' Gene Hunt than the postmodern
disavowal which made possible our enjoyment of Hunt's invective and
violence. Hunt, played by Philip Glenister, became the show's real
star, beloved of the tabloids who adored quoting his streams of abuse,
carefully constructed by the writers so that they could come across as
comic rather than inflammatory. Hunt's 'nononsense policing' was
presented with enough 'grit' to make us wince, but never so much
violence that it would invoke disgust. (In this respect, the programme
was the cultural equivalent of a blow to a suspect that would not show
up under later medical examination.) Undoubtedly, although perhaps
unintentionally, the show's ultimate message was reactionary; in the
end, rather than Tyler educating Hunt, it was he would come to an
accommodation with Hunt's methods. When, in the final episode, Tyler
is faced with a choice between betraying Hunt or staying loyal (at
this point in the narrative, it appears that Tyler's betrayal of Hunt
is the requisite price Tyler must pay in order to return to 2007),
this also became a choice between 1973 and the present day that
amounted to a decision, not about collar lengths or other cultural
preferences, but about policing styles. Audience sympathy is managed
such that, however much we disapprove of Hunt, we are never supposed
to lose faith in him, so that Tyler's betrayal seemed far worse than
any of Hunt's many misdemeanours. Tyler's (apparent) return to 2007
underscores this by presenting the modern environment as sterile,
drearily worthy, ultimately far less real than the rough justice of
Hunt's era (an interesting comment on the hyperreal dullness of
Blair's Britain). Modern wisdom ('how can you maintain the law by
breaking the law?') is set against Hunt's renegadeheroic
identification of himself with the law ('I am the law, so how can I
break it?') The deep libidinal appeal of Hunt derives from his
impossible duality as upholder of the Law and he who enjoys unlimited
jouissance. The two faces of the Father, the stern lawgiver and Pere
Jouissance, resolved: the perfect figure of reactionary longing, a
charismatic embodiment of everything allegedly forbidden to us by
'political correctness'. In my first post on Life On Mars I mentioned
Baudrillard's remarks that computers do not have memory because they
cannon forget. (Ironically or appropriately I had forgotten that I had
previously made this connection, and was about to begin this post with
the same Baudrillard reference.) Digital memory can be damaged or
incomplete, but this is not the same as forgetting, which is not in
any real sense the opposite of remembering. Personal or cultural
memory is inherently 'incomplete', because there is no memory without
distortion and embellishment. In any case, these observations came to
mind the other day when I was wondering if the new series of Dr Who,
which continues to frustrate and disappoint, will be remembered as the
old one was. In the period before reruns on digital channels and VHS
reissues, the old show existed only in the form of memory, of course.
In the case of many of the episodes from the 1960s, long since wiped
by the BBC, this remains so. Well, not quite: the soundtracks to all
of the old episodes survive, even though the images are missing. (This
allowed the BBC to reconstruct the recently reissued Patrick Troughton
adventure, The Invasion, using Cosgrove Hall animations for the two
episodes that have not been recovered.) But in the press period, Dr
Who persisted as memory, perhaps augmented by the Target novelisations
which, after a while, became indistinguishable from the experience of
watching the shows themselves (with the result that there are certain
adventures from the early is that I am no longer sure if I saw at the
time or not). These augmented recollections, these redreamings,
inevitably had a richness that the actual episodes, when they were
available again, could not match, damaging the reputation of the
previously celebrated early is adventures. The current Dr Who is the
victim of a syndrome that is pretty much the opposite of this: hyped
to death by the BBC (the ludicrously laudatory Dr Who Confidential
would have you believe that the new Dr Who is practically the most
sophisticated drama programme the BBC has ever made), repeated during
the week on digital channels, available almost immediately on DVD, it
suffers from excessive presence. The relentless subBuffy smart alert
and tiresome pop culture references (this week it was Harry Potter)
root this Dr Who firmly in the early twenty-first century, time
traveller as Last Man... In the midst of a PR maelstrom, the programme
itself looks increasingly slight (that lightness is emphasised all the
more by Murray Gold's histrionic music, such a contrast with the
radiophonic Workshop's Electronic Weird). Like so much contemporary
television, Dr Who seems like an advert for itself: twitching neurotic
in its desire to please, overexcitable in its pacing, it is always
trailing the next grafication, never lingering long off to enough to
provide much enjoyment. If this Dr Who will be remembered, it will not
be remembered in the same way that the old one was, precisely because
memory will no longer required. The programme has been demoralized in
advance, so there is no need for us to remember at all. Scroll down
for me on The Focus Group... Apologies, but, unlike Owen, I can't
declare an end to the holidays: I still have visitors. But I'm taking
a hauntological/ M R James trip tomorrow. I hope to be able to report
back on that on Thursday. punk gets a mention on this roundup of Brit
blows in the Russian magazine Big City. Running the piece through this
online translator yields the amusing results that automatic
translation programmes usually produce. Most notable is the
description of Ian Penman ( ) as 'an outstanding musical journalist
with scandalous customs'. Of the Pillbox, the translation continues:
'All this is written very impulsively  it is visible, that the person
takes things to heart. Here last incident:  has furiously thrown on
colleague salmon reynolds (other most outstanding English musical
critic, whose marginal notes (blissout.blogspot.com) too should find
time), finding out values of mysterious concept . Soon after this
enchanting skirmish  has suddenly broken off and does not write one
and a half month.' Also check the description of Beyond the Implode's
Martin, who writes 'with such furious humour that propagation turns
out enough ...' A number of threads that have come up here recently
hauntology, the collapse of the public sphere, the Lehrstucke, Lee
Edelmantype Queer theory, the end of music coalesce in Ultrared's
Public Record project, an internet 'archive of audioactions' made by
untraced and their allies. Ultrareds own account of the project is
explicitly hauntological. One could seductively interpret Public
Record as an archive of death: a death of social movements, a death of
coalitions, campaigns, utopias, struggles, and a death of socialism.
Such an interpretation would profoundly miss the point. Not to mention
that such a reading would be only possible were the archive not used.
In listening, one invariably gets caught up in the record and its
political effects. The record is a remainder. A remainder that is also
a reminder, a reinvocation, the calling up of a ghost of a chance.
Witness, also, their rationale for the great AIDS Uncanny series
(alternate title: 'time for the dead to have a word with the living'):
'THE AIDS UNCANNY series examines AIDS activist strategies of the
past. Artists interrogate the record of those actions and practices,
listening for some remainder haunting the present, to act as a kernel
for a new radicality. Do we wait around for anger, or do we work
within our existing affective spaces? This is the art of a broken
silence.' Silence and Death are the tautological twins around which
much of the material on Public Record is organised. Silence and Death
were doubled in the old AIDS activist cry, 'Silence=Death', and
various recordings of that chant reverberate throughout the AIDS
Uncanny series. The equation 'Silence=Death' can only be broken if the
dead, those condemned to silence, gain a voice; and if the voices of
the living can become media through which the dead, the absent, can
speak. The material on Public Record circulates around a number of
(interlocking) themes AIDS, poverty, immigration, Queer politics. The
treatment of these themes by 'sound artists' might invite a weary
groan; you might expect a double dose of worthiness. Yet untraced
deliver on their promise to produce a 'Queer Electronica', where
'Queer' defiantly regains its associations of strange, uncanny,
abnormal. untraced are suspicious of a queer politics which orientates
itself around the imperative of normalising same-sex relations, a
politics whose horizons are marked by the pursuit of the once derided
goal of 'gay marriage'. Even though there is an engagement with
popular forms, untraced refuse populism, both aesthetically and
politically. When XLR8R asked Ultrared's Dont Rhine last year 'What do
you want people to do with this record?', he replied, 'Radical,
ecstatic, critical bodily engagement. Our struggles begin on the
surface of the skin. Spare us the old cliches about "intelligent dance
music". A Silence Broken sees body music as a site for critical
engagement'. Of course, we've all read self-serving rationales for
sound installations claiming to 'engage the body' only to bore it
rigid. But it is Ultrared's relationship to dance music, specifically
to House, that sets them far apart from sound art aridity. This is no
vampiric 'intelligent' take on dance music (which no matter how much
blood it sucks, remains bloodless), but precisely a tautological
rendition: a series of seances summoning the spirit of collective
struggles and collective ecstasies. The centrepiece of last year's An
Archive of Silence, part of the AIDS Uncanny series, is a spectral
channelling of Mr Fingers' Acid classic 'Can you feel it?' The
question unspoken on both the original, instrumental track and on the
untraced version now assumes hauntological/ political significance.
Can you (still) feel it? How many who danced to this Acid classic when
it came out twenty years ago have since died in the AIDS epidemic,
which continues to spread in the US, where federal AIDS dollars are
diverted to Christian fundamentalists preaching that the virus is
God's punishment? The invocation of House an American cultural site
that was both gay and black is especially poignant given that,
according to Ultrared, an astonishing '45% of all African American men
who have sex with men are HIV positive, 70% of whom don't know their
HIV status. Contributing to today's AIDS crisis is the fact that one
out eight Americans live in poverty.' From the point of view of AIDS,
neoliberalism is a wonderful thing. The Public Record is not intended
to be a faithful record, a mere capturing of the empirical. Indeed,
like Chris Marker, untraced pose the question of what is it to
document or record an event; they appear to share Marker's conviction
that it is only through processes of estrangement that sound and
images can attain truth or political efficacy. 'Without that
infidelity between mouth and ear, a slippage invariably invoking an
other, there can be no politics.' Hence there is no earnest breast-
beating here, no injection towards 'clear communication'... What is
inspiring is the dissolution of established forms; Ultrared's
establishing of a continuum between House, electro-acoustic and spoken
word does to music what Marker, Curtis and killer do to the
documentary. (Especially recommended is the first volume of the AIDS
Uncanny series, A Silence Broken, which actually includes a track
called 'Repetition Compulsion' by Death Drive.) Cage's dictum, 'this
is music anyone can make, all you have to do is listen', becomes a
licence for cyberpunk production and militancy, a challenge to use
recording technologies and the net's means of replication to engender
new forms. Rhine's answer to XLR8R's question 'How does electronic
music convey political messages?' is a model riposte to Stekelmanism*:
'Political messages are not the point. I, personally, have little
interest in communicating a political point in a piece of music.
Rather, I am more interested in how music already activates us
socially, sexually, intellectually, aesthetically. I see all these
modes of being structures of feeling if you will as having political
currency. It is not the case that our politics merely reproduce our
modes of being. Rather, it is through these that the conditions for
our politics are reproduced. If our art insists on the disavowal of
politics, then we get the politics that disavowal makes possible.
Today, that politics is fascism.' *Stekelmanism (a.k.a. 'Man Who Fell
Asleepism'): insistence on the separation of culture and politics;
hard ideological labour for neoliberalism; militant aesthetic
complacency; middlebrook commonsense; antiintellectualism; compulsory
frivolity, esp. prevalent amongst AngloMedia types, exemplified by
responses on these two comments thread, and by these sorry
cartoons.Networks and Assemblages: The Rebirth of things labour and
DeLandaFriday 20 April5.007.00pm, Ben Pimlott Lecture Theatre With
Graham Harman | American University in Cairo Graham Harman is
Assistant Professor of Philosophy at the American University in Cairo.
He supported himself through part of graduate school as a Chicago
sportswriter, in which capacity he interviewed figures such as Sammy
Sosa and Bobby Knight. He is the author of ToolBeing: Heidegger and
the Metaphysics of Objects, Guerilla Metaphysics: Phenomenology and
the Carpentry of Things, and Heidegger Explained: From Phenomenon to
Thing, as well as translator of burun Kramer's History of Palestine.In
recent years, Manuel demand has been one of the more imaginative
defenders of realism in philosophy. In his latest book, A New
Philosophy of Society (2006), demand portrays a world of alliances and
alloys in which things are nonetheless not defined by their
interactions with other things. This brings demand into tacit
agreement and enmity with Bruno Latour, who also pictures a world of
autonomous actors partially linked in networks. Although their models
of reality are strikingly similar, and though both authors contribute
to a badly needed revival of metaphysics in the continental tradition,
they disagree on the key point of how a thing is defined by its
relations within the world. This talk aims to clarify the silent
dispute between labour and DeLanda, which deserves to be a central
controversy of the emerging objectphilosophy.Speculative RealismFriday
27 April1.007.00pm, Ben Pimlott Lecture Theatre A one-day workshop co-
sponsored by COLLAPSEChaired by Alberto volcano | Sociology,
Goldsmiths Participants:Ray brasier | Middlesex UniversityIain
Hamilton Grant| UWE (University of West England)Graham Harman |
American University in CairoQuentin Meillassoux | Ecole Normale
Superieure (Papers available online here) Attendance is free but
please register beforehand by emailinc Alberto volcano at
a.toscano@gold.ac.uk Contemporary continental philosophy often prides
itself on having overcome the age-old metaphysical battles between
realism and dualism. subject-object dualism has supposedly been
destroyed by the critique of representation and supplanted by a
fundamental correlation between thought and world. This workshop will
bring together four philosophers whose work questions some of the
basic tenets of this continental orthodoxy. Speculative realism is not
a doctrine but the umbrella term for a variety of research programmes
committed to upholding the autonomy of reality against the
depredations of anthropocentrism, whether in the name of
transcendental physicalism, object-oriented philosophy, or abstract
materialism. Me on Wire's Live at Roxy/Live at CBGB Theatre...
Apologies for lack of substantive activity of late, I've a couple of
deadlines to meet... back later this week... Bethan Cole, who also has
a new blog, on Ghost Box, Mordant Music and Junior Boys versus 'the
bizarrely careless new rave and the dubious charms of an unending
production line of derivative indie guitar bands' in The Sunday Times
today. Meanwhile, if you want to imagine what the buildings of melbury
Poly might look like, you could do worse than peruse this fabulous set
of photographs (via Sit Down, Man) one example above... Also check out
Ben boys on Ballard and Baudrillard over at the alwaysexcellent
palladian No Future event at King's College, London No Future together
one-day symposium on Lee Edelmans No Future: Queer Theory and the
Death Drive. Further details via IT There's nothing very surprising in
Adam Curtis' The Trap: What happened to our dreams of Freedom,
compelling as it is. Judging by the second episode (I missed the first
one last week), The Trap might as well be called A Brief History of
NeoLiberalism. Using his trademark oneiric style, Curtis shows how the
spread of reductive models of human motivation from the Cold War into
economics, education and science led to the occlusion of politics.
This week, Curtis concentrated on New Labour, demonstrating how the
Blairites' fixation on targets and quantification of the
unquantifiable led not to increased efficiency of public services, but
what I have called 'market stalinism'. Curtis' detailing of the way in
which harrassed managers 'game the system' cutting waiting times in
casualty by employing nurses whose only job was to say 'hello' to
patients, or classifying trolleys as beds made for a bitter comedy,
whose punchline is the fact that social mobility has actually declined
under a Labour government. Ironically, as Bat complained in his
review, The Trap performs its own occlusion of politics. 'There is no
sense of any kind of alternative vision, nor any pointers to a
solution. Episodes such as the rise of Margaret Thatcher just
"happen", with the immense political conflicts of that period
relegated to a footnote. Rather than seeing ideas as being consciously
promoted by particular social forces, Curtis paints a world where we
all just sleepwalker into oblivion.' What that is left out of The Trap
struggles, contestation, alternatives is covered in Marker's A Grin
Without a Cat, which kind Fist will be showing next week. I wrote the
following about A Grin Without a Cat last year: ... 'which few would
countenance now'... An observation that, sadly, is confirmed by the
comments thread on this post of Daniel's, where the idea that
'entertainment' could have any political implication is considered so
self-evidently ridiculous that anyone holding it must be 'sexually
inadequate'. This, mind you, is in relation to 300, a film described
by Ahmad sari as follows: If it is regarded as an absurd stretch to
find political meaning in a film like this, what hope is there? This,
assuredly, is the militantly complacent view from inside the
entertainmentopiated Trap. The accusations of 'sexual inadequacy' are
particularly telling. Perhaps we need to reverse this; it is not that
political awareness is a symptom of sexual inadequacy, but quietism
that is a symptom of hedonic satiation. Further to my remarks on the
musical in my post on Brecht, Matthew Moore writes: I confess that I
haven't seen 'Once More with Feeling', but this sounds very much like
Pennies from Heaven and The Singing Detective, where the truth of the
characters' feelings and fantasies emerges in Song. Yet this truth
cannon appear in its own right, but only as an interruption of the
ordinary rules and conventions of realism (one way, perhaps, in which
truth must appear in the guise of fiction). That was what fascinated
me about Brecht's take on songs that, in the Musical, their role was
to produce an ontological rupture, a break in realism's entrancing
imitation of life. Pennies from Heaven is of course about the power of
songs, and perhaps Arthur's tragic fate is sealed once he seeks to
make the two worlds the world of everyday reality and the 'world that
the songs are about' coincide. In Edith's Diary (which may well be her
masterpiece), Highsmith produces a vivid description of music's power
to disrupt everyday life. Edith is a talented writer who has
sacrificed her career to take on the roles of wife, mother (of a
slacker misfit) and carer (to her husband's helpless geriatric uncle).
She uses music as a means of keeping the agencies of everyday life the
relentless, Sysiphian 'household flow' of domestic tasks briefly at
bay. Unreal, and yet for many seconds the inspired waltzes made her
love her house more, made her remember that the house and the semi-
rural life she had now was after all what she had wanted for years.
... When the first side of the record was finished, the silence began
to attack Edith like a live thing, eating away at her brief
contentment. This was life, she thought, back to the ironing which she
now did in the kitchen, back to thinking of where next she might send
the article on recognising Red China. A vague depression crept through
her, crepuscular, paralysing. refuge ru Malice in Wonderland
(Metalheadz). A strangely outoftime set, like a lost album from 1995
but actually recorded in the last year with Goldie's latest
collaborator, Heist. While Goldie's output under his own name has been
variable at best, everything he has produced under the refuge ru
moniker has been pristine. Malice in Wonderland is compulsive;
listening to it like returning to a drug you were once hooked on and
wondering why you ever gave it up. Sunn0))) and Boris Altar. From
October last year, this makes the best case I've yet heard for
dronecore as the return of postrock. The album's anomalous
centrepiece, 'Sinking Belle (Blue Sheep)', featuring the vocals of
Jesse Sykes, is an eerie, echodrenched submarinedeep downer that
sounds like some cross between Seefeel, Insides and Portishead. If
Sunn0))) are metal, it is liquid metal; the physical states that they
recall are those in which a solid begins to liquify, or a liquid
begins to solidify the slow flow of glacial ice or cooling lava.
Fittingly, then, the first track on Altar is called 'Etna', the last
'Blood Swamp', the latter's title perfectly capturing the sound's
clotted viscosity. But the track puts one in mind more of ice fields
than fetid swamps: with all the elegiac tense poise of Morricone's
Once Upon a Time in America, 'Blood Swamp' could be a soundtrack for
the melting of the polar icecaps. You can practically feel the massive
ice sheets slowly cracking beneath your feet, the crevices beginning
to open up... Baudrillard's contribution can be most easily
appreciated when you consider who condemned him and why. He was
denounced by BritAmerican empiricists as an incomprehensible
obscurantist at the same time as he was dismissed by the overlords of
Continental Philosophy for being a pop philosopher, flimsy and
insubstantial. Behind these denunciations, you gain a glimpse of a
theorist who was playful yet solemn, an opaquely lucid stylist who was
in love with jargon and in touch with media. Baudrillard was never
quite laborious or detached enough to qualify as a Continentalist, nor
even as a philosopher (he was based, improbably, in a Sociology
department). Always an outsider, projected out of the peasantry into
the elite academic class, he ensured his marginalization with the
marvellously provocative Forget Foucault, which wittily targeted
Deleuze and Guattari's micro-politics as much as it insouciant
announced the redundancy of Focault's vast edifice. In Baudrillard,
theory escaped the 60s. Baudrillard's texts, in their disappointed
tone as much as anything else, belong to our world, our era. The
various revolutions of the sixties were petering out as Baudrillard
began to produce his work. The system proved to be voracious, protean;
it absorbed the attacks of its would-be enemies and sold them back as
advertising. Critique was useless; new fatal strategies needed to be
developed, which involved the theorist homeopathically introjection
elements of the system, the code, in the hope of setting the system
against itself, overbalancing it. It is a commonplace that science
fiction reveals more about the time it was written than it tells us
about the future. But Baudrillard's self-styled sciencefictiontheory
which drew upon the theoretical fictions of Ballard and Dick actually
did foretell the future, which is our present. Already, in the 1970s,
Baudrillard was basing theoretical riffs on reality TV and the media
logic of terrorism. His texts, which dispensed with the academic
machinery of footnotes and references around the time of Symbolic
Exchange and Death in 1977, became increasingly incantatory and
aberrant lyrical until they resembled a glacial cybernetic poetry,
which, especially in the later works, you could easily believe was the
work of some dejected AI, endlessly remaining its own concepts and
linguistic formulas. Baudrillard is condemned, sometimes lionised, as
the melancholic observer of a departed reality. He was certainly
melancholic, but what he mourned was not a lost reality but what he
variously termed the illusory, symbolic exchange, the seductive.
Reality disappeared at the same moment that art and artifice were
eliminated. Deprived of its heightened reflection, extension and
hyperbolization in myth, art and ritual, reality cannon sustain
itself. It is the very quest to access reality in itself, without
illusion, that generates the hyperreal implosion. Here, as Baudrillard
long ago realised, reality TV is exemplary. Film an unscripted scene
and you might not have art, but you do not have reality either. You
have reality's uncanny double, its excrescence: simulation, precisely.
Baudrillard: the prophet in our desert, the prophet of our desert.
'The irreversibility of biological death, its objective fact and
character, is a modern fact of science. Every other culture says that
death begins before death, and that life continues after life, and
that it is impossible to distinguish life from death. Against the
representation which sees in one the term of the other, we must see
try to see the indeterminacy of life and death, and the impossibility
of their autonomy in the symbolic order.' Symbolic Exchange and Death
See also: antigua and Sit down man... A few weeks ago, after I had
written about Robbie as a paragon of PoMo, Daniel posed a question to
me: weren't the features I was ascribing to Williams distanciation,
irony, acting 'as if' he were a pop star exactly those of the
Brechtian alienation effect? The answer to Daniel's question is
provided by Owen in the course of a tremendous post on the Brechtian
'Verfremdungseffekt'. Williams' battery of stage tricks is one of many
examples of the way in which postmodernism has recuperated the
alienation effect. Robbie's reflexive tics function, not to lay bare
the structures beneath and behind performance, but to draw attention
to his loftily transcendent ego, which is always positioned above and
outside performance. By contrast with 'Brechts works', which are
'absolutely full of singing, dancing, rhythm, laughoutloud jokes,
wickedly biting irony, and perhaps most importantly, a refusal to ever
be boring', there's always been a joylessness, a refusal to give in
Williams' cheeky chappy song-and-dance routines. One interesting and,
on the face of it, surprising component of Brecht's theory is in fact
the role it ascribes to music (or what Brecht, to differentiate his
use of songs and sound from the 'ceremonial' use of music in the
classical concert hall, called 'misuc'). We're accustomed to regard
music as a mystifying force, beguiling, rhapsodic, antireason. Yet
Brecht thought that music should play the role of interrupting
somnambulent immersion: The Musical emerges as a fundamentally avant-
garde form, profoundly antinaturalistic. Songs are able to shake us
from our trance not by virtue of any inherent properties of music
itself, but because they cannon be made ontologically consistent with
realism. Songs erupt into the diegesis, dissipating its spell. Owen's
invocation of Dennis Potter here is surely entirely apt. Pennies from
Heaven and The Singing Detective operated as a pulp modernist
reclaiming of the reflexive techniques postmodernism had appropriated
and tamed. Potter demonstrated that reflexivity need not function
either as narcissistic indulgence or as a bar to enjoyment; and that
works which exemplified the Verfremdungseffekten could be extremely
popular without being populist. The same goes for Public Enemy, also
cited in Owen's piece. Using the Bomb Squad's shock tactics, PE
explicitly aimed to use sound to 'wake us up', to shake their audience
from media trance: 'too many people are sleeping while standing up'.
We're no longer supposed to mention PE (too 'rockist'), but they
functioned for those of us of a certain age much like The Clash
supposedly operated for a previous generation, as politicised and
mythographers, uniting sonic intensity and experimentalism with
didactic in a way that Strummer and co could only dream of. Unlike
rock, which inherits Romanticism's willtotrance, rap has always been
metatextual, eternally vigilant, pathologically awake to the point of
insomnia. Hip hop continually draws the audience's attention to the
different ontological levels at play in the 'text': the rapper's
boasts reminding us that a performance is happening, the surface noise
of the record itself becoming incorporated into the track, the
disjuncture and incongruities of the samples functioning as a literal
'making strange' of musical history. Yet the once shocking alienation
effects produced by hip hop have long since been naturalised, with rap
now established as both an entertainment genre and a form of
'realism'. Owen sets Brecht up against Beckett (or at least the
middlebrook version of Beckett, which casts him as the lone, tortured
artist). In terms of fiction, Beckett's antiope might well be
Burroughs, who, as Daniel pointed out in his KinoBrecht essay (not yet
online) was a follower of Brecht. Even though he greatly admired
Beckett an admiration that was not reciprocated Burroughs himself saw
Beckett as his opposite. 'Beckett is journeying inwards, I am
journeying outwards', Burroughs said. There was much more to their
differences than that but perhaps what they had in common was a
refusal of realism; Beckett gradually paring representation back,
producing texts that were something like the equivalent of abstract
paintings, Burroughs going in the direction of fragmentation, citation
and collage. All of which puts an interesting perspective on what Carl
is calling 'the New Solemnity'. Perhaps the reason that japesterish
irony and po-faced belief can so easily resemble one another is that
they are not opposites so much as flip sides of the same coin. I say
this as much as a reproach and reminder to myself as anything else. I
suppose I first confronted this conflict of aesthetic visions when I
tried to reconcile listening to The Fall with listening to Joy
Division as a teenager. It wasn't only Joy Division's solemnity which
The Fall were implicitly antipathy towards; it was the very
selflessness of Joy Division's aesthetic which The Fall with their
alike reflexive selfawareness, their parodies, their continual
breaking of frame, blew apart. Joy Division made good on the promise
of Romanticism, dwelling in a dark night of Dionysus denuded of all
revelry and reduced to the pure lust for abolition. What entranced was
their psychological realism, their metaphysics of presence, the
illusion of telepathic contact with another's mind. The Fall rejected
Romanticism absolutely. Yet, at their best, like Potter and PE, they
showed that seriousness need not entail religious solemnity, that
enjoyment and thinking could be mutually intensifying rather than
mutually exclusive, that naturalisation would not have to be
concomitant with delibidinization. The profound relevance of Brecht,
then, as a reminder, in fact, that 'enjoyment' is intertwined with
'making strange'. Here and mindful of Simon's recent exasperation at
popism's eternal sunshine of the spotless mind it is worth reasserting
the distinction between pleasure (a return to previous satisfactions,
according to Freud) and an enjoyment that lies beyond the pleasure
principle. Interestingly, a while back Fire in the Mind actually asked
'whether punk is in any way still capable of truly enjoying music'.
'Eventually,' he goes on, 'I always start doubting those meticulously
constructed theories, because I suspect the words were there almost at
the same time as the aesthetic experience itself.' This assumes an
opposition between thinking/ writing and 'aesthetic experience' which
cries out for deconstruction using 'deconstruction' very technically
to mean an unsettling of the metaphysics of presence. Fire in the Mind
is by no means a popist, as far as I can tell, yet what he appears to
share with popish is a privileging I would say a mystifying of the
category of 'aesthetic experience', whose alleged purity is to be set
against the corrupting mediations of language/ writing. Simon argues
that it is impossible to write about 'a record entirely in terms of
its pleasurability. I guarantee by the middle of the second paragraph
youll be reaching for some kind of measure of significance or
relevance.' I would go further: it is impossible to take any pleasure
from music if you focus entirely on its hedonic qualities alone.
Leaving aside the Lacanian wisdom that enjoyment is only possible if
there are impediments to it, the popish aim to 'eliminate all
obstacles to pleasure' makes hedonism a kind of monastic discipline
which, taken to its logical extreme, would require that we encounter
pop as abstract quanta of pleasureinducing stimuli, devoid of all
associations and cognitive content. (Here popish has an affinity with
the Deleuzian quest to encounter raw intensities.) The imperative that
we make ourselves a tabular rasa, an empty self open to all and any
pleasure, actually ends up as a form of ascetism, as demanding and
austere as any Kantian call for disinterestedness. Insofar as there is
an 'aesthetic experience' and I suppose the lesson I was trying to
draw from Brechtianism was that we ought to be very suspicious of that
category it seems to me indissolubly bound up with cognition and
reflection. Writing about pop is not some grim duty, grave and heavy,
which distances you from enjoyment. On the contrary, writing and
thinking are a continuation of the enjoyment of the 'music itself'.
When I write about pop, I do not only seek to represent some
preexisting enjoyment; I seek to intensify and extend the enjoyment
that I take from listening. It is an autocratic process, which more
often than not makes me enjoy the 'experience' of a record more when I
return to it. In this way, the enjoyment of the music is not confined
to the times when one is actually listening to it; the images,
thoughts and affects which the music throws up linger long after the
record has stopped playing. I will be at this one... I promise I'll
write something of my own soon, but now Marcus Scott (whom I never
would have suspected was a devotee of this sort of thing) enters the
fray, with some errata and addenda: Got to remember too, earth 2,
which is kind of the ur lp for a certain type of doom was out on user
grunge label subpop, not a metal label, so to an extent it's the messy
misery of grunge taken to extremes, the guitar sound on earth 2 isn't
as punishing or heavy as the guitars on the sun drone tracks or
something like boris when they've done drone. I reckon it chimes in a
timely way with what loner etc were all up to. Southern lord is a
metal label too, O'malley himself was a journalist for the black metal
scene etc who did a magazine called descent, he knows his shit
obviously, a lot of the other bands on the label are metal proper.
Incidentally do you know about Probot, a heavy metal supergroup, who
released on southern lord, featuring members of (black metal
originals) venom, lemmy from motorhead, lee dorian from cathedral
etc... all singing over tracks written by erm David Grohl from
Nirvana/Foo fighters, so in a way this stuff's roots are the splits
between grunge and metal, grunge being one of the last times I think
guitar music had much to say in terms of a popular music form. Jon
Wozencroft on Sunn0))) (highly relevant to Carl's remarks on the New
Solemnity about which I hope to say something in a day or two and the
affinities between metal and Dead Can Dance, NWW, Nocturnal Emissions,
Current 93): And Joe from A Mess of Help begs to differ with Sebastian
about Earth: 'Pentasonic is not an Earth album, while Pentastar: In
The Style Of Demons is, and far from being "rote stonerrock" it's
actually one of Earth's weirdest albums...' Sunn0))) talk about Earth
and the robes (link courtesy Matthew Jones) Meanwhile, Sebastian
Roberts provides more of the Earth backstory: Following the release of
"Earth 2", Dylan Carson was left standing as the band's sole member.
While working on the third album by himself, his close friend & former
collaborator Kurt Cobain killed himself with the shotgun that Carson
had given him as a present. Needless to say, Carson was thoroughly
rattled. He gave one more halfhearted attempt at playing music (the
rote stonerrock "Pentasonic", '96) and then disappeared into the
aether. Once Earth finally emerged on record for the first time in
nine years, Carson had stripped his sound of the tidal distortion,
leaving the barest sinew of minimalist American Gothic rock thumbed
out of a Telecaster. This new Ennio MorriconeviaDavid Lynch sound
stands in obvious contrast to the molassestruckinanearthquake groan of
"Earth 2", but when you consider that both records were masterminded
by a big, scary, trigger-happy redneck raised on death metal in the
lonelier corners of the Pacific Northwest... it makes sense. It was
thanks in no small part to O'Malley & Anderson's encouragement that
Carson eventually came out of hiding. From putting out Earth's new
albums on their Southern Lord label to routinely bringing Carson & Co.
on the road, the SunnO))) dudes are his most avid patrons. That Earth
opens for their progeny is simple economics: between their buzzedabout
label, numerous other undergroundbreaking projects (Khanate, Burning
Witch), and semiconstant touring, SunnO))) are just more popular
amongst the hipoisie & semiinterested indie toedippers. Pitchfork,
naturally, can take a lot of credit for that. Expanding the guest
worker programme still further, here is reader Sebastian Roberts on
Sunn0))): But you've heard SunnO)), so you know what it sounds like.
And I'm not writing just to give you the recordstoredweller nerd
backstory. I'm just wondering how/if this changes your assessment of
O'Malley & Anderson, given that they had seven years prep time before
debating their own act. They've had another nine since to perfect
their ritualised performance aesthetic. Keep in mind that Metal was
alive, well, and dynamic when "Earth 2" was unleashed in 1991: that
same year, Metallica released their "Black Album" and Guns 'N' Roses
put out their dualalbum blockbuster "Use Your Illusion." (Actually, if
Metal HAS a spectral remnant, it's probably the promise of "Chinese
Democracy's" eventual release but anyway...) There was no ghost yet to
be resurrected from Metal. What Dylan Carson offered was a more pure,
contemplative yet purposedriven alternative. In this light, Carson
becomes the musical equivalent of an ascetic monk surviving on the
barest of essentials; SunnO))) become his apostles & champions, though
they clutter the proceedings with needless accoutrements & ceremony.
So let's wrap it up nicely and call those meddlesome and obnoxious
elder statesmen of scene, the Melvins, the JohntheBaptists of Doom.My
review of the very generic new Fall LP is now up on the Fact website.
Sadly, Carl was right... Reader Matthew Jones joins in the discussion
of Metal/hauntology/Burial: 1) As he quite rightly points out,
sonically sunny are removed from much of metal, but he should also
have noted the affect it has on the listener in an emotional/spiritual
sense, particularly when experienced live. The ceremonial nature of
their performance is actually, unlike the relentless grind of every
other doom metal act (e.g Khanate, recent Celtic Frost material) that
I've ever heard, an uplifting and joyous experience; a total embracing
of the darkness they (largely wordlessly) articulate, without the
aggression and violence that characterises their peers. In many ways,
SunnO's closet relatives are not within metal, but in
spiritual/religious music, such as qawili. Compare and contrast sunny
with muscat fate Ali Khan; lengthy pieces of music (where something
clocking in at about 10 minutes could be considered brief), which
cycle through seemingly endless repetitions, leaving the listener
either in a total trancedout state or sending them into a state of
pure rapture (if you ever see sunny live, take a few moments to cast
yr eye around the audience and you'll see what I mean.) In the case of
Nusrat, he frequently dispensed with actual words and uses a series of
vocal sounds that in many ways express the intense religious
love/ecstasy far better than words ever could (even if one does
understand Urdu); SunnO's vocals, when they are present, are so
ridiculously distorted and echoplexed that even when they sound like
words you couldn't possibly make out more than the briefest of
snippets (and like Nusrat, would probably weaken the effect). Both
artists share the ability to command yr attention without leaving you
the actual choice of where to direct it; yr drawn in to their world
inexorably; compare that to other doom metallers, where unless you are
really on it trying to pay attention becomes something of a chore
fairly quickly. SunnO's sound, and fundamentally their philosophy, is
one of ecclesiastical nihilism. It goes deeper than"revelling in the
jouissance of the terminal" (the words 'revel' and 'jouissance'
themselves suggest a level of indulgence and frivolity absent in their
sound), but to some sort of religious ecstasy induced through
distortion and sub bass. And it is PURE, in a way their peers could
never hope to be. Anderson and O'Malley don't refer to their live
shows as "subsonic rituals" and didn't call the last tour "autumnal
bass communion" for nothing. 2) On the subject of Burial, it surprises
me that no one has linked his postage south London with Joy Division's
Manchester as etched out in "Unknown Pleasures", [kpunk interjection.
They have Jon Wozencroft was also very quick to insist on the
parallel...] which to my ears sounds like it should immediately be
added to the tautological canon (if such a thing really exists). Sonic
superficiliaties such as minimalism, echoes and found sounds in the
mix? Check. A sense of mourning infusing both records? Check ("Me and
him, we're from different, ancient tribes, now... we're both almost
extinct... dreams don't rise up they descend/ but I remember/ when we
were young."). Temporal disturbances? Check. (Joy Division and
Hanett's gutting+spectralising of rock* tunes, e.g war pigs, maps
almost perfectly onto Burial's faded step beats and rave synths. Not
to mention Wilderness' "I travelled far and wide through many
different times" line, which in many ways strikes me now as UP's key
lyric; the isolation and despair expressed by Ian Curtis stemming from
knowing that which others do not remember and cannon know). Both
records create seemingly accurate yet entirely mythical
representations of the areas most closely associated with the two
artists; a kind of map to orientate yerself with if you've no previous
knowledge of the area, which you'll find shows landmarks that no
longer exist upon arrival; just rubble, boarded up windows and flyers
from over a decade ago peeling of the walls. Also, they are both
associated with scenes (postpunk and dubstep) that they both still
seem so far removed from; even the core proto goth groups like The
Cure and The Banshees don't really fit neatly with JD; whereas they
sound tortured but alive, JD and in particular Ian Curtis (as you've
noted before) already sound dead, and Burial clearly operates in a
different space to his dusted peers, as previously discussed by pretty
much everyone who has voiced an opinion on the subject. Perhaps the
strongest link between JD and Burial is this sense of being alone,
falling through the little gaps and cracks in time into a place where
they've always been and always will be, totally separate from their
contemporaries and their successors (I imagine that like Joy Division
no one will be able to go anywhere near Burial's musical terrain, both
sounding like the aural equivalent of those little time capsule things
with artifacts of today's world that get buried for school projects
and such like; despite being reflections on the past, they've also
exhausted the final alternatives for their particular musical format).
* Kevin Shields described MBV's sound as rock minus its guts, "the
remnants". Whilst I've never been convinced about this as a
description of MBV, I can't imagine a better description of JD exists.
Reader Alex Williams on metal and hauntology: In that case, Black
Metal could be lined up more with what we might call the 'mainstream'
of dusted (with which Burial has very little in common). Dubstep's
relationship to jungle doubles Sunn0))'s relationship to Metal. Like
Sunn0))), dusted has produced a nonelegiac 'ghostimage' of its
sourceinspiration (which in the case of dusted is Jungle). At one
level, dusted and Sunn0))) could be heard as a (literal) continuation
of their inspirations: a sound constructed entirely out of a listening
of the aftereffects, the traces (echoes, reverberations) of a departed
sonic body. What Metal and dusted (and Noise, for the matter) have in
common is a philosophy, a metaphysics. At one step back, what they
share is a commitment to the idea that music should come out of a
philosophy. What is absolutely refused is the hegemonic Indieendorsed
ratification of commonsense, with its usually implicit insistence on
the smallness of music, its ultimate irrelevance. Irony is repudiated.
Music is not 'just music'. It to be taken extremely seriously, even at
the risk of seeming absurd. It is perhaps the absence of any fear of
ridicule that is most to be treasured in (Doom and Black) Metal.
Xasthur's nihilism, which bleeds out through all their titles ('Arcane
and Misanthropic Projection', 'Through A Trance Of Despondency') is
unrelenting, unrelieved by any raised eyebrows, while Sunn0)))'s
return to costume and performance in the most pofaced, ritualistic
sense are a repudiation of the dresseddown Indie assertion of an
continuity between everyday life and the stage. If you want to hear
the Metal/Dubstep, parallels, the Distance/Vex'd Breezeblock mix
(available to download here) is well worth a listen. 1. Ha ha 2.
Wolves Evolve takes up and runs with the Robbie thing. (My quoting of
Liam Gallagher, naturally, shouldn't be taken as any kind of
endorsement of Oasis, perish the thought. But Gallagher has a
sledgehammer way with invective, and his relentless pillorying of
Robbie is certainly to his credit. 3. A tremendous run of posts by
Dominic on Xasthur/ black metal/ generic misanthropy, partly in
dialogue with Documents. Fascinating as Documents' take on
Xasthurasmetalhauntology is, I'm inclined to agree with Dominic that
arthur are better described as 'Doomgazer'. arthur are like
Lovelessera My Bloody Valentine with all the oestrogen removed
nihilism as jouissance. As Dominic suggests, there is no temporal
discrepancy in Xasthur. arthur may have 'blackened buzz ... wrapped in
huge swathe of fuzzy sonic fog' but their textures aren't slices of
time, if only because time has ended in their rundown cosmos: 'Black
metal is relentlessly entropic, committed to a one-way temporality in
which intensities run inexorably down to zero and stay there,
forever'. It is like the fantasy of being present at your own funeral,
but on a much grander, more epic, scale. 'The state of mind suggested
by Subliminal Genocide is one of trancelike contemplation of the ashes
of the cosmos the logical endpoint of Xasthurs misanthropic
individualism.' Dominic argue that Xasthur's 'is a universe of
perpetual suspension, in which resolution can never arrive' but it
might almost be the reverse: a universe in which resolution has been
finally achieved, and the tension that accompanies all vital processes
or rather, the tension that is all vital processes has been
extinguished. Death, but no death drive. 4. I'm glad that Simon drew
my attention to You need a Mess of Help. Who could resist a site whose
links bar includes the following: Entrances To Hell, SubUrban,
Derelict Places, Nobody There, subterranean Britannica, UK Cold War,
Kelvedon Hatch, English Heretic, geography British Isles, Haunted TV,
Delia Derbyshire, TV ARK, British Horror Films, Quatermass, Outpost
Gallifrey? I found myself nodding along to this post on Boards of
Canada. I must admit, until recently I wasn't able to see the appeal
of BoC at all, and that was largely because of the indifferent beats.
I also agreed with pretty much all of this. (I say pretty much,
because Mess is nowhere near hard enough on Love & Monsters, which was
the worst. Dr. Who. eva.) The next kind Fist screenings take place on
Sunday... Weird Realism: hovercraft and Theory with April 2007, 11a.m.
6 p.m.Centre for Cultural StudiesGoldsmiths University London 'A
philosophy should be judged on what it can tell us about Lovecraft...'
(Graham Harman) A unique one-day symposium dedicated to exploring H.
P. Lovecrafts relationship to Theory. The event will not follow the
ordinary format of the academic conference. Some written materials
will be circulated beforehand, but there will be no papers delivered
on the day. Instead, there will be structured discussions based on
five of Lovecrafts stories:  Call of Cthulhu The Shadow over Innsmouth
The Dunwich Horror The Shadow out of Time Through the Gates of the
Silver Key Themes to be discussed include:  The Weird Fictional
systems Lovecrafts pulp modernism  Houellebecqs Lovecraft hovercraft
and superstition  Lovecrafts materialism  Lovecrafts racism and
reactionary modernism hovercraft and schizophrenia  hovercraft and the
transcendental hovercraft and schizophoniaParticipants so far include:
Benjamin boys (Chichester)  author of The Culture of Death and Georges
Bataille: A Critical Introduction Graham Harman (Cairo)  author of
Tool Being and Guerilla Metaphysics. China manville  acclaimed author
of period Street Station, The Scar, and other tales of the Fantastic.
luciano paris (Goldsmiths)  author of Abstract Sex: Philosophy,
Biotechnology and the Mutations of Desire Steve Kode9 Goodman (UEL)
author of the forthcoming Sonic Warfare Dominic Fox  poetic webley
Mark Fisher (Goldsmiths)  punk webley Anyone wishing to attend should
email Mark Fisher (kpunk99[at]hotmail.com). Registration is free but
places are limited. If anyone wishes to lead discussion on any of the
stories, please state in the email which story you would like to talk
about. The thing is, Robbie, there's no rehabilitation from PoMo. The
sickness that afflicts Robbie Williams is nothing less than
postmodernity itself. Look at Williams: his whole body is afflicted
with reflexive tics, an egoarmoury of grimaces, turns and grins
designed to disavow any action even as he performs it. He is the 'as
if' Pop Star he dances as if he is dancing, he motes as if he is
emoting, at all times scrupulously signalling with perpetually raised
eyebrows that he doesn't mean it, it's just an act. He wants to be
loved for 'Rudebox' but, unfortunately for him, his audience demands
the mawkish sentimentality of 'Angels'. How Robbie must hate that song
now, with its humbling reminders of dependency (Williams' career went
into the stratosphere on the basis of 'Angels') and lost success...
Let me entertain you, let me lead you There's surely a Robin
Carmodytype analysis to be done of the parallels between Williams and
Tony Blair. Williams' first album, the tellinglytitled Life Thru a
Lens was released in 1997, the year of Blair's first election victory.
There followed for both a period of success so total that it must have
confirmed their most extravagant fantasies of omnipotence (Blair
unassailable at two elections; Williams winning more Brit awards than
any other artist). Then, a decade after their first success, an
ignominious decline into irrelevance (the postural Blair limping out
of office as a lame-duck leader, Williams releasing a disastrous album
and checking himself into rahab on the day before this year Brit
awards, at which he had received a derisory single nomination). Of
course, there are limits to the analogy: Blair is popular in the
States, whereas Robbie... Williams and Blair are two sides of one
Joker Hysterical face: two cracked actors, one given over to the
performance of sincerity, the other dedicated to the performance of
irony. But both, fundamentally, actors actors to the core, to the
extent that they resemble pad simulacra, shells and masks to which one
cannon convincingly attribute any inner life. Blair and Williams seem
to exist only for the gaze of the other. That is why it is impossible
to imagine either enduring private doubts or misgivings, or indeed
experiencing any emotion whose expression is not contrived to produce
a response from the other. As is well known, Blair's total
identification with his publiclyprojected messianic persona instantly
transforms any putatively private emotion into a PR gesture; this is
the sincerity effect (even if he really means what he is saying, the
utterance becomes fake by dint of its public context). The image of
Blair or Williams alone in a room, decommissioned androids
contemplating their final rejection by a public which once adored
them, is genuinely creepy. It is perfectly possible to imagine Robbie
exhibiting public doubts, of course indeed, as his former reflexive
potency declines into reflexive impotence, he is most likely to be
seen insisting upon his inadequacy and failure. No doubt this is why
Williams' announcement of his 'addiction' to antidepressants and
caffeine has been greeted with a certain scepticism (suspicion has
been aroused in part because of the timing of the announcement, on the
eve of the Brits). But this scepticism misses the point. Williams'
sickness is, precisely, his incapacity to do or experience anything
unless it provokes the attention of the other. Or: as Liam Gallagher
more succinctly put it, in words worthy of Mr Agreeable at his
compassionate best: "If you've got a fucking problem, why do you want
the whole world to know about it?. I say sort yourself out. You make a
fucking crap album then want everyone to feel sorry for you. What a
fucking tosser. Dont start improvising for Christs sake The
temptation, when writing about The Falls work of this period, is to
too quickly render it tractable. I note this by way of a disclaimer
and a confession, since I am of course as liable to fall prey to this
temptation as any other commentator. To confidently describe songs as
if they were about settled subjects or to attribute to them a
determinate aim or orientation (typically, a satirical purpose) will
always be inadequate to the vertiginous experience of the songs and
the distinctive jouissance provoked by listening to them. This
enjoyment involves a frustration  a frustration, precisely, of our
attempts to make sense of the songs. Yet this jouissance  something
also provoked by the late Joyce, Pynchon and Burroughs is an
irreducible dimension of The Falls modernist poetics. If it is
impossible to make sense of the songs, it is also impossible to stop
making sense of them  or at least to it is impossible to stop
attempting to make sense of them. On the one hand, there is no
possibility of dismissing the songs as Nonsense; they are not
gibberish or disconnected strings of non sequiturs. On the other hand,
any attempt to constitute the songs as settled carriers of meaning
runs aground on their incompleteness and inconsistency. The principal
way in which the songs were recuperated was via the charismatic
persona Smith established in interviews. Although Smith scrupulously
refused to either corroborate or reject any interpretations of his
songs, invoking this extratextual persona, notorious for its strong
views and its sardonic but at least legible humour, allowed listeners
and commentators to contain, even dissipate, the strangeness of the
songs themselves. The temptation to use Smiths persona as a key to the
songs was especially pressing because all pretence of democracy in the
group has long since disappeared. By the time of Grotesque, it was
clear that Smith was as much of an autocrat as James Brown, the band
the zombie slaves of his vision. He is the shamanauthor, the group the
producers of a deliriuminducing repetition from which all spontaneity
must be ruthlessly purged. Dont start improvising for Christs sake,
goes a line on Slates, the 10 EP follow-up to Grotesque, echoing his
chastisement of the band for showing off on the live LP Totales Turns.
Slates Prole Art Threat turned Smiths persona, reputation and image
into an enigma and a conspiracy. The song is a complex, ultimately
unreadable, play on the idea of Smith as working class spokesman. The
Theat is posed as much to other representations of the proletarian pop
culture (which at its best meant The Jam and at its worst meant the
more thuggish Oi!) as it is against the ruling class as such. The art
of The Falls pulp modernism  their intractability and difficulty  is
counterposed to the misleading ingenuousness of Social Realism. The
Falls intuition was that social relations could not be understood in
the demystified terms of empirical observation (the housing figures
and sociological memory later ridiculed on The Man whose Head
Expanded). Social power depends upon hexes: restricted linguistic,
gestural and behavioural codes which produce a sense of inferiority
and enforce class destiny. What chance have you got against a tie and
a crest?, Weller demanded on Eton Rifles, and it was as if The Fall
took the power of such symbols and vigils very literally,
understanding the social field as a series of curses which have to be
sent back to those who had issued them. The pulp format on Prole Art
Threat is Spy fiction, its scenario resembling Tinker Tailor Soldier
Spy redone as a tale of class cultural espionage, but then compressed
and cut up so that characters and contexts are even more perplexing
than they were even in Le Carres already oblique narrative. We are in
a labyrinthine world of bluff and counterbluff  a perfect analogue for
Smiths own elusive, allusive textual strategies. The text is presented
to us as a transcript of surveillance tapes, complete with ellipses
where the transmission is supposedly scrambled. Prole Art Threat seems
to be a satire, yet it is a blank satire, a satire without any clear
object. If there is a point, it is precisely to disrupt any
centripetal effort to establish fixed identities and meanings. Those
centripetal forces are represented by the Middle Mass (vulturous in
the aftermath) and the Victorian vampiric culture of London itself, as
excoriated in Leave the Capitol: This horrifying vision of London as a
stopford city of drab conformity ('hotel maids smile in unison') ends
with the unexpected arrival of Machens Great God Pan (last alluded to
in The Falls very early Second Dark Age), presaging The Fall's return
of the Weird.The textual expectoration of Hex Hex induction Hour was
even more expansive than Grotesque. Teeming with detail, gnomic yet
hallucinogenically vivid, Hex was a series of pulp modernist pen
portraits of England in 1982. The LP had all the hubristic ambition of
Prog combined with an aggression whose ulcerated assault and battery
outdid most of its post-punk peers in terms of sheer ferocity. Even
the lumbering Winter was driven by a brute urgency, so that, on Side
One, only the quiet passages in the lugubrious Hip Priest  like dub if
it had been invented in drizzly motorway service stations rather than
in recording studios in Jamaica  provided a respite from the violence.
Yet the violence was not a matter of force alone. Even when the
record's dualdrummer attack is at its most pounding vicious, the
violence is formal as much as physical. Rock form is disassembled
before our ears. It seems to keep time according to some system of
spasms and lurches learned from Beefheart. Something like Deer Park  a
whistle-stop tour of London circa 82 sandblasted with Sister Raystyle
white noise screams and whines as if it is about to fall apart at any
moment. The bad production was nothing of the sort. The sound could be
pulverisingly vivid at times: the moment when the bass and drums
suddenly loom out of the miasma at the start of Winter is
breathtaking, and the doubled-up tattoo on Who Makes the Nazis? fairly
leaps out of the speakers. This was the space rock of Can and Neu!
smeared in the grime and mire of the quotidian, recalling the most
striking image from The Quatermass Xperiment: a space rocket crash-
landed into the roof of a suburban house. In many ways, however, the
most suggestive parallels come from black pop. The closest equivalents
to the Smith of Hex would be the deranged despots of black sonic
fiction: Lee Perry, Sun Ra and George Clinton, visionaries capable of
constructing (and destroying) worlds in sound. As ever, the album
sleeve (so foreign to what were then the conventions of sleeve design
that HMV would only stock it with its reverse side facing forward) was
the perfect visual analogue for the contents. The sleeve was more than
that, actually: its spidery scrabble of slogans, scrawled notes and
photographs was a part of the album rather than a mere illustrative
envelope in which it was contained. With The Fall of this period, what
Gerard Genette calls paratexts  those liminal conventions, such as
introductions, prefaces and blurbs, which mediate between the text and
the reader  assume special significance. Smiths parapets were clues
that posed as many puzzles as they solved; his notes and press
releases were no more intelligible than the songs they were nominally
supposed to explain. All parapets occupy an ambivalent position,
neither inside nor outside the text: Smith uses them to ensure that no
definite boundary could be placed around the songs. Rather than being
contained and defined by its sleeve, Hex haemorrhages through the
cover. It was clear that the songs werent complete in themselves, but
part of a larger fictional system to which listeners were only ever
granted partial access. I used to write a lot of prose on and off,
Smith would say later. When we were doing Hex I was doing stories all
the time and the songs were like the bits left over. Smiths refusal to
provide lyrics or to explain his songs was in part an attempt to
ensure that they remained, in Barthes terms, writerly. (Barthes
opposes such texts, which demand the active participation of the
reader, to readerly texts, which reduce the reader to the passive role
of consumer of alreadyexisting totalities.) Before his words could be
deciphered they had first of all to be heard, which was difficult
enough, since Smiths voice  often subject to what appeared to be loud
hailer distortion was always at least partially submerged in the mulch
and maelstrom of Hexs sound.In the days before the internet provided a
repository of Smiths lyrics (or fans best guesses at what the words
were), it was easy to misheard lines for years. Even when words could
be heard, it was impossible to confidently assign them a meaning or an
ontological place. Were they Smiths own views, the thoughts of a
character or merely stray semiotic signal? More importantly: how
clearly could each of these levels be separated from one another? Hexs
textual expectoration were nothing so genteel as stream of
consciousness: they seemed to be gobbets of linguistic detritus
ejected direct from the mediated unconscious, unfiltered by any sort
of reflexive subjectivity. Advertising, tabloid headlines, slogans,
preconscious chatter, overheard speech were elasticated into dense
schizoglossic tangles. Who wants to be in a Hovis advert any way? Who
wants to be in a Hovis/ advert/ any way? Smith asks in Just Step
Sways, but this refusal of cosy provincial cliche (Hovis adverts were
famous for their sentimentalists presentation of a bygone industrial
North) is counteracted by the tacit recognition that the mediated
unconscious is structured like advertising. You might not want to live
in an advert, but advertising dwells within you. Hex converts any
linguistic content  whether it be polemic, internal dialogue, poetic
insight  into the hectoring form of advertising copy or the screaming
ellipsis of headlinespeak. The titles of Hip Priest and Mere pseudo
Mag Ed, as urgent as fresh newsprint, bark out from some vorticist
front page of the mind. As for advertising, consider Just Step Sways
opening call to arms: When what you used to excite you does not/ like
youve used up allow your allowance of experiences. Is this an
existentialist call for self invention disguised as advertising
hucksterism, or the reverse?Or take the bilious opening track, The
Classical. The Classical appears to oppose the anodyne vacuity of
advertisings compulsory positivity (this new profile razor unit) to
ranting profanity (hey there fuckface!) and the gross physicality of
the body (stomach gassss). But what of the line Ive never felt better
in my life? Is this another advertising slogan or a statement of the
characters feelings? It was perhaps the unplaceability of any of the
utterances on Hex that allowed Smith to escape censure for the
notorious line, where are the obligatory niggers? in The Classical.
Intent was unreadable. Everything sounded like a citation, embedded
discourse, mention rather than use. Smith returns to the Weird tale
form on Jawbone and the Air Rifle. A poacher accidentally causes
damage to a tomb, unearthing a jawbone which carries the germ of a
curse/ of the Broken Brothers tentacle Church. The song is a tissue of
allusions James (A Warning to the Curious, Oh, Whistle and Ill Come to
you, my Lad), hovercraft (The Shadow over Innsmouth), Hammer Horror,
The Wicker Man culminating in a psychedelic/ psychotic breakdown
(complete with torchwielding mob of villagers): Jawbone resembles
nothing so much as a League of Gentlemen sketch, and The Fall have
much more in common with the League of Gentlemens febrile carnival
than with witless imitators such as Pavement. The coexistence of the
laughable with that which is not laughable: a description that
captures the essence of both The Fall and The League of Gentlemen's
grotesque humour. White Face finds roots 'Iceland', recorded in a
lavalined studio in Reykjavik , is a fantastic encounter with the
fading myths of North European culture in the frozen territory from
which they originated. White face finds roots Smiths sleevenotes tell
us. The song, hypnotic and undulating, meditative and mournful,
recalls the non-white steppes of Nico's The Marble Index in its arctic
atmospherics. A keening wind (on a cassette recording made by Smith)
whips through the track as Smith invites us to cast the runes against
your own soul (another James reference, this time to his Casting the
Runes). Iceland is rock as ragnarock, an anticipation (or is it a
recapitulation) of the End Times in the terms of the Norse Doom of the
Gods. It is a Twilight of the Idols for the retreating hobgoblins,
cobol and trolls of Europes receding Weird culture, a lament for the
monstrosities and myths whose dying breaths it captures on tape: A
Memorex for the kraken I'll be back midweek, with Part III of the Fall
post featuring.... prole threat, textual expectoration, Hovis ads,
ragnorock, white face finds roots... Here's a sneak preview, in the
MES font you can download here.... A reminder that the second kind
Fist presentation is taking place tomorrow (Sunday) at 3 PM in
Hackney. Click on flyer for more details. (AT LAST and they said it
would not be done!: Part II but be warned there is still a Part III to
follow.) (Part I is here) M R James, be born be born Whether Smith
first came to James via TV or some other route, James stories exerted
a powerful and persistent influence on his writing. Lovecraft, an
enthusiastic admirer of James' stories to the degree that he borrowed
their structure (scholar/ researcher steeped in empiricist common
sense is gradually driven insane by contact with an abyssal alterity)
understood very well what was novel in James' tales. In inventing a
new type of ghost, hovercraft wrote of James, he departed considerably
from the conventional Gothic traditions; for where the older stock
ghosts were pale and stately, and apprehended chiefly through the
sense of sight, the average James ghost is lean, dwarfish and hairy  a
sluggish, hellish nightabomination midway betwixt beast and man  and
usually touched before it is seen. Some would question whether these
dwarves figures ('ten times my age, one tenth my height') could be
described as ghosts at all; often, it seemed that James was writing
demon rather than ghost stories. If the libidinal motor of Lovecrafts
horror was race, in the case of James it was class. For James
scholars, contact with the anomalous was usually mediated by the lower
classes, which he portrayed as lacking in intellect but in possession
of a deeper knowledge of weird lore. As hovercraft and James scholar S
T Joshi observes: James wrote his stories as Christmas entertainments
for Oxford undergraduates, and Smith was doubtless provoked and
fascinated by James stories in part because there was no obvious point
of identification for him in them. When I was at the Witch trials of
the with Century they said: You are white crap. (Live at the witch
trials: is it that the witch trials have never ended or that we are in
some repeating structure which is always excluding and denigrating the
Weird?) A working class autodidact like Smith could scarcely be
conceived of in James scleroticallystratified universe; such a being
was a monstrosity which would be punished for the sheer hubris of
existing. (Witness the amateur archaeologist Paxton in A Warning to
the Curious. Paxton was an unemployed clerk and therefore by no means
working class but his grisly fate was as much a consequence of getting
above himself as it was of his disturbing sacred anglo-saxon
artefacts.) Smith could identify neither with James
expensivelyeducated protagonists nor with his uneducated,
superstitious lower orders. As Mark Sinker puts it: 'James, an
enlightened Victorian intellectual, dreamed of the spectre of the once
crushed and newly rising Working Classes as a brutish and irrational
Monster from the Id: Smith is working class, and is torn between
adopting this image of himself and fighting violently against it. It's
left him with a loathing of liberal humanist condescension.' But if
Smith could find no place in James world, he would take a cue from one
of Blakes mottoes (adapted in Dragnets Before the Moon Falls) and
create his own fictional system rather than be enslaved by another
mans. (Incidentally, isnt Blake a candidate for being the original
pulp modernist?) In James stories, there is, properly speaking, no
working class at all. The lower classes that feature in his tales are
by and large the remnants of the rural peasantry, and the supernatural
is associated with the countryside. James scholars typically travel
from Oxford or London to the witchhaunted flatlands of Suffolk, and it
is only here that they encounter demonic entities. Smiths fictions
would locate spectres in the urban here and now; he would establish
that their antagonisms were not archaisms. The Grotesque Peasants
stalk the Land By the time of Grotesque, The Fall's pulp modernism has
become an entire politicalaesthetic program. At one level, Grotesque
can be positioned as the barbed Prole Art retort to the lyric antique
Englishness of public school Prog. Compare, for instance, the cover of
'City Hobgoblins' (one of the singles that came out around the time of
Grotesque) with something like Genesis' Nursery Cryme. Nursery crime
presents a gently corrupted English surrealist idyll. On the 'City
Hobgoblins' cover, an urban scene has been invaded by 'emigres from
old green glades': a leering, malevolent cobol looms over a
dilapidated tenement. But rather than being smoothly integrated into
the photographed scene, the crudely rendered hobgoblin has been
etched, Nigel Cookestyle, onto the background. This is a war of
worlds, an ontological struggle, a struggle over the means of
representation. Grotesque's 'English Scheme' was a thumbnail sketch of
the territory over which the war was being fought. Smith would observe
later that it was 'English Scheme' which 'prompted me to look further
into England's "class" system. INDEED, one of the few advantages of
being in an impoverished subaru group in England is that you get to
see (If eyes are peeled) all the different strata of society for
free.' The enemies are the old Right, the custodians of a National
Heritage image of England ('poky quaint streets in Cambridge') but
also, crucially, the middle class Left, the Chabertistas of the time,
who 'condescend to black men' and 'talk of Chile while driving through
Haslingdon'. In fact, enemies were everywhere. Lumpen punk was in many
ways more of a problem than prog, since its reductive literalism and
perfunctory politics ('circles with A in the middle') colluded with
Social Realism in censuring/ censoring the visionary and the
ambitious. Although Grotesque is an enigma, its title gives clues.
Otherwise incomprehensible references to 'huckleberry masks', 'a man
with butterflies on his face' and Totale's 'ostrich headress' and
'light blue plantheads' begin to make sense when you recognize that,
in Parrinder's description, the grotesque originally referred to
'human and animal shapes intermingled with foliage, flowers, and
fruits in fantastic designs which bore no relationship to the logical
categories of classical art'. Grotesque, then, would be another moment
in the endlessly repeating struggle between a Pulp Underground (the
scandalous grottoes) and the Official culture, what Philip K Dick
called 'the Black Iron Prison'. Dick's intuition was that 'the Empire
had never ended', and that history was shaped by an ongoing occult(ed)
conflict between Rome and Gnostic forces. 'Specter versus Rector'
('I've waited since Caesar for this') had rendered this clash in a
harsh bureau black and white ; on Grotesque the struggle is painted in
colours as florid as those used on the albums garish sleeve (the work
of Smith's sister). It is no accident that the words 'grotesque' and
'weird' are often associated with one another, since both connote
something which is out of place, which either should not exist at all,
or which should not exist here. The response to the apparition of a
grotesque object will involve laughter as much as revulsion. 'What
will be generally agreed upon,' Philip Thompson wrote in his 1972
study of The Grotesque 'is that "grotesque" will cover, perhaps among
other things, the compresence of the laughable and something that is
incompatible with the laughable.' The role of laughter in The Fall has
confused and misled interpreters. What has been suppressed is
precisely the compresence of the laughable with what is not compatible
with the laughable. That compresence is difficult to think,
particularly in Britain, where humour has often functioned to ratify
commonsense, to punish overreaching ambition with the dampening weight
of bathos. With The Fall, however, it is as if satire is returned to
its origins in the grotesque. The Fall's laughter does not issue from
the commonsensical mainstream but from a psychotic Outside. This is
satire in the oneiric mode of Gillray, in which invective and
lampooned becomes delirial, a (psycho)tropological spewing of
associations and animosities, the true object of which is not any
failing of probity but the delusion that human dignity is possible. It
is not surprising to find Smith alluding to Jarrys Ubu Roi in a barely
audible line in City Hobgoblins (Ubu le Roi is a home hobgoblin). For
Jarry, as for Smith, the incoherence and incompleteness of the obscene
and the absurd were to be opposed to the false symmetries of good
sense. But in their mockery of poise, moderation and selfcontainment,
in their logorrheic disgorging of slanguage, in their glorying in mess
and incoherence, The Fall sometimes resemble a white English analogue
of Funkadelic. For both Smith and Clinton, there is no escaping the
grotesque, if only because those who prime and puff themselves up only
become more grotesque. We could go so far as to say that is the human
condition to be grotesque, since the human animal is the one that does
not fit in, the freak of nature who has no place in nature and is
capable of recombining natures products into hideous new forms. On
Grotesque, Smith has mastered his anticlerical methodology. The songs
are tales, but tales halftold. The words are fragmentary, as if they
have come to us via an unreliable transmission that keeps cutting out.
Viewpoints are garbled; ontological distinctions (between author, text
and character) are confused, fractured. It is impossible to
definitively sort out the narrators words from direct speech. The
tracks are palimpsests, badly recorded in a deliberate refusal of the
coffee table aesthetic Smith decides on the cryptic sleeve notes. The
process of recording is not airbrushed out but foregrounded, surface
hiss and illegible cassette noise brandished like improvised stitching
on some Hammer Frankenstein monster. Impression of J Temperance was
typical: a story in the hovercraft style in which a dog breeders
hideous replica (brown sockets . Purple eyes fed with rubbish from
disposal barges ) haunts Manchester. This is a Weird tale, but one
subjected to modernist techniques of compression and collage. The
result is so elliptical that it is as if the text  partobliterated by
silt, mildew and algae has been fished out of the Manchester ship
canal (which Hanley's bass sounds like it is dredging). The sound on
Grotesque is a seemingly impossible combination of the shambolic and
the disciplined, the ceberbralliterary and the idioticphysical. The
obvious parallel was The Birthday Party. In both groups, an implacable
bass holds together a leering, lurching schizophrenic body whose
disparate elements strain like distended, diseased viscera against a
pustules and pockridden skin (a spotty exterior hides a spotty
interior). Both The Fall and The Birthday Party reached for Pulp
Horror imagery rescued from the white trash can as an analogue and
inspiration for their perverse return to rock and roll (cf also The
Cramps). The annihilation that fired them was a rejection of a Pop
that they saw as self-consciously sophisticated, conspicuously
cosmopolitan, a Pop which implied that the arty could only be attained
at the expense of brute physical impact. Their response was to
hyperbolically emphasise crude atavism, to embrace the unschooled and
the primitivist. The Birthday Partys fascination was with the American
junkonscious, the mountain of semiotic/ narcotic trash lurking in the
hindbrain of a world population hooked on Americas myths of abjection
and omnipotence. The Birthday Party revelled in this fantastic
Americana, using it as a way of cancelling an Australian identity that
they in any case experienced as empty, devoid of any distinguishing
features. Smiths r and r citations functioned differently, precisely
as a means of reinforcing his Englishness and his own ambivalent
attitude towards it. The rockabilly references are almost like What
If? exercises. What if rock and roll had emerged from the industrial
heartlands of England rather than the Mississippi Delta? The
rockabilly on Container Drivers or Fiery Jack is slowed by meat pies
and gravy, its dreams of escape fatally poisoned by pints of bitter
and cups of greasy spoon tea. It is rock and roll as Working Mens Club
cabaret, performed by a failed Gene Vincent imitator in Prestwich. The
'What if?' speculations fail. Rock and roll needed the endless open
highways; it could never have begun in Britain's snarled up ring roads
and claustrophobic conurbations. For the Smith of Grotesque,
homesickness is a pathology. (In the interview on the 1983 Perverted
by Language video, Smith claims that being away from England literally
made him sick.) There is little to recommend the country which he can
never permanently leave; his relationship to it seems to be one of
wearied addiction. The fake jauntiness of English Scheme (complete
with protozoan Shuttleworth cheesy cabaret keyboard) is a squalid
postcard from somewhere noone would ever wish to be. Here and in C and
Cs Mithering, the US emerges as an alternative (in despair at the
class-ridden Britain of sixty hours and stone toilet back gardens, the
clever ones point their fingers at America), but there is a sense
that, no matter how far he travels, Smith will in the end be overcome
by a compulsion to return to his blighted homeland, which functions as
his pharmakon, his poison and remedy, sickness and cure. In the end he
is as afflicted by paralysis as Joyces Dubliners. On C n Cs Mithering
a rigor mortis snare drum gives this paralysis a sonic form. C n Cs
Mithering is an unstinting inventory of gripes and irritations worthy
of Tony Hancock at his most acerbic and disconsolate, a cheerless
survey of estates that stick up like stacks and, worse still, a
derisive dismissal of one of the supposed escape routes from drudgery:
the music business, denounced as corrupt, dull and stupid. The track
sounds, perhaps deliberately, like a white English version of rap
(here as elsewhere, The Fall are remarkable for producing equivalents
to, rather than facile imitations of, black American forms). Body a
Tentacle Mess Cthulhu as painted by John coulthardI dunno, reading
these quotes from the Klaxons, you can't help but think: if anyone
ever wanted to make a Spinal a-type movie about Indie Dance.... To be
fair, I haven't heard the album, but what I have heard puts me in mind
of beery bargain basement chances like EMF and Jesus Jones... And how
tired is this: 'All the dance bands relied on electronic programming
and drum machines. We wanted to take that and give it a human
element.' Because, naturally, what rave was deficient in was 'organic'
and 'human' elements. Pointless rhetorical questions... Just why is it
that indie bands think that transforming rave/ hip hop/ house/ r and b
into plodding pub rock bluster is either necessary or interesting? Why
is it unimaginable that they would say 'we want to remove the
vestigial human components and make a sound even more abstract,
impersonal and strange....'? I've finally seen Children of Men, on
DVD, after missing it at the cinema. Watching it last week I asked
myself, why is its rendering of apocalypse so contemporary? British
cinema, for the last thirty years as chronically sterile as the
issueless population in Children of Men, has not produced a version of
the apocalypse that is even remotely as well realised as this. You
would have to turn to television to the last Quatermass serial or to
Threads, almost certainly the most harrowing television programme ever
broadcast on British TV for a vision of British society in collapse
that is as compelling. Yet the comparison between Children of Men and
these two predecessors points to what is unique about the film; the
final Quatermass serial and Threads still belonged to Nuttall's bomb
culture, but the anxieties with which Children of Men deals have
nothing to do with nuclear war. Children of Men reinforces what few
would doubt, but which British cinema would seldom lead you to
suspect: the British landscape bristles with cinematic potential. It's
long since been evident that only someone outside the selfserving,
self-pitying low gene pool of British cinema is capable of realising
this potential, and Children of Men's director, Alfonso Cuarn, and
cinematographer, Emmanuel Lubezki, are both Mexican. Together they
have produced a portrait of Grim Britannia that is like a film
equivalent of the Burial LP (and the film's excellent soundtrack
features Burial's mentor and labelmate, Kode9). Lubezki's
cinematography is breathtaking. His photography seems to leech all
organic and naturalistic vitality from the images, leaving them a
washed-out greyblue. The effect is something like a visual equivalent
of the 'muting' about which robot speaks so eloquently in his latest
broadcast. As David Edelstein put it in an insightful review in New
York Magazine: ' The movie calls to mind an early description in
Cormac McCarthys overwrought but gripping postapocalypse novel The
Road of gray days like the onset of some cold glaucoma dimming away
the world.' The lighting is masterly: it as if the whole film takes
place in a permanent winter afternoon when even the sun is dying.
White smoke, its source unspecified, curls ubiquitously. Cuarn's trick
is to combine this despondent lyricism with a formal realism, achieved
through the expert use of handheld camera and long takes. Blood
shatters onto the camera lens and goes unwiped. The gunfire is as
oppressively tactile as it was in Saving Private Ryan. The
meticulously choreographed long takes technical feats of some
magnitude have justly been highly praised, and they are all the more
remarkable because they go beyond the familiar role of simulating
documentary realism to serve a political and artistic vision. This
brings us back, then, to my initial question, and I think that there
are three reasons that Children of Men is so contemporary. Firstly,
the film is dominated by the sense that the damage has been done. The
catastrophe is neither waiting down the road, nor has it already
happened. Rather, it is being lived through. There is no punctual
moment of disaster; the world doesn't end with a bang, it winks out,
unravels, gradually falls apart. What caused the catastrophe to occur,
who knows; its cause lies long in the past, so absolutely detached
from the present as to seem like the caprice of a malign being: a
negative miracle, a valediction which no penitence can ameliorate.
Such a blight can only be eased by an intervention that can no more be
anticipated than was the onset of the curse in the first place. Action
is pointless; only senseless hope makes sense. Superstition and
religion, the first resorts of the helpless, proliferate. Secondly,
Children of Men is a dystopia that is specific to late capitalism.
This isn't the familiar totalitarian scenario routinely trotted out in
cinematic dystopias (see, for example, V for Vendetta, which,
incidentally, compares badly with Children of Men on every point). If,
as Wendy Brown has so persuasively argued, neoliberalism and
neoconservatism can be made compatible only at the level of dreamwork,
then Children of Men renders this oneiric suturing as a nightmare. In
Children of Men, public space is abandoned, given over to uncollected
garbage and to stalking animals (one especially resonant scene takes
place inside a derelict school, through which a deer runs). But,
contrary to neo-liberal fantasy, there is no withering away of the
State, only a stripping back of the State to its core military and
police functions. In this world, as in ours, ultraauthoritarianism and
Capital are by no means incompatible: internment camps and franchise
coffee bars coexist. In P.D. James' novel, democracy is suspended and
the country is ruled over by a self-appointed Warden. Wisely, the film
downplay all this. For all that we know, the Britain of the film could
still be a democracy, and the authoritarian measures that are
everywhere in place could have been implemented within a political
structure that remains, notionally, democratic. The War on Terror has
prepared us for such a development: the normalisation of crisis
produces a situation in which the repealing of measures brought in to
deal with an emergency becomes unimaginable (when will the war be
over?) Democratic rights and freedoms (habeas corpus, free speech and
assembly) are suspended while democracy is still proclaimed. Children
of Men extrapolates rather than exaggerates. At a certain point,
realism flips over into delirium. Bad dream logic takes hold as you go
through the gates of the Refugee Camp at Bexhill. You pass through
buildings that were once public utilities into an indeterminate space
Hell as a Temporary Autonomous Zone in which laws, both juridical and
metaphysical, are suspended. A carnival of brutality is underway. By
now, you are homo safer so there's no point complaining about the
beatings. You could be anywhere, provided it's a warzone: Yugoslavia
in the 90s, Baghdad in the 00s, Palestine any time. Graffiti promises
an intifada, but the odds are overwhelmingly stacked in favour of the
State, which still packs the most powerful weapons. The third reason
that Children of Men works is because of its take on cultural crisis.
It's evident that the theme of sterility must be read metaphorically,
as the displacement of another kind of anxiety. (If the sterility were
to be taken literally, the film would be no more than a requiem for
what Lee Edelman calls 'reproductive futurism', entirely in line with
mainstream culture's pathos of fertility.) For me, this anxiety cries
out to be read in cultural terms, and the question the film poses is:
how long can a culture persist without the new? What happens if the
young are no longer capable of producing surprises? Children of Men
connects with the suspicion that the end has already come, the thought
that it could well be the case that the future harbours only
reiteration and repermutation. Could it be, that is to say, that there
are no breaks, no 'shocks of the new' to come? Such anxieties tend to
result in a bipolar oscillation: the 'weak messianic' hope that there
must be something new on the way lapses into the morose conviction
that nothing new can ever happen. The focus shifts from the Next Big
Thing to the last big thing how long ago did it happen and just how
big was it? The key scene in which the cultural theme is explicitly
broached comes when Clive Owen's character, Theo, visits a friend
Battersea power station, which is now some combination of government
building and private collection. Cultural treasures Michelangelo's
David, Picasso's Geurnica, Pink Floyd's inflatable pig are preserved
in a building that is itself a refurbished heritage artefact. This is
our only glimpse into the lives of the elite. The distinction between
their life and that of the lower orders is marked, as ever, by
differential access to enjoyment: they still eat their artfully
presented cuisine in the shadow of the Old Masters. Theo, asks the
question how all this can matter if there will be noone to see it? The
alibi can no longer be future generations, since there will be none.
The response is nihilistic hedonism: 'I try not to think about it'.
T.S. Eliot looms in the background of Children of Men, which, after
all, inherits the theme of sterility from The Waste Land. The film's
closing epigraph 'shantih shantih shantih' has more to do with Eliot's
fragmentary pieces than the Upanishads' peace. Perhaps it is possible
to see the concerns of another Eliot the Eliot of 'Tradition and the
Individual Talent' withered in Children of Man. It was in this essay
that Eliot, in anticipation of Bloom, described the reciprocal
relationship between the canonical and the new. The new defines itself
in response to what is already established; at the same time, the
established has to configure itself in response to the new. Eliot's
claim was that the exhaustion of the future does not even leave us
with the past. Tradition counts for nothing when it is no longer
contested and modified. A culture that is merely preserved is no
culture at all. The fate of Picasso's guernica once a howl of anguish
and outrage against Fascist atrocities, now a wall-hangings is
exemplary. Like its Battersea hanging space in the film, the painting
is accorded 'iconic' status only when it is deprived of any possible
function or context. A culture which takes place only in museums is
already exhausted. A culture of commemoration is a cemetry. No
cultural object can retain its power when there are no longer new eyes
to see it. My interview with Mordant Music is now up on the Fact
website. ... if you can make it to Hackney this weekend... Further
details here... Note that the venue has been changed to 90 Wallis
Road... For those who haven't seen them, there are good pieces on Jade
Goody at Antigram, Charlotte Street and the webley (see also the
response to this last at Foucault is Dead). Antigram's question is
wellposed: 'A millionaire lumpen prole gargoyle on the one hand, a
glamorous hollywood actress on the other: is this, then, what we
supposed to believe constitutes the class divide running down the
middle of this country?' Part of the displacement of the class
question in the culture is that class tensions can only appear in this
caricatured form. The freakshow exhibiting of Jade is all of a piece
with Channel 4's fascinatedrepelled depiction of the working class as
in need of makeovers, domestic training or education about diet (Ten
Years Younger/ How Clean is your House? / You are what you Eat). The
much-hyped Shameless, with its silly, overwrought stereotypes, strikes
me as part of this preface trend, actually. It goes without saying
that Goody's impotent acting out of class resentments confirms, rather
than challenges, the representational grid in which she is enmeshed.
The comparison between Goody and her defender Julie Burchill tells us
a great deal about how class relations and prospects have changed over
the last thirty years. Burchill benefited from an earlier version of
the ruling class fascination/ repulsion with proletariat; in her case,
the progression from self-taught intellectual Marxist firebrand to
proleforhire ('some of them can even write proper sentences, don't you
know') had its tragic dimensions, its disappointments and betrayals.
Yet Burchill's presence has always been about working class
intelligence, the very possibility of which Jade Goody's success has
implicitly denied. Three interesting posts on new Lacanian blow
Foucault is Dead about Celebrity Big Brother. The rather unedifying
furore provoked by cab this year presents a very depressing picture of
Britain in 2007. Initially, it was gratifying to see so many members
of the public complain about the treatment of ship Shetty. Yet, it
quickly became apparent that there was another jouissance in play
here: as Foucault is Dead correctly notes, the enjoyment of
castigating Jade, of anticipating the derision and humiliation she
will face once she leaves the house, involves, undoubtedly, a
classiest jouissance. Under the cover of defending a housemaid from
racism, the media and the public have indulged in a slew of class
hatred. Goody's behaviour in the house makes it clear that class is
about a sense of inferiority which cannon be ameliorated by the
acquisition of wealth (she is reputedly worth several million pounds).
Goody's role in the national pantomime since she rose to fame has been
to play the role of lumpen proletarian gargoyle: inarticulate, lacking
in basic general knowledge, prone to flying into ecstasies of rage
such as she subjected shitty to the other day. Such behaviour has been
alternately reviled and rewarded Goody's success was based on a wave
of sympathy which followed a similar monitoring when she appeared on
Big Brother the first time so it shouldn't be surprising if Goody is
confused about how to act. This is not to excuse Goody's actions but
her behaviour cannon be separated from the class impasse of British
society, which more than ever trap the working class in miserable
selfdenigration and low self-confidence (even if those traits are
concealed behind boorish bravado and conspicuous hedonism). While
Goody and her compatriots have certainly bullied Shetty, I agree with
Foucault is Dead that the treatment of the actress has not been
straightforwardly racist. There have been racist remarks, but the
central dynamic appears to be resentment and jealousy rather than
racial hatred. There are certain structural similarities with racism
in that the housemaster who have attacked shitty have done so on the
basis of fantasies about the enjoyment of the other: Shetty, for
instance, is held to have been given privileged treatment by Big
Brother. It is pleasing that the debate around the programme has
concerned whether or not racism has happened rather than whether
racism is acceptable or not. But it is worth thinking about why
postmodern media dominates racism (at the level of discourse; it has,
of course, done little to tackle racism and a structural problem) but
is worryingly silent about class. Incidentally, those looking forward
to the ending of Jade's career are sure to be disappointed. The soap
opera rhythm of postmodern media will not allow it. The routine is now
familiar: a rash of cancelled contracts, period of silence, followed
by triumphant, contrite, return. There is no better illustration of
American cultural entropy, of the sense that things have finished but
they continue to grind on, than Saddam's execution. The scene is
appalling, of course, in the way that all executions must be: the
contrast between the quotidian dreariness of the surroundings and the
terrible metaphysical threshold over which the executed individual
must pass; the squalid brutality of the act of premeditated killing,
which remains brutal and squalid no matter how atrocious the crimes of
the condemned were. Films of live death are attempts to screen the
Real, but, inevitably, the Real of death cannon be captured. What we
are left with, instead, is another reality TV moment, recorded on
mobile phone videocamera and distributed by YouTube. It begins with
Shock and Awe and ends in Snuff... The significance of the sounds and
images of Saddam's execution resides in what is absent from them:
namely, any sense of ceremony. The images confirm the impression that,
far from being the gleaming citadel of a nascent democracy (even Bush
has given up on that pretence) Iraq is given over to casual atrocity,
lynching and civil disorder. The execution is a reminder that the
american-led invasion of Iraq has singularly failed to produce any
images that possess Symbolic efficacy. There is very far from being
any equivalent of the flagraising at Iwo Jima: an image powerful
enough to itself constitute an incorporeal transformation. The scenes
of Saddam's statue being felled, all too obviously staged, played like
a weak echo of similar, more powerful, scenes at the close of the Cold
War. The failure of image management is no trivial matter. We might go
so far as to say that this alone indicates the final failure of the
neo-conservative project, which, after all, was supposed to be about
generating popular images and myths. No image which the US
militaryindustrialentertainment complex has produced in the last half
decade can compare even remotely with the TV pictures of the twin
towers collapsing, which remain by some distance the most significant
semiotic event of the century. Instead of countering 9/11, indeed, the
images of US bombing raids on Afghanistan and Iraq seemed to belong to
the same symbolic moment. Rather than some successfully stage-managed
US photograph, it is the improvised Snuff of Abu grain which has come
to represent the campaign in Iraq. Saddam's execution may have been
intended as a moment of closure, but it signalled quite the opposite:
the horrors continue. The images of Saddam being taunted by hooded
figures horribly rhyme with the Abu grain pictures. With Saddam, it is
as if the object of the Americans' desire receded every time they
closed in upon it. The first time they caught him, a bewildered old
man cowering in a hole in the ground, the very radicality of the
sublimation counted against the Americans perhaps even more than
against Saddam himself: surely this could not be the personification
of Evil that the war had been waged against? In this case, Saddam was
too dehumanised to serve as the proper object of avenging American
justice. But the execution produced the opposite effect: it did what
the spectacle of executions cannon fail to, it humanise Saddam, all
the more effectively because of his stoic demeanour in the face of the
taunts of his tormentors. The discussion of postapocalypse culture
continues, with contributions from Jodi . Owen , Larval Subjects and
Rough Theory. Jodi is sceptical about my claim that apocalyptic dread
has receded from the popular unconscious. This may well be a
difference between the UK and the US, although, as far as I am
concerned, none of the examples Jodi provides convincingly make the
case: as Jodi herself concedes, apocalypse is not about apocalypse in
the relevant sense, while the forthcoming Omega Man is itself a remake
of a film from an earlier in my view much more genuinely
apocalypsefixated era. (Interestingly, incidentally, The Omega Man was
already a remake of the 1964 The Last Man on Earth, starring Vincent
Price.) That leaves Children of Men, which may well be apocalyptic
but, well, one radioactive swallow does not a nuclear winter make.
Jodi is right that there is no British equivalent to the religious
apocalypticism that features so prominently in American cultural life
but this is less apocalyptic dread than apocalyptic ecstasy, a fevered
anticipation of the Rapture. The kind of apocalyptic dread I am
referring to was in any case far too pervasive to be reduced to
particular cultural artefacts; nor was it confined to religious
groups. There were, of course, innumerable films, novels and songs
which explicitly dealt with apocalypse of one kind or another, but the
dread was so widespread, so deeprooted, that it amounted to a psychic
climate. The whole of post-punk was an expression of this climate,
which in part accounts for the appeal to post-punk of Ballard, whose
Atrocity Exhibition remains the best primer on Cold War
psychopathology. Jeff Nuttall's indispensable Bomb Culture went so far
as to claim that the impulse behind postwar popular culture in its
entirety was the virtual presence of nuclear war. During the 60s, is
and 80s, dreams about nuclear annihilation were such a nightly routine
that they were deemed unworthy of comment. I remember a period of a
few years as a child when I would ritualistically watch the first few
minutes of the news just to check that a nuclear war was not imminent.
Such dread was not confined to the anxious or the neurotic; it was
part of the background noise of the culture. It may well be the case
that this type of dread remains a feature of everyday life in the USA;
I think I can say with some confidence that it no longer is the case
here. In fact, if you describe the level of fear that was taken for
granted in the Cold War to British teenagers, they are likely to look
at you askance. Certainly, Sinthome's remarks in particular, his claim
that 'apocalyptic fantasies' are 'omnipresent' in American culture
suggest that apocalypse has retained its hold on the American
unconscious. The key passage in Sinthome's post is the following,
where, in an echo of similar claims by Fredric Jameson, he makes the
case that apocalyptic fantasies mask disavowed utopian impulses:
Against, or perhaps alongside, Sinthome's 'hope that apocalyptic
fantasies manifest a desire for something other than their explicit
content', N peppered at Rough Theory suggests that 'we can understand
Adornos work as an attempt to reflect seriously ... on the possibility
that certain mass movements might genuinely desire to achieve what
their fantasies express: destruction and death.' A complementary
analysis might emphasise the fantasy of survivability, as Christopher
latch did in The Minimal Self: psychic Survival in Troubled Times, a
book which seems in many respects to be a relic of the final phase of
the Cold War. Lasch's claim was that, in the face of neo-liberal
economic 'reform' and multiple threats of catastrophe ecological,
military the self had been stripped down into a protective core.
Anything beyond brute survival had become an extravagance. This
'minimal self' makes it beyond the Cold War to the end of history, and
I wonder if the popular cultural examples ithome gives aren't better
read as survivalist, rather than apocalyptic, fantasies: Independence
Day and Armageddon, for instance, strike me as quintessentially
nineties films in which the emphasis is not upon the apocalypse but on
the very quick restitution of 'ordinary' life. In both, the
destruction by Special Effects of a few cities is speedily succeeded
by the muscular and heroic defence of the soon resumed American way of
life, a fantasy which ominously foreshadowed the Shock and Awe
response to 9/11. 'We should acknowledge that our world is doomed,
that it has no future;' Dominic writes in a fascinating post, 'but
also that it is not the only possible world, that other worlds have
been and will be.' But if it is easier to imagine the end of the world
than the end of capitalism, then it is precisely the thinkability of
different worlds succeeding this one that is at issue. In terms of the
current political imaginary, there is only this world, then nothing...
Or there are n number of new worlds, but each is a different rendering
of capitalism: none would be an alternative to capitalism. Capitalism
would be the equivalent of Alvin Plantinga's transworld depravity:
that which must occur in any possible world. China or Dubai already
give us glimpses of other possible capitalist worlds, establishing,
incidentally, that while there is no parliamentary democracy without
capitalism, it is perfectly possible for there to be a capitalism
without democracy. In many ways, however, we have ceased to imagine
the end of the world just as surely as we have lost our ability to
imagine the end of capitalism. Oddly, apocalyptic dread so omnipresent
during the Cold War seems to have been extirpate from the popular
unconscious. The possibility of environmental catastrophe may well be
entertained as a rational hypothesis, but it does not dominate our
collective dreams in the way that the threat of nuclear annihilation
once did. Perhaps it is necessary to change the terms of the formula.
If it is increasingly difficult to imagine alternatives to capitalism,
that is because the world has already ended. In this condition of more
ontologica, the world goes on, but nothing new can ever happen; what
remains is a mechanical permutation through options that have already
been fixed. Philip K Dick was of course the great poet of the
intuition that the world had already ended in this sense. rubik and A
scanner Darkly are seen through the eyes of the (existentially or
physically) dead. The deteriorating world of rubik is indeed a
'glimpse [into] the breakdown and dissolution back into nothingness',
that Jodi put described in the original post which in part prompted
Dominic's reflections. In A Scanner Darkly, death is defined in terms
of an inability to act, a terrible stasis: "That's what it means to
die, to not be able to stop looking at whatever's in front of you. ...
You can only accept what's put there as it is." What Dominic points to
is a situation that is that is even more dire, where it is perfectly
possible to act, but any action is now irrelevant. The time to act was
in the past; the damage is done; all we can do is await consequences
which can no longer be averted: Here, then, is one sense in which we
are ghosts, impotently tilting at a world we can no longer affect.
It's worth pausing here to reflect that, in the debates over climate
change, it is no longer the apocalyptic potential of current trends
that is disputed; what is doubted is whether any effective action
could be taken to deal with it. Questioned about whether they will
give up flying in order to combat climate change, people will often
respond that there is no point, because others will continue to fly:
thus runs the fatalism of capitalist realism. If Dominic is correct,
of course, then they are not fatalistic enough. Jodi's intuition that
the 'world has already ended, and we are persisting in its degrading
memory' serves as an apt epigraph for postmodernism (=late
capitalism). The 'China brands' problem 'who can name a Chinese
brand?' may well be another symptom of this secret apocalypse. Even
China's massive transformation is not enough to change the basic
palette of capitalism. All that remains is cloning and recombination.
Christopher Nolan's The Prestige is an enthralling study of doubles,
doubling and duplicity. Its twinned themes are obsession and the
Secret: the Secret as objeta, that which inspires, but which can never
satisfy, obsession. The Prestige is set in the 1890s, when a garlic
age was being awakened to the power of electricity, and its
sensibility belongs to an older era of simulacra; one in which,
instead of seeking to unmask illusion, audiences succumbed to its
power. The film is about stage magic, and its most insistent refrain
is 'are you watching closely?' But in the theatre, it was not possible
to watch too closely; moreover, as The Prestige reminds us, the
audience of magic willingly submits to misdirection in order to be
beguiled. The 1890s was perhaps the most Gothic decade ever: Dracula,
The Picture of Dorian Gray and The Time Machine, not to mention Heart
of Darkness and The Interpretation of Dreams, were all written between
1890 and 1899. The film has a lovingly cultivated whiff of fin de
siecle elysian Scientific Romance, with Nikola tessa (David Bowie, )
the key in more than one sense to the plot's intrigues. As an
examination of duplicity and the willing subordination to illusion,
The Prestige is of course about the power of film and fiction to cast
spells. Its own cultivation depends upon keeping the question of its
own generic status open: are we watching a simulation of 1890s
narrative realism or have we as some idb comments complained without
irony been 'conned' into watching an SF film? The film's final irony
concerns the fact that, to function as magic, genuine science must
appear as an illusion. The film takes its title from Victorian stage
magical terminology, which divided the trick into three stages: the
Pledge, in which an ordinary object is presented, the Turn, in which
the object disappears or is transformed, and the Prestige, in which
the object returns. Behind the empirical object, however, is the
sublime object which makes the Prestige possible: the Secret. The
Secret is the stage magician's holy grail what the two rival magicians
Borden (Christian Bale) and anger (Hugh Jackman) are prepared to
steal, kill and destroy themselves in order to possess. Professional
betterment and wealth may be the ostensible goals driving Borden and
Angier, but it is the sublime allure of the Secret which draws them to
their doom. The film warns us repeatedly that the Secret cannon be
possessed. The Secret is Nothing, and enjoyment is inherently
tantalising. Before we are privy to it, the Secret is only a
mysterious nullity, a black box. But, once it is revealed, the Secret
immediately devolves into mere facts, empirical happenstance, deprived
of that 'extra something' which was its sublime substance. Concealment
fascinates; revelation disappoints. Naturally, this holds for the
Secrets of fiction and the film the muffins and monotones that are the
objectcauses of the reader's and viewer's desire as much as for the
Secrets of magic. As soon as the Secret is exposed, the trick no
longer interests the audience. Yet the magician who has designed the
trick does not possess the Secret; he only knows the facts. What makes
him an artist (the conjuror of an illusion) as well as an artisan (the
creator of machines) is his capacity for convening/ concealing the
Secret for/ from an Other. The Secret exists in the reciprocal
interplay of the audience's enjoyment and that of the illusionist. The
audience's enjoyment derives from its state of puzzlement together
with its awareness that there is a subject who knows; in order to
preserve this enjoyment, the audience must not acquire knowledge for
itself. The illusionist's enjoyment, as anger makes clear in his final
speech, resides in his seeing the entranced face of the Other in other
words, it consists in his enjoyment of the other's enjoyment, and to
preserve his enjoyment, the illusionist cannon disclose his Secret.
While the Secret is kept, anger tells Borden, it transforms the
universe from a grubby charnel house governed by logical and factual
enchantments into a unpredictable place glowing with mystery and
wonder. In this sense, the Secret is a miracle, the means by which the
universe becomes more than what it is ... Is the second Fall post
cursed? I've fallen victim to some debilitating viral thing over the
past few days. I hope to be back before too long. Meanwhile, in the
year that another film version of the Strugatskys' Roadside Picnic is
promised, Ballardian's Simon Sellars draws my attention to this....
"Anomalous zones pose great danger to stalkers. Getting into an
anomalous zone nearly always results in instant death. There is only
one way to oppose such zones, that is to avoid them! A problem here is
to detect an anomalous zone, for the majority of them are invisible
and can be detected with special devices or by inconspicuous
indications." Well, Jameson did refer to the Zone as an 'ontological
Chernobyl'....modus argues that 'if music didn't exactly die in 2006,
it certainly felt sidelined, jilted, demoted, decentred, dethroned as
the exemplary creative activity, the most vibrant subculture.' That is
one reason why Burial has to be the album of 2006, and tautology the
year's dominant theme. Burial was a flashback to collective dreams to
dreams of collectivity in the age of MySpace. The most significant
changes this year were not in pop's content whose rate of change
continues to sclerotically slow but in its distribution. modus is
right that in 2006 space and couture eclipsed Old Media as pop's most
important means of distribution. However, both remain parasitic upon
Old Media (as the Sandi Thom scam demonstrates, stories about web
activity have been more important than any actual debased success) and
there is no evidence yet that the net can generate pop events of its
own. In part that is because Old Media broadcast time was
simultaneous, punctual; New Media time is distributed, fragmented: the
time of consumer preference. The oedipus has displaced Pop (as)
Spectacle. Two examples from modus Bowie's appearance on 'Extras' and
the end of Top of the Pops reinforce the impression that celebreality
has subsumed pop. To this, I would add channelled winning Celebrity
Big Brother. In each case, we see the triumph of the celebreality
principle over fantasy, glamour and alterity. From playing the alien
on TOTP to playing a banal yet unbelievable version of himself in
'Extras', Bowie's trajectory is emblematic. The second series of
'Extras', in fact, with its unthreatening, matey star cameos, its one-
dimensional characters as unconvincing and stereotyped as those in the
embedded sitcom it mocked, was horribly symptomatic of everything bad
about popular culture in 2006. Pop has achieved ubiquity at the cost
of losing vibrancy and exclusivity. In the most significant modes of
communication in late capitalism, pop has become a kind of semiotic
glue, functioning exactly in the way that chin argues that sound
operates in film, producing a 'consistencyeffect', an illusion of
coherence. Advertising has so energetically merged with pop that it is
scarcely possible to imagine what it would be like without it. In any
case, I've posted below my top 10 LPs and singles of the year. There
are no surprises, and since there seems little point repeating what
I've already said, I've only commented on those releases about which I
haven't previously written. After Burial, the order is somewhat
arbitrary and mooddependent. Before the list proper, two albums that
are replaceable or which I, at least, could not place are The
Caretaker's Theoretically pure anterograde amnesia and Scott Walker's
The Drift. Like Simon and Momus, I found myself admiring The Drift
without loving it. The obstacle here isn't its abstraction or its
bleakness so much as Walker's voice, which I found unwieldy and
stilted. No less abstract or bleak, but far more subtly seductive, The
Caretaker's album is in many ways the most important of the year; an
intervention that was as much theoretical as sonic. In an excellent
review for Grooves magazine, Alan Harrison claims that 'the only
comparisons within reach are maybe the horrifying i960 symphonies of
Krzysztof Penderecki, or the sepulchral doom of boren Und Der Club Of
Gore.' Theoretically pure anterograde amnesia is like being unplugged
from the Matrix and finding oneself in a forbidding and inexplicable
present. In the best possible way, the 6 CD set is no longer music; it
is an atmospheregeneration kit, and perhaps there is a future for pop
in this parasonic, spectral space... LPs 1. Burial Burial 2. So This
is Goodbye  Junior BoysLittle to add to what I've previously written
on these, but here's what I said in the Fact end of year roundup. 3.
White Bread, Black Beer  Scritti Politti 4. Stone Cold Ohio  Little
Axe 5. Fundamental Pet Shop boys times as cavernous aftertherave
melancholic as Burial, the massively underrated, Fundamental may well
be not only the PSBs' best LP, but Trevor Horn's too. Fundamental has
all the affective nuance that Horn's previous productions which at
their best were magnificent follies dispensed with. 6. A Girl Like Me
RihannaNoone but me rates this, but it is a fine, bittersweet summer
LP, full of hookheavy pop songs (including two of the year's best
singles). 7. Memories of the Future kode and space-age 8. Tiny Colour
Movies  John fox 9. Dead Air  Mordant MusicLook out for my interview
with Mordant Music, appearing very soon. 10. The Owls Map melbury Poly
Singles 1. SOS hanna 2. Boom Boom Bap  Scritti Politti 3. Aint No
Other Man  Christina aguilar 4. Me & U cassie backing track like
Sylvian/ Sakamoto spliced with computer error alerts, and a vocal
whose catatonic flatness was a refreshing contrast to R and B's
default vocal acrobatics. 5. Unfaithful hanna 6. setback  Justin
TimberlakeJust as I had finally given up on Timbaland, he returns from
the grave with the Timberlake and hurtado albums, although there was
nothing on FutureSex/LoveSounds which matched the unconsummated,
gibbering tension of 'SexyBack'. 7. Cant Wait  Johnny Dark 8. man-
eater  Nellie hurtado 9. London Bridge FergieFabulously sleazy, almost
stones for her part in 'Where is the Love?' 10. Say I  Christina
miliutin a just world, milan would have achieved the full spectrum
dominance beyond enjoys. Based around a dreamy Miracles' string
sample, 'Say I' effortlessly outdoor any of Ms Knowles' solo efforts,
yet beyond is all-conquering while milan was dropped by her record
company. Rereleases/ repackaged Learning to Cope with Cowardice Mark
Stewart and the MaffiaHead Soundcrash Tac>Head Ike Yard 198082
Collected diachronic in a thenfuturistic sense, Ike Yard sound
outoftime, like the preLaddish New Order stunned into an even deeper
catatonia, like an unsuspected cross between steamatic at its most
impersonal and ACR's funk at its most sombre, like a terse and tense
distillation of EBM's best moments before they even happened. Live
Scritti Politti I stressed the uncanniness of Green's voice in my
pieces on White Bread, Black Beer, and that sense of uncanniness is
doubled in the live context. The discrepancy between the synthetic
honey of Green's voice so eerie, ethereal and incorporated and an
actual physical body is an odd experience indeed, perfectly making
laden Dolar's point that no voice can ever be definitively 'traced
back' to a body.  Not pop... but my disappointment of the year was Dr
Who. The misgivings I had managed to suppress in the first series
became too powerful to overlook, so that by the end of the second
series, I was no longer watching. I did tune into the Christmas
special, but it confirmed all my prejudices. A plot that was a rerun
of last year's Christmas episode, the yowling Catherine Tate, Tennant
all lachrymose, the appalling music which seems to be getting louder
by the episode it was all very polo perfunctory. Whereas the old Dr
Who would plunder classical sources and pulp them, the new Dr Who
takes the middlebrook route of pursuing 'psychological depth'. The
single biggest indictment of the new Dr Who, though, is its lack of
any memorable monsters. In two series, there is not one monster that
even remotely ranks with the cybermen or the daleks... I'm glad that
Dr Who is on TV, but, really, it could easily be so much better...
Next: The Fall post, part 2.... really... Dickens says, The cold
within him froze his old features and stiffened his gait, and he also
suffers from tremors. But for me the most telling symptom is the
ghosts, ... Sometimes a disappearance can be more haunting than an
apparition. Nowhere is this clearer than in Picnic at Hanging Rock,
which I watched again for the first time in a while last week. Picnic
at Hanging Rock is the exemplary study of disapparition in cinema I
know of no other major film which deals with unexplained
disappearance. One of the fascinating aspects of Picnic at Hanging
Rock is the way in which it generates 'realityeffects'. Although Joan
Lindsay's novel was entirely fictionalised, it was widely , though
mistakenly, believed to be based on a true story. Why did this happen?
The film's trick involved retelling the classic Fairy story young
women abducted into an Other world using the conventions of realism.
One of these conventions was giving the events or convents a precise
date. An opening caption tells us that the three women disappeared on
February 14th, 1900. 1900, significantly, is the year which Freud
wanted The Interpretation of Dreams dated (this dating is, famously,
fictional: Freud's text was actually published in 1899, but he wanted
it to bear a more epochal date). But Picnic at Hanging Rock is not set
in our 1900, for February with fell on a Wednesday, not a Saturday.
Nevertheless, the use of a date (albeit a wrong date) would have been
sufficient in itself to induce a 'realityeffect'. Above all else,
though, the illusion of reality is produced by the lack of any
solution to the mystery the film presents: what happened to the
missing girls? As is well known, in her original manuscript, Joan
Lindsay provided a solution of sorts to the enigma, in a concluding
chapter that her publishers encouraged her to excise from the
published version of the novel. (This 'Chapter Eighteen' was published
separately, as The Secret of Hanging Rock.) The effect that this
excision produced can be linked to the lesson Lacan draws from the
story about the painters deixis and Parrhasios. Zeuxius painted a
bunch of grapes so convincing that birds attempted to eat them.
Parrhasios, meanwhile, painted a curtain, which Zeuxius asked him to
pull aside to reveal what he had painted. The removal of the last
explanatory chapter transformed Picnic at Hanging Rock into the
fictional analogue of Parhassios' painting. It became a veil, an
enigma whose very irresolution produced the illusion that there must
be something behind the curtain of fictionality. A realist fiction
becomes a fiction that screens the Real; i.e. which reveals the Real
as an absence, as something that can only be encountered indirectly,
via intermediaries. The central event in Hanging Rock is this
'Nothing' disrupting into the consensual hallucination of everyday
empirical reality, leaving only a gap, a puncture wound: Nothing
happens. In passing, it's worth remarking that the film strikingly
brings out the inherent Surrealism of the colonial project. The
boarding school looks like some Magritte excrescence. The elegantly
stifling absurdity of the clothes, architecture and rituals, imported
into a landscape whose very scale temporal as well as spatial mocks
them, appear not only geographically, but ontologically out of place,
an invasion from another world. Hanging Rock broods like one of
dominguez or Ernst's decalcomania spinal landscapes; the incursion of
an unassimilable Deep Time, a time that preceded the arrival of human
beings by many millennia ('Waiting a million years, just for us').
Stefan gullet persuasively argues that Hanging Rock stands in for 'Das
Ding', the Freudian Thing, that which resists all attempts at
symbolization. The rock is spatially as well as temporally anomalous.
It can only be seen in fragments, its labyrinthine spaces as
intensively treacherous as those of another alien picnic site,
Tarkovsky's Zone. The rock is effectively navigable only by the
attaining of a delirium state: like Ballard's The Drowned World
another glimpse into Deep Time the film is a study in solar trance.
With time (and narrative) held in an aching, languid suspension, a
kind of oneiric fatalism holds sway.... Miranda (in a nearparaphrase
of Poe): What we see and what we seem are but a dream, a dream within
a dream. Marion: A surprising number of human beings are without
purpose, though it is probable that they are performing some function
unknown to themselves. Miranda: Everything begins and ends at the
exactly right time and place. George kocinski writes: Helen Duncan was
accused of being a fraudulent mediumThey burst into a seance over a
over in Portsmouth,over a chemists shop length of ectoplasm or a suit
of cheeseclothWas grabbed but it got swathe Witchcraft Act 1735 was
used to give her 9 month'sjailThe vibrations will live on To Dublin,
then, where last week the National College of Art and Design held a
one-day symposium on hauntology. Highlights for me included Susan
MacWilliam, who talked about a series of films and installations
devoted to seances, telepathy and mediumship. Her piece, 'The Last
Person', about Helen Duncan, the last person to be tried under the
British witchcraft act, was impressively disgusting in its rendering
of the phasic physicality of ectoplasmchanneling. Brian Dillon, who
amongst many other things is the UK editor of the excellent Cabinet
magazine, spoke about a series of spaces to which he is compelled to
keep returning, either actually or virtually: Dungeness, Herne Bay,
Estonia. Brian's fixation on these 'old haunts' was brokered by
artists: tacit Dean, who famously filmed the sound mirrors at
Dungeness (to which Kode 9 and I made a pilgrimage a couple of years
ago), and Jeremy Millar, who, after learning from Dean that Marcel
Duchamp had visited Herne Bay while working on the Large Glass, made a
film speculating on what the inherently dadaists encounter between the
young artist and the decaying Kent seaside town might have involved.
(See Millar's own account of the film here...) Millar also visited
Estonia, searching for the locations out of which tarkovsky conjured
the Zone in Stalker. Millar's quest, inevitably, was met with some
frustration, since much of the Zone was constructed on a set in
Moscow. Afterwards, Brian and I talk about how Stalker was haunted by
absences: the form the film currently takes was the result of the
first print of the film decaying; a wholly different version using the
special effects so conspicuously lacking in the version that was
released had originally been shot. In addition, Tarkovsky had always
to second guess the cuts that the censor would make. Tarkovsky made
his films anticipating that they would be cut, but he could never be
sure which sections would be lost. Dungeness, which resembles the
Suffolk coast near where I live now, is already reminiscent of the
Zone: the rotting huts and shacks, the WWII relics, the brooding power
station (as used in the Dr Who story The Claws of axis in 1971 and I
note in passing that one of the things that is missing from the new Dr
Who is any exploration of this kind of scurf space), the strange
Picabialike machines left on the beach like detritus abandoned by a
departed civilization whose intentions are now opaque to us ... For
the citizens of industrialized societies, there is a certain
universality of the Zone. Most of us will have been captivated at some
time by spaces dominated by derelict factories, burned-out vehicles
and military/industrial technology wreathed in resurgent greenery.
Such spaces strike a deeply resonant chord with the industrialized
unconscious; indeed, they might be an image of that unconscious
itself. In any case, Brian's presentation made me reflect that there
is a room for a kind of tautological travel writing; or that the best
kind of travel writing is already hauntological, already a study of
the power of place as a recording system (cf Lethbridge, or Kneale's
The Stone Tape). It also made me think, again, about the relationship
of tautology to place (one of the meanings of 'haunt' being 'a place',
of course); and fantasise, again, about tautological events which
would take place in derelict or semi-derelict spaces. I concentrated
on sound, talking, as you would expect, about Burial, Little Axe,
Ghost Box, Mordant Music and the Caretaker. My claim was that, in
hauntology, there is the possibility of a positive alternative to
postmodernity. Against the disavowed revivalism of postmodernity's
'nostalgia mode', there are the spectres of lost futures. The 'spectre
that haunted Europe' was not, after all, a returning revenant, but the
avtar of the new, which could only be declared to never have arrived
when Communism's malevolent doppelganger, Stalinism, disintegrated at
the end of the eighties. A decade ago, it was possible to line up
rave, jungle, techno and hip hop as alternatives to postmodernity and
its discourses. Then, the language of recombination, rather than of
spectrality, seemed most appropriate to deal with sampling. But now
tautology is revealed as belonging to the same median band as
cyberpunk, and both can be opposed to the linear, progressive future
that SF Capital projected. As kodak observes in 'Further
Considerations on Afrofuturism': The 'founding trauma' of the Black
Atlantic involved the shattering of linear time: Apocalypse now (and
forever). X marks the spot where identity was permanently erased; what
is left is the absence, the memory loss, that is constitutive of Black
atlanta subjectivity as such. (Butler's Kindred remains one of the
most powerful explorations of the bind whereby, for the modern Black
Atlantean, wishing away slavery means wishing away oneself.) The ghost
embodies dyschronia (it is the apparition of his father's spectre, of
course, which causes Hamlet to declare that the 'time is out of
joint'), even as it calls for revenge, reparation, for things to be
set right (and for its raison d'etre to disappear). Yet tautology must
be about the enjoyment of dyschronia, about the unwillingness to set
time back into joint. Ten years ago, the most apt image of dyschronia
in either its traumatic or its ecstatic modes, and these are not
always explicable would have been the future invading the past.
Perhaps now, though, dyschronia is most strikingly encountered in the
persistent traces of that which has never arrived, but which will
never go away. I ended with a discussion of The Caretaker, whom I
still believe offers the most acute diagnosis of postmodernity as
pathology. In lighting upon 'theoretically pure anterograde amnesia'
as the name for our cultural condition, The Caretaker makes us realise
that our problem is the inability to make new memories. Who would have
suspected that nostalgia and amnesia were twinned in this way? But
what is the nostalgia mode if not an amnesia of the present (and
future)? (Amnesia of the present, naturally, is the complement to
hauntology's nostalgia for the future.) We are the ghosts, now, in the
Caretaker's haunted ballroom; the melodic traces of familiar tunes are
the fragments of the past to which we cleave in a hostile, abstract
present that is unintelligible, unmappable. At this point, we must
mention V VM's other 2006 megaproject of mourning, The Death of Rave
(available for download here): rave as revenant, reduced to
reverberations. The Death of Rave can be heard as a supplement to the
Burial album; another seance of the underground, another burned-out
synaptic journey into rave's lost Eternal Now, another delving the
dank dilapidation of its deserted spaces... The temporality of The
Death of Rave is that of the flashback, the irruption of a lost future
(from the nearpast) into the present...  Dungeness features amongst
several other Zone analogues on the tremendous Nothing to see here
site (as recently linked to by Owen. Speaking of space, architecture
and related matters, I've been meaning for some time to link to
another brilliant interview at Ballardian, this time with Geoff manage
of BLDNGBLOG. It may surprise people that I agree with Geoff about
Crash, which I found difficult to read and incredibly obvious after
the far superior Atrocity Exhibition. I also agree that 'Id like to
see Steven Spielberg direct The Drowned World  as long as he didnt add
any kids to the screenplay'. Surely, now is the time for an adaptation
of The Drowned World; but this must be set in London. Whatever the
merits of the adaptations of Crash, The Atrocity Exhibition and the
upcoming High Rise, I've been disappointed that none were set in
London. (Basic Instinct 2 is the best version yet of a palladian
London.) Public Domain, Inc. is pleased to announce the call for
PERFORATIONS 29.Guest editor for this issue will be Dr. Thomas Mical,
Carleton UniversitySchool of Architecture. As usual with perforations,
deadlines are somewhat fluid but please notifyThomas mica or Robert
chatham of your intent by February 15 2007 in order be included in the
release notification. Article length is at your discretion.
Experimental hypertext are especiallywelcome. Other forms of media,
video, etc., may have length restrictions,please cc media editor Chea
Prince or technical editor, Jim Demmers.If you have any questions
please query one of the editors. Guest Editor: Dr. Thomas mica
thomasmical@carleton.ca Senior Editor:Robert Cheathamzeug@pd.org
Technical Editor Jim DemmersJdemmers@pd.org Media Editor: Chea
PrinceChea@pd.org Hauntologies, or Spectral SpaceCall for Submissions
This issue of Perforations asks for informed speculations in
art,literature, architecture, and aesthetics concerning the ethereal
otherswhich are never quite present or absent : including uncanny
presencesoutside the frame of representation, anamorphic blurs of
concepts or images;leaking, stained, or spectral spaces, disappearing
figures or solubleidentities; of all that sometimes works like
miasmas, pneumas, and vapors;and all possible manifestations of
spectres (real or imaginary). Thisincludes speculative covenants of
repetitions of all sort includingcatastrophic trauma (the spectral
delays/deferrals of Freudian'nachtraglichkeit') as well as any
embedding of notions of 'eternalreturn,' as having tautological
portent for communities and thought tocome. In its entirety, the issue
seeks to selectively map an ephemeral cartography(a hauntotopography)
of the range of barely discernible ghosts, these"ontological specks"
or "pathological kernels", that traverse theinstrumental Cartesian
worldview of "clear and distinct" entities. Authorsare asked to chase
and capture the multiple potential meanings and effects their favorite
ontological spectre. Formed in 1991 to examine issues of theory, art,
culture and community in saturated age of technical media,
Perforations is perhaps the longestcontinuously running journal
online. The call for perforations 30, HUT TECH, will be released soon.
Perforations raison d'tre
here:http://www.pd.org/~chea/Perforations/perf1/perfintro.html
Perforations index page:http: podcasts, videos, and other projects
here:http://www.pd.org .. to I.T., who yesterday successfully
completed her PhD viva examination... Does A. C. Grayling really not
see the difference between being anonymous and using a synonym? The
somewhat attenuated discussion of anonymity and attribution over in
Voyou's comments box feeds into a series of recent posts: Sinthome's
reflections on (his) name and naming, and a cluster of related posts
by Steve, Jodi ,Kim and Dejan. A theme here is blogging's tendency to
summon a strange double, a second self that seems both alien yet which
cannon entirely be disavowed. It doesn't strike me that, in this
respect, logging is different from any other type of published
writing. As Borges established in his masterly microvignette on the
irreducibly gothic character of writing, 'Borges and I', even if one
writes in one's own name, writing itself produces a semblable, a
doppelganger which both is and is not oneself. (This is quite
different from what Steve describes: the deliberate assumption of a
wholly invented persona in MOOs, etc.) Perhaps writing or more
specifically, writing about oneself only reveals the inherently split
nature of the subject: the 'the other one, the one called Borges ...
the one things happen to' in 'Borges and I' is the subject of the
statement, the Borges who observes that 'I do not know which of us has
written this page' is the subject of the enunciation. Any use of the
pronoun 'I' will always exposes this split, this spaltung. I make no
special effort to conceal my surname online; the reason I do not use
it is more because I dislike, even loathe it, than because I want to
keep it a secret. I loathe my name because it is mine and also because
it is not mine; it is at once too intimate and seems to have no
connection with me. Perhaps because the name is quite common, it never
seems to fit me, or fit me alone. Nevertheless, when I see the name, I
always feel a peculiar sense of shame. (I'm reminded here of the Tom
Ripley of The Talented Mr Ripley. If 'Tom hated being Tom', it's in
part because he has to use his own name again. Yet one of the
surprises of the later Ripley novels is that Tom does not end up using
another name, even it would be a straightforward task for a master
forger and mimic like him to permanently assume someone else's
identity. Tom makes a name for himself; but more significantly, he
makes a new, sophisticated, stylish, charming self for his name.) The
pseudonym facilitates the escape from biography. I never chose the
name 'Mark kpunk'; I started being called it for obvious reasons (the
name of the site, plus the fact that I post here only under the name
'Mark'), but I embrace it and now use it because it seems more like my
True Name than the name on my birth certificate ever will. It suggests
a performance, but not one that is false. Someone wrote to me recently
saying that they had seen a film and immediately asked themselves
'what would punk think?' Of course, I ask myself such questions. That
is because a subject is always a subject for someone or something
else. One of the best aspects of Zizek's lectures in the summer at
Birkbeck was his discussion of the irreducibility of prosopopeia: that
there is never a subject in or for itself, that all modes of
subjectivity, no matter how ostensibly interior they are, involve a
minimal performance for an Other, even if that other is only ever
virtual. It's not that there aren't problems with anonymity, or
pseudonomy. The troll's use of the pseudonym, for instance, is often a
way of escaping accountability or responsibility. The issue is
consistency, and the troll's refusal to be identified with a set of
positions which themselves could be interrogated (this is unlikely to
be the case with a logger using a pseudonym); what irks about trolls
is their implicit claim to be 'speaking from nowhere', i.e. from the
position of commonsense, or on behalf of others. (I.T.'s recent troll
exemplified both these tendencies perfectly.) Theirs is performance of
and for the big Other; witness the fact that abuse in comments boxes
is far more common than abusive email, where there is no audience to
observe the performance of disdain. Incidentally, I.T.'s recent
difficulties makes clear the dangers of not being anonymous ironically
because, officially, as it were, she posts anonymously. You really do
have to wonder about the level of a mind which would report a logger
to their employer, don't you? Blahfeme now has a little report about
the Newcastle event. In response, I humbly present the last section of
my presentation, which was entitled, 'The Object Speaks: Grace Jones'.
In More Brilliant than the Sun, kodak shun situates Jones version of
Shes Lost Control as part of a tripartite moment, beginning with the
death of HAL in 2001, and continuing into the Chicago House of sleepy
Ds Lost Control. Seizing up, indeed. To lose control here is not to
attain the hypervital contingency of the lavatory or the ludic, but to
be seized, to find ones will interrupted and disrupted by the
interposition of an Other agent; and to seize up, to feel ones limbs
becoming arthritized by the irruption of the mechanical. In Joy
Divisions original, Ian Curtis objects his own disease, the holy
sickness of epilepsy, onto a female Other. We may remember that Freud
includes epileptic fits  along, incidentally, with a body in the grip
of sexual passion  as examples of the uncanny. Here the organic is
slaved to the mechanical rhythms of the inorganic; the inanimate calls
the tune. In Joy Divisions version, Shes Lost Control is one of rocks
most explicit encounters with death drive: it confronts the edge of no
escape, peril male as petit morts, police catalytic black holes in
subjectivity, intermittent interruptions of the userillusion of
identity Shes Lost Control  flailing voyages into the land of the dead
and back, like Artaud miserably waking from the white-hot torturebliss
of electroconvulsive therapy, repetitioncompulsion Shes Lost Control
Again Joy Divisions icyspined death disco sounds like it has been
recorded inside the damaged synaptic pathways of a brain of someone
undergoing a seizure, Curtis sepulchural, hedonic vocals sent back to
him  as if they were the voice of an Other, or Others in long, leering
expressionistic echoes that linger like acrid acid fog. Jones version
transposes the song into the Black Atlantic dub of which Martin
Hannets production was in any case a sombre Manchester doppelganger.
Perhaps it is in dub that we come as close as possible to encountering
the voice as object; for in dub the voice is estranged both from the
body and from signification, even as it can be heard as what they have
in common. In her version, Jones voice is wreathed in echoes  of
itself, of course; set adrift in a malevolent haze of eerily
circulating vocal fragments, figments and FX. Is it an accident that
amidst this vocal detritus are two of the limitcases of the linguistic
referred to by laden Dolar: the scream and the laugh? In the pre-
linguistic scream and the postlinguistic laugh, the liminality of the
language erupts in audible signs of the loss of control. Laughter
often bursts out uncontrollably, against the will and intention of the
hapless subject; it seizes him or her with an unstoppable force as a
series of cramps and convulsions which irrepressibly shake the body
and elicit inchoate cries which cannon be consciously contained. (29)
Where Curtis sounds alreadydead, fatalistically mortified, capable of
neither screaming nor laughing, Jones sounds crazed, deranged, in some
state that, neither agonized nor ecstatic, is some sublime bitches
brew of the two; jouissance, precisely. The screams and the laughter
seem to come from some Other place, a dread zone from which Jones has
returned, but only partially. Is it the laughter of one who has passed
through death or the scream of a machine that is coming to life? Jones
changes the words, repudiates Curtis disavowal. Ive lost control, she
sings, repeating her impossible identification again, paradoxically
asserting her subjectivity at the very moment of its erasure. Ive lost
control I have become the object. I, the object.I finally finished
Moby Dick, after making at least two previous abortive attempts over
the last twenty years. The novel contains multitudes, of course, but
it impressed me this time as a study of death drive, whose
characteristics are nowhere better anatomist than in Ahab's speech
above, perhaps the most powerful in the novel. Here, at the whitewater
heart of Melville's maelstrom, indifferent Fate and a blind, deranged
Deity, doubling each other, emerge as altars of death drive: the
'nameless, inscrutable, unearthly' 'hidden lord and master that
against all natural loving and longings' recklessly makes Ahab 'ready
to do what in [his] own proper, natural heart, [he] dust not so much
as dare'. 'Nameless, inscrutable, unearthly...' Melville's
characterization of demiurgic Fate sounds like an anticipation of
Lovecraft, and Melville's prodigy a spawn of Poe, as well as an
antecedent of Cthulhu could be described as a monstrously distended
Weird Tale. It is certainly a Queer tale, with Ahab who has abandoned
his young wife and child leading his male crew (among them the
'ambiguously intertwined' Ishmael and Queequeg) away from domesticity
and reproductive futurism into the ruinous embrace of Thanatos. Is
Ahab, Ahab indeed? A question whose surface simplicity incubates
countless metaphysical provocations. Ahab is Ahab only insofar as he
is more than Ahab, only insofar as he is the host and vessel for a
crazed, senseless tried that exceeds any 'natural longings'. '[I]n
Ahab's case, yielding up all his thoughts and fancies to his one
supreme purpose; that purpose, by its own sheer inveterate of will,
forced itself against gods and devils into a kind of selfassumed,
independent being of its own.' At the same time, Ahab is Ahab only
insofar as he is less than Ahab, only insofar as he will never achieve
the self-possession of identity, that he will be forever riven, split
as Ahab is, literally, scarred by a lightning strike. ('Threading its
way out from among his grey hairs, and continuing right down one side
of his tawny scorched face and neck, till it disappeared in his
clothing, you saw a slender godlike mark, vividly whitish. It
resembled that perpendicular seam sometimes made in the straight,
lofty trunk of a great tree, when the upper lightning teasingly darts
down it, and without wrenching a single twig, peels and grooves out
the bark from top to bottom, ere running off into the soil, leaving
the tree still greenly alive, but branded.') The white whale, needless
to say, is the objectcause of mutilated Ahab's mad desire; the whale's
snatching of a piece of him (his leg) prompting his seemingly
senseless quest for revenge. Ahab's monomania is matched only by the
coolness of his (self)diagnosis; he embraces his pyschopathology, he
does not shy away from it. Witness, for instance, his confession, in
i'The Cabin', that 'my malady becomes my most desired health'. Later,
Ahab concedes that the white whale is best left alone, only to deadpan
that 'what is best left alone, that accursed thing is not always what
least allures.' Is not Ahab the archetypal obsessive? According to
Lacan, the question that the obsessive is posing is: 'Am I alive or am
I dead?' As ithome explained in a typically fabulous recent post: 'The
question of whether I am alive or dead is ... a question about whether
or not I must sacrifice all my jouissance, and is premised on the
fantasy that I might eventually obtain total or complete jouissance by
testing the master.' Ahab is well aware that the white whale, aka Moby
Dick, aka the phallus, only stands in for the Master. In a famous
early exchange, Ahab is upbraided by his pragmatic first Mate,
Starbuck, for attempting 'vengeance on a dumb brute ... that simply
smote thee from blinds instinct!' When Starbuck protests that 'to be
enraged with a dumb thing, Captain Ahab, seems blasphemous', Ahab
responds by proclaiming what is in effect a Gnostic vision: 'all
visible objects, man,' he preaches, 'are but as pasteboard masks. But
in each eventing the living act, the undoubted deedthere, some unknown
but still reasoning thing puts forth the mouldings of its features
from behind the unreasoning mask.' In the whiteness of the whale its
void blankness the true structure of the cosmos, its secret
malignancy, is made suddenly and horribly visible. For Ahab, accident
is the disguise in which an occurred Necessity, a reasoning power
lurking behind (and within) the appearance of happenstance, masks
itself. Yet doesn't this vision of a malevolent order, a demiurgic
pattern beneath the appearance of randomness, ward off another horror?
Ahab's inhuman desire may be a sickness, but it is not melancholia.
The melancholic possesses the object of desire, but deprived of its
cause, so that the seemingly captured desired Thing recedes, relapses
into brute, meaningless materiality, like a rubber mask removed from a
face. The sheer futility of Ahab's quest means that he has the cause
but never the object of desire. He will thus never fall prey to
melancholia, that condition in which the world appears white,
colourless, because the 'madness' of human desire has been subtracted
from it. Without fantasy, the world is void, deprived of all
consistency. The whiteness of the whale is the blank screen on which
Ahab imposes his fantasies, the fantasies that make the world make
sense (a diseased kind of sense, naturally, but a sense nonetheless).
Apologies for lack of activity recently hereabouts... I've barely been
home in the last couple of weeks; last week I was preparing for
Saturday's event at Newcastle University with Jodi Dean and laden
Dolar, organised by the excellent Blahfeme and Spurious (See Jodi's
report.) In any case, there should be a proper post up tomorrow... I
present below a piece on Nigel Cooke which was originally intended to
be published in the Portuguese magazine, Slang; sadly the magazine has
folded, so waste not, want not... I think I compared Cooke to Burial
in the first post I wrote on the album... Nigel Cooke, Morning is
Broken (details) (2004) The theme of Nigel Cooke's paintings, a small
number of which were exhibited in his show 'A Portrait of Everything'
at the South London Gallery earlier this year, might best be described
as ontological rot. Cooke's work explicitly presents us with what seem
to be (at least) two different realities, both decaying. His
foregrounds, typically, are ultranaturalistic (christmas card snow
scenes are a particular favourite). The backgrounds, meanwhile, are
desolated, empty to the point of being Tanguyabstract. Typically, they
are also defaced by graffiti. Why is Cooke so fascinated with
graffiti? He has described the rendering of graffiti in his painting
he uses oil paints to create the effect  as 'slowed down street
language', and there is a way in which his paintings function like a
motion capturing device, transliterating the energies of urban culture
into paint. This is painting after hip hop and jungle, with the
paintings' 'impossible architectures' paralleling the bizarre
topologies invented by samplerbased sonic productions. Richard Dadd,
The Fairy Feller's MasterStroke (18551864) The graffiti in Cooke's
paintings seems to do two things at once: it does ontological violence
to the represented reality of the paintings by drawing our attention
to the fact that, after all, the painting is nothing more than a flat
surface it tells us what we already know: this is not a world. At the
same time, the graffiti constitutes itself as a reality, a painting
within a painting (or perhaps a painting over a painting): this is a
world, it insists. And, immediately, we have to infer the existence of
yet another reality, this time unseen the reality of the
graffitipainter, the 'idiot' author who has defaced the represented
world of the painting. Here we are in the painting equivalent of the
textual labyrinths designed by Beckett, Borges or RobbeGrillet, but
instead of embedded authors, we have an embedded painter, a
creatureturnedcreator, a golembecomegod, a drunken demure who must
conjure a world with only a spray-on to hand. Nigel Cooke, The
Philosopher (2005) What kind of world does Cooke's wounded god dream
up? It is a world  let us call it late capitalism  of the rejected,
the dejected and the addicted. When he spoke at the Tate a few months
ago about the relationship between his work and the Gothic, Cooke
described his anthropomorphic flowers and vegetables as figures from
advertising or children's stories who have grown up and found
themselves in dead-end jobs. Nigel Cooke, Thinking (2005) The graffiti
figures on/in the paintings the junkie vegetables, the smoking
flowers, the morose, hungry bones can be related, not only to their
sprightlier cousins in advertising, but to their ancestors in fairy
paintings. What have fairy myths been about, after all, if not a world
hidden within our world? The fairy world  vivid, hyperdetailed was a
delirium aristocracy, often cruel and exploitative, dreamt up by minds
intoxicated with psilocybin. The drug analogue for Cooke's fairy
gardens gone to seed would not be a fungus consumed on some greed
glade but housing estate heroin. The flowerbeds have become a
junkyard. They are not teeming with a fecund, indomitable Life, but
populated by creatures who have taken one step towards animation, then
fallen back into the mineral condition of addiction. The paintings are
illustrations for fairy tales rewritten by the Freud of Beyond the
Pleasure Principle. Nigel Cooke, Beer and Wine (2005) A timeless image
of Death lies miserable in front of us. A pathetic cowled bone. It
could be a medieval plague victim or a kid in a hooded top stalking a
shopping mall. Graffiti painters, Baudrillard enthused in 1977, free
walls 'from architecture and turn them again into living, social
matter.' In Cooke's paintings, by contrast, graffiti turns living,
organic landscapes into walls. The ruralvital becomes the urbanundead.
Cooke described his paintings as a 'flawed idea of representing the
afterlife', saying that they were 'a frontier site where paintings go
to die, an elephant's graveyard of images.' Nigel Cooke, The Dead
(2005) It seems that all the worlds are rotting at once. The colours
are fading. Everything looks washed out. Morning has broken, and there
is noone to fix it. Thanks to Karl Kraft for the scans, and for
introducing me to Cooke The reality of nostalgia is nowhere better
invoked than at the end of Tarkovsky's Solaris. When the camera pans
away from Kelvin embracing his father on the rain-soaked steps of his
dacha, we realise that the scene is yet another of the simulations
produced by the inscrutable planet. The whole film can be read as a
treatise on the dangers and seductions of nostalgic desire. With the
perversity of literalism, the covenants that the planet throws up
consist of nothing but memory, and in the grotesque absurdities of
Kelvin's relationship with his wife's double, Solaris demonstrates
that desire may well depend upon the inhuman partner, but the inhuman
partner alone can only be an object of horror. (And what is this
dreaming ocean absolutely alien to us, yet horribly aware of our every
desire and memory if not the unconscious itself?) Tarkovsky's film
ends with a simulation of a place the Russia that Tarkovsky would soon
lose, and which he would pine for in his own Nostalgia. The elision
between time and space in nostalgia as Simon tells us, nostalgia was
originally defined as an intense longing for a place, before it was
thought of as a craving for the past is easy to credit. (Simon is
right that the precedence of the spatial over the temporal holds even
if 'nostos' originally meant 'return' rather than 'homeland'.
Interestingly, of course, 'return' carries both spatial and temporal
connotations.) No doubt the fantasy of time travel is so powerful
because the idea that the past is waiting somewhere, pristine, intact,
awaiting our return, is so hard to eradicate from the unconscious.
Nostalgia reverses the sense of Hartley's epigram whilst retaining its
equation of lost time with a faraway place: the past is not a foreign
country but a homeland. Here we must recall one of the most famous
passages in Freud's essay on 'The Uncanny': What Freud calls the
'lascivious' fantasy of 'intrauterine existence' seeks something
impossible, and not only physically. The logic of desire is itself
contradictory: what is sought is a conscious experience of a
dissolution of the ego, the very seat of consciousness. If this is the
model for all nostalgia, then it is clear that the nostalgic desire
seeks something more unattainable even than the recovery of the past;
it wants the past as seen from now. The past which we had to live
through headlong can be savoured only now that it has been subtracted
from the flow of becoming. Thomas Hardy's poems, topical at the moment
because of Claire Tomalin's tretorn Man, (a 'haunted and haunting
biography' according to Hilary Spurling in The Observer) bring out
this dimension of nostalgia with a peculiar power. 'The SelfUnseeing'
pictures Hardy doubled like Spider in Cronenberg's film, an observer
of the past and an actor in it watching a bucolically restated scene
from long ago: 'Childlike, I danced in a dream;/ Blessings emblazoned
that day/ Everything glowed with a gleam; Yet we were looking away!'
And yet it is clear that the 'gleam' depends upon the 'looking away';
it is something that the scene has acquired by virtue of a long period
of time having elapsed. What is mourned for is an unselfconscious
casualness; what is wanted is the possibility of experiencing those
moments again, but with the added piquancy brought by age and loss.
Again, this is not only empirically impossible; to re-experience the
past like this would be to lose the very lightness that is yearned for
in it. In his later years, Hardy retreated from the modern world his
novels had confronted (a world that, in many ways, he saw as not
modern enough; Jude, for instance, was destroyed by the dead man's
grip of a past) and gave himself over to composing a lyric poetry
decorated with archaic diction. All of Hardy's love poems written by
an old man, recalling feelings he had experienced half a century
before combine nostalgia with necromancy. But the figure they are
devoted to was in large part his own invention. The poems are seances
that summon an inhuman partner, a fantastic double of his dead
wife.When she was alive, Hardy's wife Emma suspected that he could
only love imaginary women (she believed that he was in love with his
own creation, Tess). It is ironic then that the love poetry Hardy
addressed to her confirms that he could only love his own creations,
since it was only when Emma herself had died and could become an
imaginary woman, a 'voiceless ghost' as he put it in 'After a
Journey', that Hardy could love her again. (Emma and Hardy had been
effectively estranged for many ears.) 'After a Journey' makes repeated
play of the doubleness of the word 'haunt', entangling a sense of the
place with the call of the past in a way that is typical of all
Hardy's love lyrics, which are such vivid illustrations of the
nostalgic impulse in general. What Hardy's poems shy away from is the
possibility that the much longed-for past is a retrospective
confabulation; that his love for Emma thrived on obstacles, and gained
its impetus at the end from the most serious obstacle of all, death.
Can it be that it was all so simple then? By contrast, the reason that
'The Way We Were' is one of the best nostalgia songs is that it is
precisely about the ways in which nostalgia depends upon a
falsification a 'misty watercolouring' of the past. When the Wu Tang
Clan sampled 'The Way We Were', the line they hijacked and looped from
the Gladys Knight version, not the Streisand original was 'can it be
that it was all so simple then?', the plaintive tremor of the original
now become a repeated reproach, its wraith-like insubstantiality made
all the more affecting by being placed in RZA's sirenscarred brutalism
NYC. In the original, of course, this line is followed by, 'or has
time rewritten every line'? The impossible existential dilemma 'and if
we had the chance to do it again/ would we?' poses a Nietzschean
challenge (one reminiscent of the plight of the lovers in Eternal
Sunshine of the Spotless Mind), which Hamlisch's lyrics resolve in an
appropriately Nietzschean way, with an celebration of the power of
forgetting (falsification as the necessary precondition for all
affirmation): 'what's too painful to remember, we simply choose to
forget'. We choose to forget... rather than we are unable to remember,
as in trauma. We return to a past, the past does not return to (or
through) us; the repetition is not a compulsion. It strikes me,
however, that the nostalgia mode is another kind of pathology
altogether. The Way we Were was part of the 1970s' thematization of
nostalgia, as were Roxy, whose diachronic collages might have seemed
quintessentially postmodern twenty years ago, but which now look like
exercises in modernist nostalgia (with Bowlly, rock and roll and a
then still imaginable synthetic future converging in an impossible
Overlook Hotel simultaneity). Mention of the Overlook inevitably
brings to mind is the Caretaker who, with Theoretically pure
anterograde amnesia has provided one of the most acute and also, not
coincidentally, one of the bleakest diagnoses of our condition. As I
put it in my sleevenotes, Theoretically pure anterograde amnesia is
not about a craving for the past but inability to get out of the past.
It might seem strange to suggest that our condition is amnesiac, but
anterograde amnesia is the incapacity to produce new memories. Beneath
the superficial bonhomie of the endless television rundown (100 bests,
I Love 1971234......), Theoretically pure anterograde amnesia finds a
dementia. The young have become like the very old, living in a past
that they confuse with the present. More horrible than being trapped
in one's own reminiscences, this is about being condemned to forever
wander someone else's memory lanes (a fate which cannon but remind us
of Rachel's situation in Blade Runner). The present looms emptily, an
unsymbolizable abstraction, an abandoned echo chamber, forbidding in
its abstraction; the only landmarks are the fragments of the past
which flare intermittently in the murk. The genius of Theoretically
pure anterograde amnesia is that it reinforces the very condition it
describes; the seventy odd tracks, each one Beckettsparse, are
impossible to remember each time you hear them, it is as if for the
first time (even though the first time was already an instance of dea
entendu). It's a paradoxical wish, but one that captures the peculiar
anxieties of the postmodern era in their most acute post9/11 form. In
the end, the pod is the ideal product for the era of homeland
insecurity. Nigel KnealeOK, so we all know that boat is humiliatingly,
careerendingly unfunny (one trick too many for one-track pony Sacha
DoubleBarelled) but can anyone explain why the 'character' isn't
roundly condemned for being as unacceptably racist as the one-
dimensional stereotypes from is sitcoms such as Mind Your Language?
(Could it be because Baron Cohen is middle class, I wonder?) Simon is
right to observe that nostalgia was a preoccupation of literary
modernism: to his examples of Proust and Nabokov we can add Joyce
(Ulysses as an exercise in recreating Dublin as it was twenty years
before). The difference between literary modernism and current pop,
however, is that, in the case of the former, the 'search for lost
time' involved the invention of new formal techniques. I'm not sure
that GekOpel's misgivings can be waved away by the claim that there is
no pop futurism around at the moment (as I recall, Simon used the same
argument to defend the Arctic Monkeys). Even if pop futurism is thin
on the ground at the moment, there is still the whole history of
innovation and novelty in pop; if contemporary pop fails by those
standards, it should be judged accordingly, and tautology is important
precisely because it forces the comparison between present pop and its
antecedents. get is concerned about their being not 'enough absence,
or memories of things which never existed' in Ghost Box in particular.
I think that Owen's response to this anxiety identifies that there all
kinds of 'what ifs' at play in Ghost Box: My claim would be that the
Radiophonic Workshop were more important than the Beatles; that the
Workshop rendered even the most experimental rock obsolete even before
it had happened. But of course you are not comparing like with like
here; the Beatles occupied front stage in the Pop Spectacle, whereas
the Radiophonic Workshop insinuated their jingles, idents, themes and
special FX into the weft of everyday life. The Workshop were properly
unheimlich, unhomely, fundamentally tied up with a domestic
environment that had been invaded by media. Thus, nostalgia literally,
'homesickness', remember for the Radiophonic Workshop involves a
craving for houses haunted by weird media. I am about the same age as
Julian and Jim from Ghost Box, so my nostalgia for the is is evidently
determined in part by the fact that I was a child in that decade.
Nevertheless, I think that Owen goes some way to establishing that
there was something worth remembering about the end of what was
misleadingly termed the 'postwar consensus'. Looking back at the
industrial unrest of the early 70s, it is hard to credit to the amount
of conflict that was accepted as normal. It has been the decade and a
half that has been the period of 'consensus' (= tyranny of
capitalistparliamentarian administration). This is no licence for
peddling the 4579 period in pastiche packaging. But I don't believe
that Ghost Box do that. They are at their most beguiling when they
foreground dyschronia as on melbury Poly's 'Caermaen' (from The
Willows) and 'Wetland' (from The Owl's Map') where folk voices
summoned from beyond the grave are made to sing new songs. Dyschronia
is integral to the Focus Group's whole methodology; the joins are too
audible, the samples too jagged, for their tracks to sound like
simulations or refurbished artifacts. In any case, Ghost Box conjure a
past that never was. Their artwork fuses the look of comprehensive
school text books and public service manuals with allusions to weird
fiction, a fusion that has more to do with the compressions and
conflation of dreamwork than with memory. At the same time, it is
worth recalling that the Radiophonic Workshop were effectively public
servants, that they were employed to produce a weird public space. The
implicit demand for such a space in Ghost Box inevitably reminds us
that the period since 1979 in Britain has seen the gradual but
remorseless destruction of the very concept of the public. Public
space has been consumed and replaced be something like the 'third
place' exemplified by franchise coffee bars. Here, you are transported
into the easily inviting quasidomesticated interior of one of SF
Capital's spaceships: deterritorialization (you could be anywhere) and
reterritorialization (you are in surroundings whose every nuance is
shingly familar). These spaces are uncanny only in their power to
replicate sameness (their voracious dominance of the high street is as
visually striking a sign as you could wish for of the lie that
capitalism engenders competition and diversity), and the monotony of
the starbuck environment is both reassuring and oddly disorientating;
inside the pod, it's possible to literally forget what city you are
in. What I have called nomadalgia is the sense of unease that these
anonymous environments, more or less the same the world over, provoke;
the travel sickness produced by moving through spaces that could be
anywhere. The next stage will be physical spaces which resemble the
interpassive consumer monads of space or the pod (Paul Morley imagines
such a space in Words and Music): My, I... what happened to Our Space,
or the idea of a public that was not reducible to an aggregate of
consumer preferences? In Ghost Box and Mordant Music, the lost concept
of the public has a very palpable presenceinabsence, via samples of
public service announcements. (Incidentally one connection between
rave and GB/MM is the Prodigy's sampling of this kind of announcement
on 'Charly'.) Public service announcements remembered because they
could often be disquieting, particularly for children constitute a
kind of reservoir of collective unconscious material. The disinterest
of such broadcasts now cannon but play as the demand for a return of
the very concept of public service. Ghost Box repeatedly invoke public
bodies through names (Belbury Poly, the Advisory Circle) and also
forms (the tourist brochure, the textbook). It's no accident that
television with its longsince dishonoured 'public service remit' is
crucial to both them and MM. Mordant oneirically pulp memories from
different periods and media into a dreamed past. On Dead Air, is
television is made to coexist with rave and electro. Television and
rave both stand for modes of collectivity that are either lost or
dying, and their combination hints at a kind of collectivity that has
never happened. The public service announcement is of such importance
because it is so formally similar to advertising, the most corrosive
of postmodern forms. Baudrillard was right (see 'Advertising Degree
Zero' in Simulation and Simulacra): advertising has long since
exploded beyond its bounds until to consume everything else,
implacably coercing all cultural processes (education as well as
entertainment) into becoming adverts for themselves. Confronted with
capital's intense semiotic pollution, its encrustation of the urban
environment with idiotic vigils and imbecile slogans noone neither the
people who wrote them nor those at whom they are aimed believes, you
often wonder: what if all the effort that went into this flashy trash
were devoted to a public good? If for no other reason, Ghost Box and
Mordant Music are worth measuring because they make us pose that
question with renewed force. Where to start with Sunday's enthralling
electric Prime Suspect conclusion? Perhaps with the ending, which, to
my great relief, avoided all pyrotechnics; neither the characters nor
the complications were sacrificed to the soap opera punctuation mark
of the cheap death scene. (This was contrary to media misdirection,
which hinted rather heavily that tennyson would not survive...) If I
was unsure about Prime Suspect when it started, that was because of
misgivings about Lynda La Plante, whom I've always distrusted for many
of the same reasons that I've never been persuaded by Jimmy McGovern.
There is always a kind of machismo in La Plante's writing, a
sentimentalization of male homosociality, as if the greatest
achievement for a woman would be to be included in a man's world. (It
comes as no surprise to learn that La Plante was reportedly sniffy
about the direction that the final Prime Suspect ....) But by the end,
tennyson no longer wants to be 'one of the lads'. So in the final
scene, she refused the tawdry consolations of easy bonhomie, walking
her own lonely path, burned out, battered, but unbowed just herself
and the choices that she still affirms: the consummate existentialist.
This was a loneliness denuded of all glamour; not a young man's
loneliness, where you can walk off into a sunset, knowing there are
many sunsets to come. Knowing also that domesticity and reproduction
are not expected of you (and Prime Suspect has always been clear that
women have still not escaped those expectations). The hard choices she
had to make bite harder as she gets older, now that there are only
cheerless entrance halls and not heated arguments with exasperated
lovers to come home to, and the whole familiar, familial world points
fingers of reproach. The scenes at the funeral were especially
powerful: tennyson heroically rejecting the embrace of the Family,
smug sister and smug niece (plummy niece's accent mercilessly mocked
by Tennison) preferring reproductive futurism's warm milk, tennyson
preferring to drink alone (repulsing, too, the repulsive sexual
overtures of an opportunistic barman: 'Take your fucking hand off
me.') Hearth and home were always a temptation, a deflection, and
tennyson is resolute in seeing the agents of reproductive futurism as
demonic avatars, offering a succour more fake, more deadly even than
the bottle. Children would have been an indulgence for Tennison, who
had chosen, instead, to clear up the mess produced by other people's
children.... And by their parents, whose love, if it is there at all,
is both excessive and insufficient (but what is love if it is not an
excess, a sickness, and this Prime Suspect suggested that the sickest
love of all is that between father and daughter?) So there is
Tennison, pushing her way through other people's children, a 'Zombie
Army of teenagers ...' When Prime Suspect started it could look as if
it the structuring opposition was career versus domesticity (very La
Plantean/ Thatcherite); but by the end, it was a matter of domesticity
versus public duty. And who is going to thank you for choosing public
duty, these days? (Thankfully, it turns out that there are some hard
won words of thanks at the end, all the more moving for their
quieteness, their difficulty, their lack of ceremony. This will have
to be enough.) So many shots of tennyson in a lit office, framed by
darkness... The public world, receding, rotting ... The streets now a
stalking and prowling ground for other people's children, abandoned by
absentee parents, long gone or (always) late home... One of the new
blaikie therapeuticmanagerialist cops describes tennyson as 'old
school'... Yes, in so many ways... Tennison's existential drama was so
consummately drawn that the plot almost became a distraction. You
could drown in the nuances in Mirren's expression, her face a crumpled
mask over which she exerted painterly control. Now, she is a
bewildered old woman hastily covered in a blanket, resurfacing from
yet another blackout; now, the ruthless hunter, the steel in the eyes,
the spine, the mind, glinting again... But it wasn't all about Mirren.
Laura Greenwood deserves special credit for her performance as Penny:
an incendiary combination of teen rage, wounds, secrets, intelligence,
sensitivity. Teenagers, so poorly served by most TV drama, emerged as
complex figures for once: the frontline casualties of neoliberalism's
economic experiments, victims and betrayer because betrayed by
everyone, beguiling but dangerous in so many ways. One of the themes
was adults' vulnerability to teenagers. Most of the adult characters
are ruined, compromised, or weakened by their love for teenagers.
(They fuck you up...) Not least tennyson herself.... 'She stole my
heart...' This was an exquisite production in every respect. Little
details... As Ian put it last week: 'The most touching details ... are
also always the smallest, the most prosaic; like the victim's father,
needing to go off and just sit in his car, alone, with a can of beer.
(If this is true, which we dont actually know yet. But it *felt*
true.)' It did turn out to be true, a credit to the script. This is
the kind of detail one often finds in Highsmith, where a character
assumes guilt not because their actions are malevolent, but because
they are inexplicable, apparently causeless. The strange contingency
of desire... Exceptional use was made of longueurs, the camera
lingering on scenes long after the grammar of TV drama has taught us
to expect it to depart a technique that has perhaps been borrowed from
comedies like The Office. Sound was crucial here: scratchy fumblings,
air-conditioned hum, evoking the inertia of the Real.... Into these
silences and nearsilences, violence, when it erupted, was that much
more terrifying... The perfect ending... Doubles and doubling
everywhere... (Blackouts) 'You remind me of...' 'You...' 'When I was
your age...' Tennison's double, Penny the ghost of what she was,
become the revenantrevenger of her aborted child. (Noone could have
failed to notice that Penny is about the age that Tennison's child
would have been if it had not been terminated...) 'How could you kill
your child?' The last stand, between tennyson and reproductive
futurism... But tennyson holds her nerve, yields nothing to
reproductive futurism, affirms though the whole world, family photos
on its desk, seems to disagree that her ethical commitment to public
duty was the right choice. My 'frighteningly indepth' on Sound roundup
is now up on the Fact website. In other news I'm also speaking at this
on Saturday if anyone wants to come.... Special feature on the
Scarface did featuring (amongst many others) Russell Simmons, Raekwon,
Method Man, Snoop, Big Boi, Andre 3000, and Puff Daddy who describes
it as 'the most important film of our generation...' Paul, ex of
Autonomic for the People, has a new blow here... Philip, not entirely
ex of It's All in Your Mind, has a new blow here... dean doesn't have
a new blog, but he has some new things to say on B DP. Up until now,
I've never been entirely convinced by Prime Suspect but, credit where
its due, the latest and last instalment is absolutely superb. I'm sure
Helen Mirren is outstanding as the Queen I must confess, I have no
urgent desire to go and see what must turn out to be de facto
monarchist propaganda (whose message would have to be: deep down, the
Queen is a human being, just like us) but I doubt that her performance
could better this. One line on her face is more expressive than most
thesps' whole careers. A look, a faint change of expression is enough
to carry the unbearable weight of Prime Suspect 7's great theme,
mortality. Mortality threatens Mirren's Jane tennyson in many forms:
her age (at one point, she sees herself in the mirror and seems unable
recognise herself, an increasingly common experience as one gets
older), doubts about wrong choices (the reproaches of empty hallways,
address books full of names that she cannon call when in need of
succour), the death of her father (the scenes with Frank Finlay, also
excellent, imply a lifetime of evasions, frustrations and inadequately
handled affections). There were at least three moments that provoked
tears, and not cheaply. I was never convinced by Cracker either I
always thought it too pleased with itself, Fitz's 'shocking
psychological insights' amounting to shopworn Catholic nihilism and
when it returned for a special two weeks ago, all my misgivings were
confirmed. The 'political' points were rather too easy, depending upon
a plot that lacked any credibility; and Fitz's alcoholism and
gambling, as ever, were rather too picturesque. The alcoholism in the
latest Prime Suspect, by contrast, is squalid, an embarrassment , not
some machismo vice of which one is (not so) secretly proud. Alcohol,
in fact, seems to be the poisoned lifeblood of Prime Suspect 7's
England; characters are either accusing each other of being alcoholic
or pouring themselves a glass, unremarked and unobserved. The England
that emerges here a place of modernist architecture, miserable
hospital wards, Alcoholic Anonymous meetings, lonely late night coffee
bars resembles the banal inferno grimly painted in Lumet's The Offence
or in the novels of David Peace. For once, London's ready made
dystopia is used rather than glossed over. But there is a terrible
beauty in the photography, an understated expressionistic stylishness
brilliantly shown off in the last few moments, in a bravura sequence
that alternated between shots of passing trains, slow motion footage
and the unblinking monochrome of CCTV. Let's hope that the second, and
concluding, part maintains the standard when it airs next week. In
2002 Mr Bush lumped Iraq, North Korea and Iran together in an axis of
evil and said he would stop them acquiring nuclear weapons. He implied
that regime change in Iraq might be followed by regime change in North
Korea and Iran. Now one says it has the bomb and the other is ignoring
Security Council orders to stop enriching uranium. The
antiproliferation policy Mr Bush put at the forefront of his foreign
policy has been a colossal failure. The Economist this week As this
source tells us: Also: dean on De Palma Kim Dot Dammit fascinating on
The Black Dahlia Since we're talking about hauntology, we ought to
have mentioned Beloved by now: not only Morrison's novel, but also
Demme's astonishing film. It's telling that femme is celebrated for
his silly grand guignol, The Silence of the Lambs, while Beloved is
forgotten, repressed, screened out. Hopkins' pantomime ham turn as
Lecter surely spooks noone , whereas handle Newton's automatonstiff,
innocentmalevolent performance as Beloved is almost unberable:
grotesque, disturbing, moving in equal measure. Like The Shining a
film that was also widely dismissed for nigh on a decade Beloved
reminds us that America, with its anxious hankering after an
'innocence' it can never give up on, is haunted by haunting itself. If
there are ghosts, then what was supposed to be a New Beginning, a
clean break, turns out to be a repetition, the same old story. The
ghosts were meant to have been left in the Old World .... but here
they are... Whereas The Shining digs beneath the tautological
structure of the American family and finds an Indian Burial Ground,
Beloved pitches us right into the atrocious heart of America's other
genocide: slavery and its aftermath. No doubt the film's commercial
failure was in part due to the fact that the wounds are too raw, the
ghosts too Real. When you leave the cinema, there is no escape from
these spectres, these apparitions of a Real which will not go away but
which cannon be faced. Some idb viewers complain that Beloved should
have been reclassified as Horror... well, so should American
history... Beloved comes to mind often as I listen to Stone Cold Ohio,
the outstanding new LP by Little Axe. Little Axe have been releasing
records for over a decade now, but, in the 90s, my nervous system
camped up by jungle's crazed accelerations, I wasn't ready to be
seduced by their lugubrious dub blues. In 2006, however, the haunted
famous of Stone Cold Ohio take their place alongside Burial's
phantomstalked South London and Ghost Box's abandoned television
channels in tautological Now. Since I received Stone Cold Ohio last
week, I've listened to listen else; and when I wasn't immersed in
Stone Cold Ohio I was revisiting the other four Little Axe LPs. The
combination of skintingling voices (some original, some sampled) with
dub space and drift is deeply addictive. Little Axe's world is
entrancing, vivid, often harrowing; it's easy to get lost in these
thickets and fogs, these phantom plantations built on casual cruelty,
these makeshift churches that nurtured collective dreams of escape...
Shepherds...Do you hear the lambs are crying? Little Axe's records are
wracked with collective grief. Spectral harmonics resemble howling
wolves; echoes linger like wounds that will never heal; the voices of
the living harmonise with the voices of the dead in songs thick with
reproach, recrimination and the hunger for redemption. Yet utopian
longings also stir in the fetid swamps and unmarked graveyards; there
are moments of unbowed defiance and fugitive joy here too. I know my
name is written in the Kingdom.... Little Axe is Skip McDonald's
project. Through his involvement with the likes of Ohio Players, the
Sugarhill Gang and Mark Stewart, McDonald has always been associated
with futureorientated pop. If Little Axe appear at first sight to be a
retreat from fallon future shock McDonald returning to his first
encounter with music, when he learned blues on his father's guitar we
are not dealing here the familiar, tiresome story of a 'mature'
disavowal of modernism in the name of a retreating of Trad form. In
fact, Little Axe's anachronistic temporality can be seen as yet
another rendering of future shock; except that this time, it is the
vast unassimilable trauma, the SF catastrophe, of slavery that is
being confronted. (Perhaps it always was...) Even though Little Axe
are apt to be described as 'updating the blues for the just century'
they could equally be seen as donating the just century into the early
20th. Their dyschronia is reminiscent of those moments in Stephen
King's It where old photographs come to (a kind of) life, and there is
a hallucinatory suspension of sequentiality. Or, better, to the time
slips in Octavia Butler's Kindred, where contemporary characters are
abducted back into the waking nightmare of slavery. (The point being:
the nightmare never really ended...) There is no doubt that blues has
a privileged position in pop's metaphysics of presence: the image of
the singer-songwriter alone with his guitar provides rocks with its
emblem of authenticity and authorship. But Little Axe's return to the
supposed beginnings unsettled this by showing that there were ghosts
at the origin. tautology is the proper temporal mode for a history
made up of gaps, erased names and sudden abductions. The traces of
gospel, spiritual and blues out of which Stone Cold Ohio is assembled
are not the relics of a lost presence, but the fragments of a time
permanently out of joint. These musics were vast collective works of
mourning and melancholia. Little Axe confront American history as a
single 'empire of crime', where the War on Terror decried on Stone
Cold Ohio's opening track a post 9/11 rechanneling of Blind Willie
Johnson's 'If I had My Way' is continuous with the terrordome of
slavery. When I interviewed Skip last week for Fact, he emphasised
that Little Axe tracks always begins with the samples. The origin is
out of joint. He has described before the anachronizing Methodology he
uses to transport himself into the past. 'I like to surf time. What I
like to do is study time-periods get right in to 'em, so deep it gets
real heavy in there.' McDonald's deep immersion in old music allows
him to travel back in time and the ghosts to move forward. It is a
kind of possession (recalling Winfrey's claim that she and the cast
were 'possessed' when they were making Beloved). The capacity to allow
yourself to be possessed is the mark of all great performers.* Little
Axe's records skilfully mystify questions of authorship and
attribution, origination and repetition. It is difficult to
disentangle sampling from songwriting, impossible to draw firm lines
between a cover version and an original song. Songs are
texturallydense palimpsests, accreted rather than authored. McDonald's
own vocals, by turns doleful, quietly enraged and affirmatory, are
often doubled as well as dubbed. They and the modern instrumentation
repeatedly sink into grainy sepia and misty trails of reverb, falling
into a diachronic contemporaneity with the crackly samples. Ian's
recent tilt at grail Marcus echoes the misgivings he expressed in his
landmark piece on Tricky (the piece, really, in which Sonic tautology
was first broached). There, Ian complained about Marcus' 'measured
humanism which leaves little room for the UNCANNY in music'. Part of
the reason Little Axe are intriguing is that their use of dub makes it
possible for us to encounter blues as uncanny and untimely again.
Little Axe position blues not as part of American history, as Marcus
does, but as one corner of the Black Atlantic. What makes the
combination of blues and dub far more than a gimmick is that there is
an uncanny logic behind the superimposition of two corners of the
Black Atlantic over one another. Adrian Sherwood's role in the band is
crucial. Sherwood has said that Little Axe take inspiration from the
thought that there is a common ground to be found in 'the music of
Captain Beefheart and Prince Far I, King Tubby and Jimi Hendrix'. In
the wrong hands, a synthesis like this could end up as a recipe for
stodgy, Whole Earth humanism. But Sherwood is a designer of OtherWorld
music, an expert in eeriness, a kind of antiJools Holland . What is
most pernicious about Holland is the way in which, under his
stewardship, pop is deartificialized, renaturalized, bodily traced
back to a racialized source. Dub, evidently, goes in exactly the
opposite direction it estranged the voice, or points up the voice's
inherent strangeness. When I interviewed Sherwood last week he was
delighted by my description of his art as 'schizophonic' Sherwood
detaches sounds from sources, or at least occult the relationship
between the two. The tyranny of Holland's Later... has corresponded
with the rise of no-nonsense pop which suppresses the role of
recording and production. But 'Dub was a breakthrough because the seam
of its recording was turned inside out for us to hear and exult in;
when we had been used to the "re" of recording being repressed,
recessed, as though it really were just a representation of something
that already existed in its own right.' (Penman) Hence what I have
called dubtraction; and what is subtracted, first of all, is presence.
chin refers to the voice that is detached from a source as acousmatic.
The dub producer, then, is an acousmatician, a manipulator of sonic
phantoms that have been detached from live bodies. Dub time is unlive,
and the producer's neo-romantic role his raising of the dead is
doubled by his treating of the living as if dead. For Little Axe, as
for the bluesman and the Jamaican singers and players they channel,
tautology is a political gesture: a sign that the dead will not be
silenced. I'm a prisonerSomehow I will be free tautological addenda
It's no accident that Ian's remarks on tautology were prompted by
Tricky, and who as Ian mentions should have helped produce Maxinquaye
if not Mark Stewart? Another tautological on connection is African
Headcharge. The African Headcharge LPs are masterpieces of OtherWorld
music: eerie, abstract slices of rhythmic psychedelia. Sherwood came
up with the concept of African Headcharge after hearing Eno remark
that My Life in the Bush of Ghosts was intended to be a 'vision of a
psychedelic Africa'. Sherwood has completed a new African Headcharge
LP and its title will be ... Vision of a psychedelic Africa. *And
exactly what someone like Robbie Williams, and this is the pathology
of his postmodernism, is unable to do; he is always falling over
himself to advertise his apes and james as citations, over which his
majesty the Ego prevails. My on piece, which includes interviews with
Skip McDonald, Adrian Sherwood and Mark Stewart, will be appearing
very soon on the Fact website. Little Axe are playing an acoustic set
at Ray's Jazz in Foyle's bookshop, Charing Cross Road, next Monday, th
October, at 6 PM. Admission free. Ian P is tremendous on Scarface, but
I'm not being perverse when I say that, oddly, Scarface is the one
major De Palma film that has never particularly moved me, even though
I buy everything Ian has to say about its massive cultural
significance. In fact, it may be because Scarface is too flat with
hiphop, Cribs, gangster chic, that it has left me cold. gangs is one
of capitalist realism's 'myth of no myths': a myth which presents
itself as an exposure and undercutting of fantasy, a biological
reduction. As Ian so memorably puts it: '"Is this it? Fuckin, suckin,
snortin..." is not just American Dream cynical, it approaches Beckett
in its existential faulting ennui! Is this it? Breathin', eatin,
shittin...?' Ian argues that De Palma is like Hitchcock without the
psychopathology. But De Palma's relationship to Hitchcock was itself
psychopathological; his films openly staged revivalism as necrophilia.
De Palma didn't pay homage to the Master, he stalked him,
relentlessly, unable to escape his fixation. At this point I would
link to my post on Obsession from the old logger site (a post that was
prompted last time IP and I had a to and fro about DP), but that's all
but impossible now that the site has been hacked by corporate
interests. So I present it again below, in a slightly remixed form,
partly as a prompt to myself to write more about De Palma; partly
because I hope that it might inspire Bacterial grl, who I know is also
fascinated by DP, to post something on him. Like the later Body Double
, Obsession has a glutinous, heavy, slow-motion feel; it seems to be
filmed almost entirely as a dream sequence. (That is what partly what
makes Body Double , which ought to be just trash , easily compelling:
it is unreal, patently so, but that unreality has an odd consistency,
the consistency of an involuntary private fantasy, and you're kept
watching this film about voyeurism by the guilty suspicion that you
are voyeurising De Palma.) Obsession is filmed in a cloying softfocus,
as if it is not only a dream, but a memory (a memory of a dream), as
if what is happening is happening in a fatal (No) time, a deja vu time
in which everything that happens is being repeated even as it
ostensibly happens for the first time. Vertigo , again. dea vu: the
already seen . In Scotty's search for a lost, neverpresent, referent,
in his consciousness of the weight of a past one falsifies even as one
attempts to inhabit it, in his amour foudriven passion for remaking ,
De Palma finds an allegory for the postmodern predicament (his own).
And ours? Itself a remake, Obsession is also, fittingly and
inevitably, about remaking. It stars Cliff Robertson, an ageing
Southern aristocrat out of Poe, nearparalysed by melancholia.
Robertson, we learn, lost his wife and daughter in a bungled kidnap
years ago. The police told him not to pay the kidnappers, to fill a
suitcase with blank pieces of paper. And that is the appalling,
crippling weight he bears now: he chose the money over his family.
Money undergoes a negative cathexis, becomes meaningless, or even
abhorrent, to him. The fact he has it means that he does not have his
wife (Genevieve Bujold) and child. The image of the young Robertson,
the plan to outwit the kidnappers failed/ foiled, the case open, the
worthless pieces of paper fluttering in the wind, is an image of total
loss: because he dared not risk losing something valuable, he has lost
the ability to find value in anything .... And then, years later, on a
convalescent business trip to Italy (his whole life, now, is a kind of
failed convalescence, a deathly enduring ) he sees can it be a double
of his dead wife. Naturally, something awakens in him Scotty's
hopeless hope a hope born in denial, born in the refusal of the
unconscious to believe in death (or time). Can it be? yet it is
impossible, surely, because this is an image of his wife, not as she
would be now, but exactly as she looked then . And he finds that this
doppelganger is working on yes, naturally a restoration (of a local
church). She faces a dilemma: beneath one of the frescoes there is
another painting. It could be a great lost masterpiece or it could be
nothing. Should she risk destroying the fresco for the sake of what
might only be a daub? It goes without saying that this dilemma is
doubled in Robertson's: should he investigate, dig deeper, at the risk
of destroying this young woman or, worse, as far as he is concerned,
destroying his image of her? And so the film unwinds, (I won't spoil
it for those who haven't seen it) towards its climax, which like the
end of the first two thirds of Vertigo , amounts to a running of the
past, an exposure of a plot, the anatomy of a betrayal. Unlike Vertigo
, though, Obsession , improbably, ends happily but it is a
vertiginous, disturbing, distinctly creepy, happy ending... build and
Robertson spinning round and round and round each other, gripping each
other's hands....I'm the world's greatest apologist for Brian De Palma
but his version of Elroy's The Black Dahlia is a disaster. The plot is
so incomprehensible that you are left wondering how the director
thought anyone would be able to follow it (one exasperated reviewer
said that he'd read the novel twice and even he didn't know what was
going on). Worse, the film pursues a hackneyed Stylishness, as
embodied in Scarlett Johansson's horribly stilted performance Am Dram
mannequin in dressing up box outfits, ostentatiously twirling a
cigarette holder because That's What Screen camps Do. De Palma is
peculiarly unsuited to adapt Elroy. His stock-in-trade is the lurid
and the excessive, not rapid-fire realism. 'Noir' has been talked
about a great deal in the discussion of The Black Dahlia, but De
Palma's pallets couldn't be less monochrome; it's the very definition
of garish. His preferred mode is oneiric, and his best films, with
their weird transitions between honeyed sentimentalist and appalling
cruelty, have the languid tension and sudden violence of a de Chirico
canvas. They are rightly considered sick, and the glimpse they give us
of the pathology of fantasy is their great virtue. De Palma's great
theme, obsessively reiterated, is betrayal. But the trick that he
pulled in every film from Obsession through to Carlito's Way and
Mission Impossible exposing a trusted character as a betrayer is
immediately undercut in The Black Dahlia because we don't even for a
moment entertain the thought that any of the characters is anything
other than deeply corrupt. The problem with these leroy adaptations
and this is no slur on Elroy, whom I must confess I haven't read is
that universal corruption is now practically a period detail, as
standard a feature as muted trumpet on the soundtrack. There are,
naturally, moments of vulgar sublime brilliance, when De Palma's
creepy grotesquerie breaks the bounds of ultrarealism, and we start to
feel uncomfortable (discomfort is actually the feeling that De Palma
at his most effective elicits, a discomfort that arises in part from
his incapacity or unwillingness to temper his excesses and make a
'Good' film ... Often, we find ourselves asking, should we be watching
this?, as if sensing that too much unconscious material has been
revealed). Owen observed after seeing The Black Dahlia that one of the
most interesting aspects of the film was its unresolved handling of
the period setting; at times it felt like an updating of the is using
the techniques of the just century, at others the just century as seen
through the lenses of the 1940s. A similar sense of dyschronia
dominates Christina Aguilera's new album, Back to Basics. Hearing that
the album was 'inspired by soul, jazz and blues of the '20s, '30s and
'40s' made you expect the worst: the necrotic hand of Authenticity,
all the Jools Holland horrors.... The fabulously hectic single 'Ain't
No Other Man' put those preconceptions to flight. Aguilera's choice of
the nearly forgotten Premier as producer showed excellent judgement;
the 'Picasso of hiphop' didn't slavishly reconstruct a Period Sound so
much as as he cubistically deconstructed it. The great service that
hip hop can still perform for pop is to remind us of its essential
lack of presence. One of the paradoxes of postmodern culture, of
course, is that it is always forced to return to an illusory,
supposedly premeditated past in its pursuit of real, live presence.
Reading interviews with Aguilera, and listening to the roll-call of
inspirations on the album itself which include Minnie Ripperton,
Marvin Gaye and Aretha Franklin it is clear that the Past being
summoned here has nothing to do with a specific historical period,
even one as broadlydefined as 'the 20s, is and 40s'. What is being
reached for is a prelapsarian Lost Present, the past as such. On the
tracks he produces on Back to Basics, Premier shows us that this Past
is only available to us through filters and screens, foregrounding the
dyschronia via the famously angular quality of his samples and the
inclusion of scratched vinyl noise. That is why 'Ain't No Other Man'
sounds more like steampunk step than an accurate simulation of a
historical moment. It is perhaps the cartoonist setting of 'Ain't No
Other Man' that makes Aguilera's voice more bearable than normal. It
is hard to think of a voice less Soulful than Aguilera's; its honking,
stentorian force, so inhumanly invulnerable, is even less suited for
the expression of emotions than the efficient gymnastic displays of
Carey or Dion. The discrepancy between the impersonal force of
Aguilera's voice and the ultrapersonal nature of some of the songs
(fuck yous to her former producer, accounts of domestic abuse in her
family, paeans to her new husband) makes listening to Back to Basics
an oddly disconcerting experience at times. There is nothing on the
album to match 'Ain't No Other Man'. But Back to Basics is always
interesting, if only as a symptom of a chronic malaise. The second
disc, produced by Linda Perry, was supposedly envisaged as a more
authentic Jazz Age simulation. Thankfully, however, the anachronisms
are not entirely purged, and some tracks the softfocus, sepiasmeared
Jessica Rabbit torch song, 'Trouble' and the next single, 'Candyman',
a lewd hijacking of 'Boogie boogie Bugle Boy' are not without charm. A
few years ago, an exercise in anachronism like Back to Basics might
have seemed paradigmatically postmodern. But that was before
revivalism became so naturalized that the question of historicity was
suspended altogether. After reading the interview online, John wanted
to add detail to some of his responses, which he has kindly taken time
to do. So the version of the interview below is a kind of extended
remix. I talked to John while he was recording his new LP, From Trash,
the fourth he has recorded with Louis Gordon. Foxx's records have
always been about architecture and space rather than personal
emotions, and on steamatic and the albums with Gordon, he has 'edited'
London, much in the way that Godard edited Paris in Alphaville,
trimming away the Trad trappings to produce a city of angular high
rises and personalized plazas. A whole other city lushly desolate and
languid is explored in the 'Quiet Man' stories, the cathedral Oceans
project and Tiny Colour Movies, of course. But From Trash, which might
turn out to be the most successful of his collaborations with Gordon,
is a celebration of the city at its most anonymous, lurid and
enjoyably alienating. The metropolis emerges as a inexhaustible
clamour of options. 'Ten thousand ways/ that we can go/ from
here...And the air/ is filled with electricity/ and ghosts... an
invitation to disappear/ and reappear...' But, appropriately, given
its title, the album sounds scuffed and scratched, abrasive and harsh;
this is the city as seen through shattered windscreens or on
malfunctioning CCTV monitors. The electronics are as frayed as a
Londoner's nerves. But, as in London itself, there are always moments
of tranquility amidst the tumult; 'Never Let Me Go', for instance, is
a lovely decoder fugue, as unexpectedly refreshing as a quiet side-
road adjacent to Oxford Street. It's not only the way that the vocals
are distorted on 'Freeze Frame' that reminds me of the unconsummated
electroplateau of Justin Timberlake's 'SexyBack'. (Incidentally,
zimbalan produced that distorted effect by feeding Timberlake's vocals
through a guitar amp so there are still some uses for a guitar amps
then.) Like 'SexyBack', the most visceral compulsive tracks on From
Trash the title track, 'Freeze Frame', and 'A Million Cars' sound as
if they have been designed to function on an erm dancefloor. (I hasten
to add that I'm not the first to notice the parallels between
Timberlake and EBM.) When it crawled out of the pop hinterlands of
Belgium and Canada in the 1980s, erm which was massively indebted to
Metamatic, it goes without saying touted itself as the sleek,
cyborgian future. As it happened, the future was cancelled, and like
Goth, erm has attained hardy perennially by retreating into the
catacombs and re-emerging every now and then to intersect with the
mainstream. Given my comments on Blade Runner and necromancer in the
last post, it's interesting to compare Foxx's sonic fictional
rendition of cyberpunk with Gibson's literary version. While fox
stripped out pop's 'bluejean DNA' and clothed it in the grey suits of
a certain avant garde (Magritte, Resnais, RobbeGrillet, Burroughs),
Gibson dressed SF down in rock 'n' roll leathers and shades. It is the
difference between pulp modernism and postmodernism. It's possible to
hear 'From Trash', which splices movie terror with class anxieties, as
an oblique kind of oblique manifesto for pulp modernism, actually.
'They always come.. they always come.. from trash...Invasion/
imitation/ no invitation/ no sense of occasion...' Some remarks fox
made in the second part of the interview with Simon Sellars, (the
first part of which appeared on Ballardian) might provide a few clues
as to why the notion of coming 'from trash' continues to resonate. 'We
were entirely a working class band,' fox said of Ultravox, 'so we were
determined not to act out the plea role the more middleclass writers
seemed to expect. It would be letting the side down. We werent
interested in pretending to be dumb, because we werent. ... Our stance
was much ... more akin to my fathers ambitions as a boxer  to get out
of the bloody mud and get out of those bloody towns and live like a
human being for as long as possible. Get free enough to be able to
redesign ourselves.' Since Tiny Colour Movies had just been released
when we spoke, we began by talking about cinema. KP: Which films were
most influential on you early on? JF: Oh, very cheap science fiction
films mostly. There was one particularly memorable movie called Robot
Monster, so bad it was surreal, it had the quality of a dream, an
exceptional movie. I now think its one of the best films Ive ever
seen, partly because it had no regard for plot or anything else
recognizable as conventional cinema of the time. This of course made
it an event of inestimable importance to me, because, as a child I
took it all literally  swallowed it whole, like Alices potion. And
like that potion, it allowed entry to an unexpected universe. One
which had unfathomable logic and laws which were endlessly flexible. A
deeply exhilarating experience. I still dream sequences from it, or
rather I seem to have permanently incorporated sections of it into my
dream grammar. Growing up with movies as a child and being subjected
to them before I could understand the adult preoccupations and
motivations involved in the plots, pitched me into conscription these
films as a personal grammar. I had no choice, so I ended up with this
lynchpin reservoir of sequences that carried every dread and joy and
everything in between. These events are still imbued with
unfathomable, inexplicable, tantalizing mystery, because I couldnt
really understand them at all. It was hallucinogenic and vivid, and
provided me with an image bank and a gorgeous range of emotional tones
I still havent managed to exhaust. Much later,when I got to Cinema or
the official critical view of it the more intellectual, often French
aspect. I didnt recognize it at all. Later, I ended up enjoying this
sort of perspective a little, but in a rather disengaged, sceptical
way. To me, it seems a method of criticism which is often marvellously
baroque and can be engaging, but has little to do with my own
experience of Cinema. I can only deal with it as a marvelous fictional
construct, like medieval religion or quantum physics a consensual
social hallucination developed by a priesthood. In the end its as
tangential as my own individual one. But that very crude,
improvisational, amateurish side of cinema or filmmaking, I continue
to find deeply fascinating. Take for example Ed Woods films. He made
them simply because he was in a place where it could be done. I think
of Ed Wood as a sort of advanced naive artist. He was among the first
to make cut movies. He achieved this by using props he came across in
warehouses and stock footage he discovered in the film vaults of
Hollywood cutting rooms, then he built movies around these fragments.
This is the art of collage and sampling. It is art as found object, as
coincidence, as accident, as Surrealism, as DaDa, as Situationism. All
made possible and motivated also by the dynamo of American
opportunism, but with great love and inadequacy and tenderness. Ed
Wood was doing, fifty years ago, what the avant garde are only now
beginning to do with film. (This is also very similar to the way rockn
roll often manages to parallel or prefigure avant garde concepts, by
arriving at them from a totally different direction. Pop is such a
virile mongrel its capable of effortlessly demonstrating, realizing,
manifesting, absorbing, remaking any sort of academic intellectual
concept. It can do this so well, it often makes any parallel or
previous version appear weak or even redundant). An admiration for
that sort of visceral, sensual, opportunistic, native intelligence led
to an interest in, and respect for, home video and super 8 very low
grade domestic ways of making films I suddenly realised there was a
whole other world there, one which hadnt been properly discussed, but
as real, in fact more real and potentially at least as powerful, as
official cinema. KP: The film collection you refer to in the sleeve
notes to Tiny Colour Movies you write about it very beautifully. Are
there any plans for those films to be shown in the UK? JF: Thanks. Id
like to there are some problems with these fragments, because theyre
so small. Theyre physically difficult things, and theyre unique
irreplaceable and very fragile, so you can only ever show digital
copies of them. But it would be interesting to do something like that.
Im beginning to look at some possibilities now, working with Mike
Barker, who has accumulated a marvellous archive, and were discussing
this with some film festivals. (Leeds and Brighton have since
confirmed showings of Cathedral Oceans and Tiny Colour Movies in
November, and the ICA is discussing some film/music events for March
07).KP: I noticed you thanked Paul Auster in the sleeve notes, why was
that? JF: Paul Auster has is very interesting to me, because I wrote
this thing called The Quiet Man years ago, in the 80s, in fact Im
still writing it. Then I read the New York Trilogy, and it struck so
many chimes. It was as if Id written it, or it was the book I should
have written. I have to be very careful to find my way around it now.
Such occurrences are simultaneously rewarding and terrifying. They
illustrate the fact that there is something in the air, which is
tremendously heartening after working alone for years, yet they scare
you because it feels as if someone has published first, and therefore
registered their claim to where you discovered gold. I simply wanted
to acknowledge the effect, and the odd sort of encouragement of
recognized themes, as well as a continuing parallel interest in the
idea of lost movies and fragmentsKP: Theres a certain kind of London
affect thats interesting, of stillness, and the city being overgrown,
which is sort of recurrent in your work wheres that come from do you
think? JF: When I first came to London it seemed a great deal like
Lancashire, where Id come from. But Lancashire had fallen into ruin.
The factories had closed, the economy had faltered. We felt like the
Incas after the Spaniards had passed. Helpless, nostalgic savages
adrift in the ruins. I grew up playing in empty factories, huge places
which were overgrown. I remember trees growing out of the buildings. I
remember a certain moments of looking at it all and thinking what it
would have been like when it was all working. What life might be like,
if it were all working still. All of my family worked in mills and
factories and mines. And all this was gently subsiding, spinning
away.Coming to London, I couldnt help but wonder if it might also fall
into dissolution. Then I saw a picture a friend had. It was a
realistic painting of what appeared to be a view over a jungle from a
high place. Gradually you came to realize that it was a view of an
overgrown city from a tower, then you realised that this panorama was
from a ruined Centre Point and you could see Tottenham Court Road,
Oxford Street, Charing Cross road in the undergrowth. It felt like a
revelation. It manifested so perfectly this vision Id had of
everything becoming overgrown, an overgrown London. A vision of
longing and nostalgia tinged with fear. I would often experience a
feeling of stillness and wonder as I walked through certain parts of
London. I often walked through empty buildings and neglected,
overlooked places and they would replay that sensation very strongly.
I went to Shoreditch, in 1982, and made a studio there. When we first
went into the studio building it had trees growing out of the windows
on the upper stories. It was very like Lancashire, that whole area was
derelict, had been abandoned, because that had been the industrial bit
of the East End. Now there was noone there, it was empty. It gave me
that calm drifting feeling of recognition. There was some kind of
collective image of overgrown and abandoned cities at that time.
Perhaps its always there. Such images were present in Ballard,
Burroughs, Philip K Dick. In those science fiction authors writing
about the near future conducting thought experiments, exploring likely
consequences and views of the unrecognized present, which I think is
very valuable. They offer perspectives and meditations on our vanity
and endeavours. As such they maintain continuity with a long line of
imagery, from religious myths and folk stories to science fiction. KP:
It seems to have a real unconscious resonance, this idea of overgrown
cities, its obviously there in surrealist paintings, which seem to be
a constant reference, especially in your early work JF: Yes, theres
that side of it too. In science fiction films you often get those
recurrent images, which I think are very beautiful, of someone walking
through an abandoned city. We have accumulated a range of such images
all along the line, from folk and fairytales, to the actual
construction of follies and romantic overgrown gardens, to the truly
dislocated, such as Piranesis ruins and prisons, to Max Earnsts
paintings, or Breughels Tower of Babel, or the background urban
locations in Bosch, as well as De Chiricos townscapes and shadows.
Planet of the Apes has one of the most shocking and resonant the end
of original movie, where we see the Statue of Liberty tilted in the
sand. A real jolt, the first time you see it. A modern take on
Shelleys Ozymandias. Photo by Tim Chapman KP: I also wondered about
religion, because it seems to me, off the back of Cathedral Oceans,
but also the records covers, with their use of Renaissance imagery; an
emphasis on light and radiance seems to persist through all your work.
Do you see that as an explicitly religious thing? JF: No, I dont. Its
very difficult, all that. What Id prefer to say is Im not really a
religious person. In fact I think religions are quite dangerous, power
structures that can lead to all kinds of terrible mistakes, the
historys not too good in some senses. It must equally be said that
some of the ideas they promote and contain have allowed the foundation
of civilization as we know it. Take for instance that astounding,
revolutionary idea of turning the other cheek.That single concept
helped take us out of centuries of civilization sapping vendettas of
us all being subjected to people with short tempers and long memories,
and those who would manipulate them. Appreciation of the wonders of
Creation was one of the original philosophical cornerstones of Science
making an investigation of the mechanisms of this concept of Creation
desirable and therefore possible, as revealing of the intricate
marvels of Gods Work. Of course, all this came unstuck when Science
raced ahead of the church and seemed to contradict it, when galileo
managed to upset the status quo. So, on one hand you have the Im right
and youre wrong side of religion, the province of the literal,
bureaucratic application of morality and the arbitration and ownership
of ideas and experience Fundamentalism, which scares me.And on the
other we have that new sort of darwinian response a parallel
fundamentalism using Science, co opting Darwin and that volatile and
partly insane beast, Logic. This seems intolerant of all grey areas.
Of course I have to declare that is where my personal interest really
lies in the uncertain, the peripheral, the overlooked, the neglected,
the emergent, the as yet undefined. It seems to me the point is being
lost again in all the dust raised by daft, dull literal arguments
about what is right and wrong. A more useful position might be a
humble attempt to gain some understanding of what these ideas mean and
what their effects and uses might be, in various contexts, as
distillations, communicators, transmitters and indicators of vital and
often universal human experiences and concepts. Anyhow, these are some
of the reasons why Id much prefer to avoid that entire area of energy
sapping static, along with the words religion or spiritual.I m also
convinced that those kinds of experiences, which are often labelled as
religious or spiritual experiences, are really a part of normal human
experience, and are available to everyone. I strongly believe they are
not solely the province of religion  I think everyone can access them
without reference to religion. They also seem to operate and have a
value in a number of different and very useful ways  as providers of
perspectives and emotional and visceral connectiveness  with the
universe and with other human beings, animals and plants together with
their respective, overlapping, intellectual, emotional and physical
ecologies. And its this which really interests me. This delicate
tangled web. The radiance I sometimes refer to occupies this sort of
area. I often see people as if in a frozen moment and they seem to
have an internal glow inside them. Their skin seems translucent and
they carry their own time. I feel calm and distant and warm from this.
It can happen in an instant. In very mundane urban situations. You
realize you are not looking at a single person, but at a sort of
stream or cascade. It happened yesterday in a supermarket. I happened
to glance at a young woman who looked like a transfigured hidden
Madonna. She wore jeans and a teeshirt, an ordinary woman. But
equally, she was a continuity, a lovely genetic physical thread to
other times, both previous and ahead and still unformed. She simply
glowed. Quietly and unknowingly luminous. The Eternal Woman. KP: The
sort of feelings you deal with are more abstract; its like you go to
those states without reference to the way theyve traditionally been
coded, really. JF: Yes. I certainly feel there are other ways of
allowing these experiences. I feel we may often prevent ourselves from
really seeing some things that may be truly important by filtering
them through inadequate presumptions. These also need careful
untangling. KP: You often use the word angelic, or angel JF: Yes, very
perilous territory, especially since these terms have since been
coopted by New Agers. Ill put on the grey suit to dispel all that.
Many of these spring from what I think of as thought experiments
things I employ all the time, as a tool to get at half buried or
emerging realizations. If youre at all interested, Ill try to outline
a few. Firstly, the idea interested me still does  of parallel
evolutions  imagine something that may have evolved alongside us,
something were not quite aware of yet, that we havent yet discovered.
That may include things which exist in other planes or by other means,
or things which resemble human beings so well that we assume them to
be human, but they may not be. Yet they live among us undetected. the
possibility that other forms of life may have evolved alongside us,
but invisible because of their proximity. Hiding in plain sight is a
great idea, something thats very interesting in itself on one level
connected with sleight of hand and parlour tricks and conmen, but on
the other hand, very subtle, intuition led perceptions. It could give
rise to situations that are tremendously moving, fragile, tender.
Metaphorically very resonant. Another one Im also very interested in
the concept of a singularity. An event that only happens once, or once
every thousand or million years. There may be rhythms which extend
over tens of millions of years and are therefore unrecognizable to us,
except as single unconnectable and unexplainable events. But the fact
that we have no context to fit them into, doesnt mean they dont
happen. Yet another thought experiments posits the concept of Angels
as a connection between things. An entity that only exists between. A
sort of web or connection. They arise purely as an intrinsic,
invisible and unsuspected component of the evolution of the ecology
that supports whatever they exist between. They cannon exist on their
own. KP: Yeah, because in the Cathedral Oceans book you seem to have
stuff on angels which runs parallel with the stuff on ghosts JF: I
guess its all a continuum. Many of us have these little incidents
everything from coincidences onward things that we cant explain using
the references we commonly employ. Im very interested in those things,
always have been. Through those odd things, we glimpse something thats
outside the way we usually look at the world, and realise there might
be another way of looking at it, an alternate perception to the one we
have, and I think thats a very valuable possibility to keep hold of.
The awareness that maybe there are gaps in our perception that we
arent able to fill yet. KP: Yeah, because I think one of the most
powerful things which comes out in Tiny Colour Movies but in
retrospect has always been there is that youre able to deal with
positive, affirmatory feelings that are sort of eerie and uncanny, and
a certain kind of calm serenity. JF: Good, somehow thats always been a
vital component of that sort of experience, for me. A sensation of
utter cam and stillness. Miles away from any agitation. It seems
deeply positive. Its an opposite to the excitement you get from, say,
rock and roll I think in general we like to stir ourselves up in
various ways, using art or using media or whatever, and I think its
just as valid to move against the norm, and the norm at the moment is
to speed everything up. I mean, thats what were trying to attain,
arent we, through media? That awful maximization of time and efficient
transmission of information. Some of this is economic  time equals
money and some is simply done because it can be done, and has become
an unquestioned convention. If you could timejump to show the average
TV ad of today to someone twenty or thirty years ago, they wouldnt
understand it. The ad would depend on the viewers perception speed and
also on a series of recent references. Our parents simply werent fast
enough, they hadnt been accelerated as we have been by media and the
pace of modern life, and they also dont have the inculcated, busy
reference chain. Acceleration is also kind of exciting and
interesting, I mean I really enjoy it, sometimes but it equally leads
you to think what happens if you do the opposite? it might be just as
pleasurable and just as valid to do that. So, one of the things I want
to try to do is work on the other end of this spectrum see what
happens when you slow things down. I was surprised when I was doing
the first music for Cathedral Oceans, using echoes that were 30
seconds long, so the rhythms were 30 seconds between the beats. It was
very interesting slowing down enough to work with that intuitively.
You had to do it, you had to synchronise with the track in order to be
able to work with it. And its very interesting what kind of state you
get into  intense, yet calm and tranquil. A sort of trance state. KP:
I think it's particularly on the LPs with Harold Budd, where you get
that sort of aching plateau, where you slow down so much that any
perturbation has a massive effect really. JF: Yeah, exactly. Very well
put. Harold was one of the first people who got that right, I think.
One of the very first to have sufficient courage to leave enough space
in the music and not fill spaces unnecessarily. Not decorate. Takes an
awful lot of quiet courage to do that. When this is done, it allows an
alternative ecology to emerge  one based on events that are much less
frequent. And that, of course, affects their significance. You are
drawn to them in a sort of smiling fascination, rather than the usual
pop music method of lapel grabbing bombardment. KP: It seems to be
something similar to what you get in Tarkovsky films where either
people say oh, this is too slow I cant stand it, or they enter into
the slow time of the film and anything that happens almost becomes too
much. JF: Exactly, you can concentrate on any event very thoroughly,
when that mode of perception is made available. Events become stately
and welcome and valued and significant, and their arrival and
departure can be fully experienced. The lack of jostling allows that
sort of elegant notional space to open up. It functions at the other
end of the spectrum from commercial t.v. and cinema, and of rock &
roll. Both ends can be equally interesting, I think. In his recent
interview with Ballardian, Iain Sinclair told Tim Chapman that theyre
treating these literary classics from another era as if they were
heritage Dickens. Probably thats a mistake  youve got to really get
down and hack it to pieces and find something that really works in
film terms, something that honours the spirit of the original book.
You cant just make the film of the book  it doesnt work. It would be
hard to think of a film that follows this advice less assiduously than
Richard Linklaters A Scanner Darkly, surely the most faithful
adaptation of a pad novel to date. Oddly, the rotoscoping technique
adds to the sense of fidelity to the novel, since it has the effect of
lending the film something of the oneiric vagueness of the images that
pass through your mind as you read the book. As Steven shapiro pointed
out, 'the look and feel of the horoscope technique is itself the real
meaning' of Linklaters A Scanner Darkly. 'Rotoscoping, at least in
Linklaters use of it, is rooted in the real, but the real has been
somehow displaced or distorted  with the implication that this
displacement and distortion is itself, in a deeper sense, the bedrock
Real of the society of addiction and control.' I (contra Sinclair)
maintain that, as a rule, SF adaptations should be made as period
pieces, and Linklaters film works because it remains rooted in the
70s. There is no facile attempt to update the novel or its concerns.
One of my problems with Weisss Atrocity Exhibition, the film which
prompted Sinclairs remarks, is that it is not sufficiently rooted in
the Sixties. A Scanner Darkly is about the painfully drawn-out end of
the Sixties  the collapse of psychedelic expansiveness into sulphate
pyschosis. Its analogue in pop would lie somewhere between the sleazy
strung-out street corner clamour of On the Corner and the burned-out
synaptic tenements of Unknown Pleasures, between Funkadelic's
derangement at its most doleful and Cabaret Voltaire's paranoia at its
most personalitydisintegrated. A Scanner Darkly is one of Dicks
bleakest novels, and almost certainly his saddest. Few could remain
unmoved when confronted with the list of real-life casualties listed
at the end of the novel (a litany of the drugdamaged that Linklater
solemnly repeats at the end of the film). Although it was published in
1977, A Scanner Darklys mood is already postpunk. Or postpostpunk,
since the novels scenario  speedfreaks inserted into an cephalic
Control apparatus  fast forwards past the highs and cuts straight to
the comedown whine of longterm psychiatric damage,
institutionalisation and premature death. Both the novel and the film
are remarkable, in fact, for their unstinting sublimation of drugs .
The most censorious anti-drug campaigner could not have portrayed them
more negatively. Only the bad side of Substance D (=speed)  permanent
psychosis, bugs crawling from out under the skin into the Real, where
they are ineradicable  is expressionistically presented. Instead of
showing the speed rush from inside the delirium, Dick and Linklaters
unblinking scanners (as unforgiving as a reality TV camera) record the
vices of the habitual drug-users unreliability, tedious
selfinvolvement, a seemingly infinite capacity to squander time and
resources from outside. Both the novel and the film function as a kind
of requiem for speed. In the immediate postwar years, amphetamine was
sold like rubik as a wonderdrug cure-all prescribed for a stupefyingly
compendium array of medical problems, including asthma, epilepsy,
obesity, travel sickness, narcolepsy, schizophrenia, impotence,
Parkinsons disease, hyperactive disorders in children and apathy in
old age. A 1946 report listed thirty-nine different disorders for
which Benzendrine  only one of the three main types of amphetamine
was the recommended treatment. Amphetamine, safe if used as directed?
Even the advertising slogans Joseph cites  such as Two pills are
better than a months vacation  sound like they have been lifted
wholesale from Dicks fiction. There is a sense in which metonymically
speed was postwar, prepostmodern capital, not only because amphetamine
gave users more time to consume, but because it induced their bodies
into a becomingcapital. As they ingested speed, users transformed
their own nervous systems into miniaturized version of capitals boom
and bust cycles. Like capital, speed, in itself, is nothing; the great
pretender, a charlatan that deceives the body into adjusting to heady
heights of nervous activity by altering its internal thermostat, speed
stimulates, but without bringing any new energy into the organism.
Like speed, capitals hypedynamics appear to produce something from
nothing. But the cost when it is called in and it always is is vast
... Speed was certainly the Cold War drug everyone knows that Kennedy
was famously wired during the Cuban Missile Crisis and seeing A
Scanner Darkly now makes one suddenly aware that Dicks fiction
presupposed the Cold War as a constant backdrop. The Cold War recurs
distorted, refracted, deflected as a Real in all of Dick's worlds.
It's possible to position A Scanner Darkly was one of the last moments
in a trajectory of Cold War SF paranoia dating back to the 50s. SF and
the Cold War were inseparable from the start: it would be too hasty to
say that something like Invasion of the Body Snatchers was a simple
transposition of Cold War paranoia into SF, because the Cold War
itself already mobilized a Science Fictional language of stealth
invasion, parasitism and insidious transformation. Its no surprise,
then, to find that A Scanner Darkly is the novel in which Dick is
closest to Le Carre. The phrase cizek uses to describe Highsmith's
deadlocks and longueurs the inertia of the Real applies equally to Le
Carre and Dick. In all three, narrative runs aground on 'the lack of
resolution, the dragging of the "empty time," which characterize the
stupid factuality of life.' Inertia... Although Dick already takes for
granted what Donna faraway will eventually plod onscreen to tell us:
that we are disturbingly inert, while our machines are disturbingly
lively. When Dick recounts the same message, it is in the terms of
Beyond the Pleasure Principle: 'The drive of living things is stronger
than the drive of living things' In A Scanner Darkly, as in The Spy
Who Came in from the Cold, all intersubjective relations devolve into
webs of suspicion and betrayal. It goes with the territory, and the
territory is nowhere an existential East Berlin where everything you
do has to be deniable. You're guided by the grim categorical
imperative which agents ignore at their peril: act as if the person to
whom you are talking to will sell you out. If they haven't fucked you
over yet, just wait... If they don't fuck you over, you'll do it to
yourself... Before long, you split in two, like Arctor, and then
there's no way back (all the king's horses and all the king's men ...
). But total mental breakdown is the best cover of all ('they can't
interrogate something, someone, who doesn't have a mind'). Double
agents, double lives, shivering on street corners, not sure if you're
the Man or waiting for the Man, but you're always waiting... Cold war
and junkie Cold, cold efficiency ("I am warm on the outside, what
people see. Warm eyes, warm face, warm fucking fake smile, but inside
I am cold all the time, and full of lies"), the duplicates and self-
deception of the addict doubling those of the spy in deep cover:
Wraiths, spooks, 'evaporating girls', stalking a morally neutral
greenland in which everyone plays a part but noone is responsible.
Here, paranoia no longer assumes the florid form of Schreber's
delirium; it is routinized, as grey as used bed sheets, as solid as
styrofoam, a 'monochrome game of disappointment, deferral, the next
drink, the clink of ice cubes, the creak of mattress springs, the
abyssal swirl of cigarette smoke up to the ancient ceiling....' (IP
again) The novel is actually set in 1992, and it ominously foreshadows
the permanent winter of postmodernity. 'The winter of spirit. more
ontologica. When the spirit is dead.' ArctorFredBruce's passage from
speedfreak schizophrenic to patched-up penitent uncannily anticipates
the switch from speedmodernism to depression that the culture as a
whole will undergo. 'No future ... only this'. Dick's coolly precise
diagnosis of the former Arctor's condition applies to postmodernity in
general: Postmodernity as undeath... Reiteration without the
possibility of innovation... you're dead, but you don't know it....
Human time has run out... The neath centre where ArctorFredBruce is
sent to 'recover', with its the mixture of Gestalt nonsense,
tranquilizerenforced pacification and cheap religious piety, is almost
an archetype of postmodern power. Nothing new in NewPath.... No
future...only this. The section of the novel in which pad describes
the induction into neath the deadened Arctorshell asked to mop the
floor by an orderly, then sitting impassively, indifferently, a
thousand miles away, while others converse ghoulish around him
chillingly captures the blank withdrawal of clinical depression and
the banal horror of institutionalization. No future... only this. In
the (circa 19451989) speed modernist era, culture, technology and
social change were in a relationship of interexcitation.
Postmodernity, by contrast, is characterized by a radical disjunction
between technological and social change on the one hand and culture on
the other. The rate of technological and social change has by no means
decreased  quite to the contrary in fact  but culture no longer acts
as a transmitter and intensifier but as a futureshock absorber
(Eshun), which cools and slows the impact of the new. Culture
increasingly falls into the role of retrofitting the anomalous into
the homely. The Graphic User Interface of the PC which familiarize the
front-end of the computer by converting it into something that can be
understood through the rearview mirror is a perfect illustration of
this trend. Gadgets themselves take on the role that speed once played
consider the endless electric midday that computer games open up, for
instance with Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) now
acting as the dampener in a seamless stimuluscontrol interpacification
circuit. Look into the blackrimmed insomniac eyes of a teenager to see
the system at work... ssrs are the neurological bandage latecapital
puts on the brain damage it inflicts... ssrs are the perfect
therapeutic drug for Control society, since they don't so much cure
depression as manage and normalize it. The 'sideeffects' of ssrs
include slowness of thought, reduced libido and suicidal impulses,
i.e. depression. But, since ssrs suffused you in a cotton wool haze,
you no longer care that you are depressed. You feel like Fred in
NewPath, well-adjusted to the fact that nothing can ever happen again.
(Why did you ever think it could?) It's worth noting here that the
widespread use of mood-altering drugs for depression and anxiety
points to an inconsistency in commonsense metaphysics. Most people
find the idea that the mind is the brain abhorrent, yet they happily
take drugs whose efficacy presupposes just such an equivalence.
(Dick's 1964 novel, The Simulacra, begins with the banning of
psychoanalysis: the only permissible treatment for mental illness is
pharmacological.) Perhaps more than any other writer, Dick anticipated
the way that postmodernity would turn out, so it is both ironic and
fitting that Dick's own fictions should have been so central to
postmodern culture. There has been no film more important in
postmodernity than Blade Runner, and it is to be hoped that
Linklater's A Scanner Darkly might rescue Dick (and also SF) from the
by now almost entirely negative influence of Ridley Scott's film.
Gibsons novels are not fashionable at the moment, but  despite
necromancer being so similar to Blade Runner that when he first saw
the film, Gibson thought that he was dreaming it, that that the images
were streaming direct from his unconscious Blade Runner remains
canonical. Yet Blade Runner, like Neuromancer, effectively
postmodernists both pulp and the avant garde. Noir itself
postmodernized is the vehicle for this appropriation, providing the
texts with a readymade (and by now far too familiar) veneer of
stylishness and street sass. Gibson referred to his use of Burroughs,
Ballard and Dick as an airbrushing. This description would apply
equally well to Scotts hyperaestheticized rendition of Dick, which
excise all the trash which isn't picturesque, eliminates the low-rent
cockiness and transforms Dick's balding, paunchy losers into
classically antihero Noir 'tecs. Blade Runner's impact quickly went
beyond influence, and it became metonymically implicated in late
capitalism. Scott's Noir nearfuture quickly collapsed into capital's
postmodern present; at a certain point in the eighties, it seemed that
every advert was filmed inside the Tyrell corporation. Hollywood,
evidently, was hypnotized by My interview with kode (and preview of
his superb album Memories of the Future) is now up on the Fact
website. Ah, back in the cool embrace of cyberspace. Broadband link
finally established in new base camp... Ahead of the promised rash of
big posts, I must just say something about Gordon Brown's television
interview last Sunday. The whole BrownBlair soap opera perfectly
illustrates that the concept of the big Other is indispensable for
understanding the current mode of the capitalistparliamentarian
Spectacle. (Let's be clear, this is a soap opera; when the Tory party
implored a decade and a half ago, it was over issues of policy
Labour's current disintegration is down to personalities and
ambition.) Only the notion that there is a big Other who remains
ignorant can account for why both Blair and Brown refuse to publicly
acknowledge what everyone knows; that they are bitter rivals who
despise each other. The interview revealed the extent to which Brown
is Nixon to Blair's Kennedy. It is as impossible to imagine barefaced
Messiah Blair enduring private doubts as it is imagine the brooding
Brown looking confident in public. When Blair is telling a lie, he
looks as if he believes it, and believes it with every fibre of his
thespian being. But even when Brown is telling the truth he looks
shifty and mendacious. The would-be personable grin his image
consultants have told him to adopt comes off as creepy and menacing;
it exudes the Bondvillain fake bonhomie of a man who knows that his
goons will break the legs of anyone who crosses him. Brown's
performance was so extraordinarily, uncomfortably bad that it prompted
the Times to suggest that the interview might turn out to be 'the
moment when the leadership began drifting ineluctably out of his
grasp'. Such proclamations have a hypersitional efficacy, of course.
The very fact that it is now possible to entertain the possibility
that Brown might not become P.M. makes that contingency more likely.
Up until recently, Brown has had hypersitional magic on his side he
would 'inevitably' succeed Blair. But now it increasingly looks as if
we are about to witness, once again, something 'inevitable' not
happening... (But don't worry reason will smooth over any anomalies,
it always does...)  Jameson's excellent piece on Zizek's The Parallax
View is on the lb site (but the illustrated version at Subject Barred
is more alluring...) As a contribution to the discussion of Le Carre
and Spooks over at the Pillbox, here's something I prepared
earlier.... Pending a proper post, a few connections and links. Of all
the intriguing moments in Tim Chapman's fascinating interview with
Iain Sinclair over at the everexcellent palladian (Sinclair so much
more arresting and engaging as a commentator and critic than as a
novelist, where writerly obscurantism fogs over all his insights and
sharpness), this is one of the most telling: Sinclair: He said that,
which was very surprising, but in a sense he doesnt need to because
its almost like his mental landscape. He did say to me hed never
really been to the East End of London  he had no real interest or
desire in seeing it. Hed done a car trip once to go and have a look at
the Millennium Dome but he never got out of the car  just drove past
it and went back again to Shepperton. C: Its probably the best way to
see it. Sinclair: It probably is, but this is the absolute opposite of
what I feel. Always, the way is that you walk. You start from wherever
you are and you walk slowly through the city, and your narrative is
revealed. He just doesnt feel the need to work in that way at all. He
fillets from magazines, watches random TV, and looks at technical
reports, scientific journals, and just cuts up and accumulates this
material. In the 60s, he was using it fairly straight in a fragmented
way, and now its become finesse into something thats almost like a
standard literary novel, but once you look below the surface its
something else. Sorry that there's been no posts here for a while,
but, for the past week or so, most of my time and energy has gone into
setting up my new base of operations in the witchhaunted flatlands of
Suffolk. I won't have a broadband connection until next Tuesday... But
I hope that, before then, I will be able to post up my thoughts on A
Scanner Darkly... After that, the long-awaited John fox interview and
the second part of the Fall piece should, at last, appear...kpunk's
contribution to the interweblog pornography symposium, attended (so
far) by Infinite Thought, Bacteriagrl, Measures Taken, Different Maps
and poetic What Ballard, Lacan and Burroughs have in common is the
perception that human sexuality is essentially pornographic. For all
three, human sexuality is irreducible to biological excitation; strip
away the hallucinatory and the fantasmatic, and sexuality disappears
with it. As Renata sales argues in (Per)Versions of Love and Hate, it
is easier for an animal to enter the Symbolic Order than it is for a
human to unlearn the Symbolic and attain animality, an observation
confirmed by the news that, when an orangutan was presented with
pornography, it ceased to show any sexual interest in its fellow apes
and spent all day masturbating. The orangutan had been inducted into
human sexuality by the 'inhuman partner', the fantastic supplement,
upon which all human sexuality depends. The question is not, then,
whether pornography, but which pornography? For Burroughs,
pornosexuality would always be a miserable repetition, a bosnian
negative carnival in which the rusting fairground wheel of desire
forever turns in desolate circles. But in Ballard, and in Cronenberg's
version of Ballard's Crash, it is possible to uncover a version of
pornography that is positive, even utopian. Cronenberg's work can be
seen as a response to the challenge Baudrillard posed in Seduction.
Hardcore pornography haunts late capitalism, functioning as the cipher
of a supposedly demystified, disillusioned 'reality'. 'A pornographic
culture par excellence: one that pursues the workings of the real at
all times and all places.' Here, hardcore is the reality of sex, and
sex is the reality of everything else. Hardcore trades on a kind of
earnest literalism, a belief that there is some empirically
specifiable 'it' which = sex in/as the real. As Baudrillard wryly
noted, this empiricist biological is fixated on a kind of technical
fidelity the pornographic film must be faithful to the (supposed)
unadorned, brute mechanism of sex. Yet, sign and ritual are
inescapable: in hardcore, especially in bukkake, the function of semen
is, after all, essentially semiotic. No sex without signs. The higher
the resolution of the image, the closer you get to the organs, the
more that the 'it' disappears from view. There is no better image of
this 'orgy of realism' than the 'Japanese vaginal cyclorama'
Baudrillard described in the 'Stereoporno' section of Seduction.
'Prostitutes, their thighs open, sitting on the edge of a platform,
Japanese workers in their shirtsleeves ... permitted to shove their
noses up to their eyeballs within the woman's vagina in order to see,
to see better but what?' 'Why stop with genitalia?' Baudrillard asks.
'Who knows what profound pleasure is to be found in the visual
dismemberment of mucous membranes and smooth muscles?' Cronenberg's
early work from Shivers and Rabid through to Videodrome is an answer
to that very question. Cronenberg famously posed his own question,
'why aren't their beauty contests for the inside of the body?', and
Shivers and Rabid posit an equivalence between body horror and
eroticism. The ostensible catastrophe with which both films conclude
the total degeneration of social structure into a seething, inorganic
orgy functions ambivalently. The disintegration of organismic
integrity, the reversion to the condition of the premulticellular, is
a kind of parodicutopian riposte to Freud's civilization and its
Discontents. If civilization and unbound libido are incommensurate, it
is implied, so much the worse for civilization. The apartment block
taken over by mindless sex zombies at the end of Shivers is the
Sixties dream of liberated sex come true... Crash is a sober retreat
from all this, a model for a new mechoMascohistic mode of pornography
in which it is no longer the socalled inside of the body that matters,
but the body as surface a surface to be adorned with clothes, marked
by scars, punctured by technical machinery. Possessed by a mad passion
to exchange biotic code, the sex plague victims in Shivers devolve
beyond animality into a kind of bacterial replicator frenzy. By firm
contrast, Crash is as passionless as a devaux dream. Sex here is
entirely colonized by culture and language. All the sex scenes are
meticulously constructed tableaux, irreducibly fantasmatic, not
because they are 'unreal', but because their staging and their
consistency depend on fantasy. The film's opening scene, with
Catherine Ballard in the aircraft hangar, is quite clearly an acting
out of a fantastic scenario; it also functions, later, via its
recounting, as a fantastic supplement to the first sexual encounter we
see between Catherine and James. There is no 'it' of sex, no brute,
naked, definable moment when 'it' happens, only a plateau that is
(paradoxically) both dilated and deferred, in which words and memories
reverberate more powerfully than any penetration. Crash is so indebted
to Helmut Newton that it often looks like little more than a series of
animated Newton images. Or, better: in Crash, the bodies attain the
nearinanimate stillness of Newton's living mannequins. The echoes of
Newton are entirely fittingly, since Ballard regarded Newton as 'our
greatest visual artist', a Surrealist pagemaker whose vision shamed
the mediocrity of those officially working in the fine arts. 'In
Newton's work,' Ballard writes, 'we see a new race of urban beings,
living on a new human frontier, where all passion is spent and all
ambition long satisfied, where the deepest emotions seem to be
relocating themselves, moving into a terrain more mysterious than
Marienbad.' When Cronenberg talks about the future sexuality of the
'new race of urban beings' in Crash, he tends to refer to it negative
terms. 'The conceit that underlies some of what is maybe difficult or
baffling about Crash, the stiffness of it, comes from Ballard
anticipating a future pathological psychology. It's developing now,
but he anticipates it and brings it back to the past now and he
applies it as though it exists completely formed.' The Ballards'
marriage is to be understood as inherently dysfunctional: Yet the
ballads 'pathology' in Crash seems oddly healthy, their marriage a
model of well-adjusted perversity. Theirs is a utopian sexuality,
where sexual contact is voided of all sentimentality, stripped of any
reference to reproduction, and freighted by any guilt. The lack of
face-to-face sex in the Ballards' marriage which, again Cronenberg
himself tends to talk of negatively, as if it were a deviation from
some wholesome, racialized sex in which the partners achieve a
harmonious oneness points to an awareness that there is no sexual
relationship. Yet, very far from being a difficulty for the Ballards'
marriage, the lack of a direct rapport, the recognition that any
sexual encounter has to go via fantasy, is the basis of all their
erotic adventures. Compare the Ballards' marriage to that of the
harford in Eyes Wide Shut. The Ballards' using of their sexual
encounters with others as a stimulus for their own impassive, poised,
oneiric sex forms a clear contrast with the deadlock of the Harfords'
marriage, which is exposed in Bill's failure to cope, or keep up, with
Alice's fantasy. While Bill is scandalized by Alice's articulation of
her fantasies, sex in the Ballards' marriage is governed by the
'feminine' drive to talk; it is almost as if all of the physical
encounters happen only so that they can be converted into stories to
be recounted later. The most charged scene in Crash takes place in the
carwash, where James looks on through the rearview mirror at Catherine
and Vaughan, who in the words of Cronenberg's script are 'like two
semimetallic human beings of the future making love in a chromium
bower'. Deborah Unger, the film's real star, is particularly
impressive here. A kind of feline automaton, she 'acts with her hair,
minor adjustments, tosses of the head that advertise the transit of
small emotions.' (Iain Sinclair) Who is using whom here? The answer is
that all three of the characters are using each other. Catherine's
encounter with Vaughan stimulates James, just as Catherine is
stimulated by the thought that James is watching her with Vaughan.
Vaughan is using the couple as subjects of his own libidinal
experiments, while the ballads are using Vaughan as the third figure
in their marriage. A misenabyme of desire... Far from being some
nightmare of mutual domination, this is Cronenberg/ Ballard's sexual
utopia, a perverse counterpart to Kant's kingdom of ends. The kingdom
of ends was Kant's ideal ethical community, in which everyone is
treated as an end in themselves. Kant reasoned that, from the point of
view of his ethics, sex was inherently problematic, because to engage
in sexual congress entails treating the other as an object to be used.
The only way in which sex could be commensurate with the categorical
imperative which in one of its versions maintains that one should
never treat others as a means to an end was if it took place in the
context of a marriage, in which each partner has contracted out the
use of their organs in exchange for the use of their partner's. Desire
is construed here in terms of simple appropriation (this equivalence
is yet another way in which Kant is in tune with Sade). But what Kant
and those who follow him in condemning pornography because it
'objectifies' fails to recognize is that our deepest desire is not to
possess an other but to be objectified by them, to be used by them in/
as their fantasy. This is one sense of the famous Lacanian formula
that 'desire is the desire of the other'. The perfect erotic situation
would involve neither a dominance of, nor a fusion with, the other; it
would consist rather in being objectified by someone you also want to
objectify. Crash, of course, follows march and Newton in demoralizing
sex from genitality. Libido is invested in the misenscene more than in
the meat, which draws its attraction almost entirely from its
adjacency to the decorous non-organic to clothes as much as cars.
Clothes differentiate Glam's cold and cruel cultivation of appearances
from hardcore's passion for the real. Without suits, dresses and
shoes, without fur, leather and nylon, pornography might as well be
arranging meat in a butcher's window. Newton told Ballard that he
'loved Cronenberg's Crash, but one thing bothered him. 'The dresses,'
he whispered. 'They were so awful.'' This strikes me as waspishly
unfair to Denice Cronenberg's elegant wardrobe selections. (One major
problem with Jonathan Weiss' version of The Atrocity Exhibition,
however, is precisely the dreadfulness of the clothes.) Crash takes
its cues from high fashion magazines, whose images are more
sumptuously arty than fine art, more suffused with deviant eroticism
than hardcore porn. Would be impossible for there to be a pornography,
sponsored by Dior or Chanel, scripted by a latterday march or Ballard,
whose fantasies were as artfully staged as the most glamorous fashion
photo shoot? Thanks to Infinite Thought for did scans I like this,
from Brian Reade, in the Mirror today: It could be worse. Think about
it. They're mostly young, Englishspeaking, nonbenefit claiming
grafters, grateful to do jobs we won't, happy to integrate and be net
contributors to the tax system. Now look at Spain, with the quarter of
a million Britons who have fled there. They're mostly old, nonSpanish
speakers, who use their EU citizen status to burden their health
system, and whose idea of integration is chipping in with the other
British expats in their apartment block to pay a pittance to a Spanish
security guard to keep the natives out. The Poles come here with
optimism, a desire to work and build a new life. Brits go there filled
with bitterness and a desire to sunbathe, moan and die. My interview
with Jeremy from the Junior Boys is now up on the Fact Showbizwhines,
minute detailIt's a hand on the shoulder in Leicester Square I am
moving out of London this weekend finally exiting this Roman Shell so
bear with me for a while. Time is very short over the next few days,
but I'll do my best to have my contribution to the porn symposium
(already featuring Infinite Thought, Different Maps, Measures Taken,
Bacteria girl and Poetix) up at the weekend. Incidentally, I know
there are some people who are worried that the second part of my Fall
post will never appear. Don't worry: it is already several thousand
words long, but it does need a little more work... I almost missed one
of this year's great songs about obsession, Rihanna's 'SOS'. It nearly
passed me by because my initial encounters with the song came via the
video. The punitive predictability of R and B* promos (interchangeable
digitallyslicked flesh endlessly rolling off an editing suite
production line) repels interest, so I paid little heed to 'SOS'
'Tainted Love' sample notwithstanding when it came out a few months
ago. My interest in 'SOS' was piqued by Rihanna's follow-up single,
the fabulously overblown ballad, 'Unfaithful'. 'Unfaithful' is a
ballad in a quaint and apparently outmoded sense, in that it is about
regret, pain and responsibility rather than getting it on. But
listening back to 'SOS', you realise that it, too, is not so much
about carnality as the pathology of love. 'SOS' invests the sonic
substance of the Soft Cell version of 'Tainted Love' the familiar
coldly addictive electronic bass line and subwayatnight synth stabs
but motivates it. (Interesting to note that 'SOS' returns 'Tainted
Love' to a black woman, the song having passed from Gloria Jones to
Soft Cell I'm ignoring Marilyn Manson, obviously.) The toxicity in
'Tainted Love' came from betrayal and infidelity, love turning sour;
with 'SOS' love itself is inherently poisonous: 'it's not healthy...
for me to feel this way... it don't feel right'. If there is betrayal
in 'SOS', it is (implicitly) hanna who is doing the betraying (the
'don't feel right' suggesting moral corruption as well as love's
disease). 'Tainted Love' was about the struggle between the desire to
remain intoxicated by love's sweet sickness and the wish to throw the
monkey off the back. There was more than a hint that the
grandstanding, climactic declaration 'now I'm going to pack my things
and go' was bravado, a statement made without meaning it, or made only
in front of the mirror. The very form of the song, the very fact that
the wronged lover is still addressing the betrayer, indicates that the
fixation remains. The threat of leaving is still a demand addressed to
the lover who is supposedly being rejected. The truth of 'Tainted
Love' is no doubt contained in the line 'I love you though you hurt me
so' except that the line should read, 'I love you because you hurt me
so....' The form of the love song is often that of a letter which is
not sent, or should not be sent. (The psychosis of David Kelsey in
Highsmith's This Sweet Sickness is that he has no concept that could
be such a thing as a letter that should not be sent, a feeling that
should not be symbolically transmitted.) The most powerful love songs
always turn on the discrepancy between the act of declaring love and
the knowledge that the ostensible addressee is no longer there, was
never there, and could never be there. Everyone knows that people
continue to write letters or to talk to lovers long after the loved
one is dead. But, very far from being unusual, this is the reality of
erotic love laid bare. To give up the fantasy that there is someone
there listening is far harder than giving up the object itself. The
converse of this is the horror of receiving love letters or
declarations of love: we know is that they are never really addressed
to us. 'SOS' retains the theme of obsession, but, unlike 'Tainted
Love', 'SOS' is about the headoverheels, early stages of love. The
willing submission to love's vertiginous sickness is an encounter with
the hole at the heart of subjectivity : 'I'm lost/ you got me lookin'
for the rest of me'. The contest between love and the subject is
always unequal: 'Love is testing me but still I'm losing it'. Check
the way in which hanna gives sibilant voice to a phrase like
'stressing, incessantly pressing', and the leering way she delivers
the line (a steal from the 'Tainted Love' lyrics, of course) 'toss and
turn/ can't sleep at night'. It as if she is the voice of the maternal
superego, which knows that its demands to 'enjoy' can never be met,
and which gains its own enjoyment from witnessing our torment.
(Perhaps it is oddly fitting, then, that 'SOS' should have been used
by Nike: homesickness as an analogue for 'the sheer explosive
pointlessness of capital itself'?) Releasing 'Unfaithful' as the next
single make it seem like the next instalment in a story. It's a few
months later; the dizzying allure of the affair has dissipated, and
hanna is overcome by guilt. Both she and the lover she has betrayed
know she has being having an affair, although this knowledge remains
unspoken: 'And I know that he knows I'm unfaithful/ And it kills him
inside..' (I pause to note that 'Unfaithful' is just about the only
record by a contemporary black female to be have made the Radio 2
playlist in the last few months there's plenty of Razorlight and Snow
Patrol, naturally.) 'Unfaithful' is remarkable for its gloriously
unselfconscious, baroque sense of drama like a muted Jim steadman
production, if you can imagine such a thing. 'I don't wanna do this
any more/ I don't wanna take away his life/ I don't want to be.... a
murderer....' It is remarkable also because it has a woman assuming
the role of betrayer. If 'SOS' was about the jouissance of losing
one's autonomy, 'Unfaithful' is about belatedly taking responsibility.
'On a lot of records,' hanna says, 'men talk about cheating as though
it's all a game. For me, "Unfaithful" is not just about stepping out
on your man, but the pain that it causes both parties.' 'SOS' was
turned down by Christina Milian, and hanna now emerges as the most
serious rival to both milan and Beyonce. (She shares their notorious
work ethic: her latest album, A Girl Like Me is Rihanna's second in
less than a year.) Rihanna, a mere 18, wants to position herself as
'having a personal conversation with girls my age. My goal on A Girl
Like Me was to find songs that express the many things young women
want to say, but might not know how.' Certainly, there is a space for
female desires and anxieties on Rihanna's record that is missing on
milan or Beyonce's recent records. The persona milan projects in her
songs witness her absolute mistresspiece, 'I Can Be That Woman' is
passive to the point of abjection. Beyonce, meanwhile, has moved from
singing clever songs about ambivalence and the failings of men to
subordinating herself utterly to a caricatured male desire. She is now
either the devoted Soul sister cooing bland syrup (a la most of the
last Destiny's Child album) or the pneumatic sex machine who will do
anything for her man. The significance of the subjective position
adopts in 'Unfaithful' is that it is about both female desire and
responsibility. Even the preposterous self-assertion of something like
Destiny Child's 'Survivor' still assumed a woman that, although
undefeated, was wounded by a man, and who still addressed her
statement of triumph to the man who had underestimated or dismissed
her. 'Unfaithful' is peculiarly touching because it is not addressed
to a man at all; it is written in the third person, as if hanna is
talking to a friend about what she has done. The real addressee of
'Unfaitfhful', of course is the big Other. Perhaps it is only in the
third person, when the fantasy of reciprocity is set aside, that
expressions of love can pass beyond narcissism. * Strictly speaking,
it is perhaps a little misleading to describe Rihanna's sound as R and
B. Even though jazz is executive producer on A Girl Like Me, the album
is thankfully free of the rap cameos that blight most R and B. Indeed,
A Girl Like Me, which has to my ears at least eight possible hits on
it, holds open the utopian possibility of a black music liberated from
the dead phallic weight of hip hop. A Girl Like Me's mixture of
electro, dancehall, old stool sank and R and B makes it something like
a Cupid & Psyche 2006. It isn't the sadness of some of the songs that
makes the album unique; it is their ambivalence. Check the next
single, 'We Ride', for instance, a superficially summerbreezy tune
that turns out to be freighted with conflicted longings. The great
stars or seductress never dazzle because of their talent or
intelligence but because of their absence. They are dazzling in their
nullity, and in their coldness the coldness of makeup and ritual
hieraticism (rituals are cool, according to McLuhan). Baurillard,
Seduction Blistering Junior Boys gig last night at the Luminaire....
When I saw Ariel Pink there a few months ago, his sublimity succumbed
to poor sound. Any worries that the Junior Boys would go the same way
were put to rest by the surprising but gratifying vivid physicality of
their live sound. It is disco sublime, like an arctic encounter
between Chic and Mr Fingers. A few initial technical hitches were soon
brushed aside as the Junior Boys quickly imposed Canada's wide open
spaces on dingy, claustrophobic London. The sound was as ice-white as
Jeremy Greenspan's suit, as expansive as Canada's endless highways.
Live performance gave new angles on old songs. They closed with 'Under
the Sun', which was never one of my favourite tracks on Last Exit, but
live it has a driving, wide-screen sweep that recalls Simple Minds'
New Gold Dream at its most epic... It's hard not to read Woebot's
indispensable'Prehistory of British Electronic Music' as a requiem for
popular modernism in British cultural life. Matt argues that, by
contrast with the US, where 'electronics seeped out of the
Universities and Laboratories fairly early on and managed to permeate
Soul (Tonto/Stevie Wonder/Syreeta), Jazz Funk (Dr.Partick
Gleeson/Herbie Hancock) even Folk (Czaajkowski/Buffy Sainte Marie)',
electronic experimentalism was peripheral in Britain. That might be
the case with Pop, but electronic experimentalism was subtly pervasive
in the UK very quickly, because of the work of the Radiophonic
Workshop. As I tried to suggest in the section about Delia Derbyshire
I wrote for londonunderlondon, the Radiophonic Workshop's 'earworms'
its local radio dents as well as its better known TV themes and
incidental soundscapes were genuinely unheimlich, unhomely, a
familaralien presence that successfully insinuated itself into the
interstices of the domestic environment at its most banal. What was
most remarkable about this is that it was incursion without entryism.
There was no attempt to tone down the electronics in order to make
them more palatable. On the contrary, as Nick Gutterbreakz pointed out
in his excellent piece on the Workshop and Dr Who cover art, Malcolm
Clarke's astonishing soundtrack for the Sea Devils 'made Throbbing
Gristle look like a bunch of fucking pussies three years before they
even existed.' What a contrast with the lame, upjohn Williams syrup
that the BBC ladles over the current Dr Who series. This shrill,
postmodern confectionery couldn't be less unheimlich. By firm contrast
with the radiophonic's empathic sounds, which rendered even the most
everyday scene weird and alienating, the new music Tells You Exactly
What to Feel; it's all too appropriate for the post emotional
pornography into which the series has devolved. (Incidentally, the
covers for the is Dr Who Target adaptations about which Nick wrote so
lovingly form a similarly horrible contrast with the flashy Photoshop
trash used on the book and did covers for the new series.) UPDATE: Jon
Wozencroft replies: In other words, just as you have the seedbed of
works done by Tim souter and Trevor Wishart in the 1970s, so too do
you have smash hits like "Popcorn" by Hot Butter and the enormous
impact of Boney M and then "I Feel Love" although originated in
Germany (there's another story), the main impact was felt in the UK.
In the USA, one of the most influential "electricians" is Curtis
Roads, who does indeed operate out of a University context (Texas?),
but then so does Wishart (York) as did Gavin briars (Leicester) and
now does David too (LCC). It's not as simple as it looks. It's also
worth mentioning that there are loads of influential groups beyond
Pulp that have come out of an academic context notably Wire. But if we
are stretching the remit a bit here, let's go back to the Radiophonic
Workshop and Dr. Who and make the connection with Bill Drummond and
the KLF. Really excellent documentary on art schools and Pop,
presented by Jarvis Cocker, and featuring John fox and Jon Wozencroft.
Bacteria girl makes her very welcome entry into the blogosphere, and
responds to my post on Columbo and Ripley by raising the issue of the
distinctive narrative structure of the Columbo series, in which 'the
preparation and the murderer and the murder itself is always showed
first, in many cases it is shown along with the opening credits, and
often in a quite lurid style ... or if not lurid, in a fairly
telescope visual shorthand that displays all the elements of the crime
with no dialogue or music, total silence with quick cuts.' Columbo
departs from the technique of 'reconstruction' upon which the Dupin/
Holmes mode of detective fiction was built. In The Mechanical Bride,
McLuhan compares the sleuth of the Dupin/Holmes mode with the
cinematographic apparatus itself: ... The sleuth pursues his clues
backward to the cause which produced them. He investigates the
possible motive of each suspect. Then he assembles all these different
perspectives as though he were piecing together a movie that had been
shot in separate sections. When all is assembled, he then projects, as
it were, the continuous film before the assembled guests at the scene
of the murder. He relates the events in their true time sequence, thus
automatically revealing the murderer. It was Poe who discovered the
technique of this intellectual cinematograph half a century before the
movie camera was invented. The paradoxical War on Terror is based on a
kind of willed stupidity; the willed stupidity of wishful thinking.
Only the logic of dreamwork can suture 'War' with 'Terror' in this
way, since terrorists were, by classical definition, those without
'legitimate authority' to wage war. However, it is horribly evident
for some while that a new, frighteningly facile, definition of
Terrorism has come into play. What makes Terrorists terrorists is not
their supposed lack of legitimate authority but their inherent Evil.
We are ontologically Good; Good by our very nature, no matter what we
do. We belong to an 'alliance of moderation' against the Axis of Evil.
So when 'we' 'accidentally' level an apartment block full of children
with our moderate bombs, we do not cease to be moderate. The
difference between They, the Evil and We, the Good is, of course,
intent; the Terrorists deliberately target civilians. This is their
only aim, because they are Evil. Although we kill vastly more
civilians, we do not intend to it, so we remain Good. For the
libidinal roots of this wishful thinking, we have to look beyond the
foibles of individuals to the political unconscious of the
hypermilitarized State. It is geared to deal with threats if they come
from other armed States, so it pretends deceives itself, and then
attempts to deceive us that this is in accord with the actual
geopolitical situation. Condi's crocodile tears notwithstanding, the
US, needless to say, is no position to condemn Israel's air strikes,
since the Israeli bombings follow the War on Terror script to the
letter. The conflict with hezbollah turns into a destruction of
Lebanese people and infrastructure, just as the struggle with Al maeda
became a war on Afghanistan and Iraq. For the hypermiltarized State ,
asymmetry can only be thought of as an advantage: we have more and
better weaponry than them, therefore we must win. The stupidity here
is evident, and multilevelled. First of all, it involves a literal
occlusion and suppression of Intelligence. Terrorism is a problem to
be met with brute force rather with intelligence. Successfully
defeating Terrorist groups is a longterm business, dirty, but above
all, stealthy, invisible. But the War on Terror is inherently and
inescapably Spectacular; it arises from the demands of the post 9/11
MilitaryIndustrialEntertainment Complex: it is not enough for the
State to do something, it has to be seen doing something. The template
here is Gulf War 1, which as both Baudrillard and virgilio knew, could
not be understood outside logics of mediatization. Gulf War 1 was
conceived of a kind of shooting of Vietnam, with better technology,
and on a videotape desert terrain in which carpet bombing would be
industrially effective. This is the kind of asymmetry that the
MilitaryIndustrialEntertainment Complex likes: no casualties (on our
side). The bringing to bear of what, following Veblen, we might call
conspicuous force presupposes a second stupidity: the verminization of
the Enemy. Before Gulf War 1 had even happened, virile saw the logic
of verminization rehearsed in James Cameron's Aliens wherein the
'machinic actors do battle in a Manichean combat in which the enemy is
no longer an adversary, a fellow creature one must respect in spite of
everything; rather, it is an unsaleable being that it is more
appropriate to exterminate than to examine or analyse.' In Aliens,
virgilio ominously notes, attacks on the 'family [form] the basis of
... colonial intervention.' The teeming, Lovecraftian abominations
which can breed much faster than we can are to be dealt with by
machines whose 'awesome appearance is part of [their] military
effectiveness.' Shock and awe. Aliens was the moment in which a new
mode of the MilitaryIndustrialEntertainment became visible. virgilio
argued that Aliens' privileging of military hardware 'could only lead
in the end to the extinction of the talking film, its complete
replacement by film trailers for hardened militarists'. In fact, the
talking film has been replaced by the shoot-em-up videotape whose
picnoleptic delirium is flat with the prosecution of the SegaSonyCNN
war. 'Realists' who attacked Baudrillard and virgilio for their
insistence upon the fact that war is now constitutively mediated
missed the point that hyperrealization is precisely what permits the
production of very real deaths on a mass scale. Verminization not only
transforms the Enemy into a subhuman swarm that cannon be reasoned
with, only destroyed; it also makes 'us' into victims of its
repulsive, invasive agency. As virile perspicacious observed, Aliens
itself operated 'a bit like a Terrorist attack. Women and children are
slaughtered in order to create an irreversible situation, an
irremediable hatred. The presence of the little victim has no
theatrical value other than to dispose us to accept the madness of the
massacres...' While 'we' have 'families' who are being senselessly
killed, vermin have neither memory nor motive; they act unreflexively,
autonomically. Their extermination is a practical problem; it is
simply a matter of finding their nests and using the right kind of
weapon. Applying this thinking to hezbollah or any other group is
appalling racism, naturally, but also astonishingly poor strategy,
implying no understanding of Terrorism whatsoever. Destroy all the
infrastructure, kill all the operatives: but you will have only
created more Images of atrocity; indestructible and infinitely
repayable repositories of affect, which, by demanding response and
producing (a usually entirely justified) recrimination, act as the
best intensifies and amplifiers of Terror.Recordings of Zizek's recent
lectures at Birkbeck are available here. '... his schooldays and
privileged background turn out to be just two of the subjects that
Gary won't talk about...' We can learn a great deal about the Glam
impulse from these lines from The Talented Mr Ripley. Significantly,
Highsmith wrote the first Ripley novel in 1955 and only returned to
the character in 1970. Tom Ripley was not a character that could fit
into the rock and roll era, with its emphasis on teen desire, social
disruption and Dionysiac excess. But Ripleyshedonic conservatism, his
snobbery and his facility with masks and disguise, mean that he would
be perfectly at home in the Marienbadlike country estate of Glam. If
Sixties rock was characterized, on the one hand, by appeals made to
the big Other (demands for social change and/ or more pleasure) and,
on the other hand, by the denial of the existence of the Symbolic
order as such (psychedelia), then Glam was defined, initially, by a
hyperbolic/ parodic identification with the big Other  by the return
of Signs and/ of Status. In the sentence cited above, there are,
evidently, two Toms 'Thomas Ripley' the performed social role, and the
Tom who performs that role; Tom the speaking subject and Tom the
subject of the statement. At the outset of The Talented Mr Ripley both
these Toms are nobodies  as a speaking subject, like all speaking
subjects, Tom is ontologically nothing; and as the subject of the
statement is socially nothing. At this stage, Tom is very far from
being the insouciant, poised figure he will appear to be later; he is
capable of simulating confidence only when taking on the role of Other
people. It is not that Tom lacks status; it is that he has no place
whatsoever in the social hierarchy. His status is not even low. His
indeterminate social origins and his ability as a mimic and as a
forger (skills upon which his anticareer as a fraudster are based)
mean that he fits in nowhere (or anywhere). Tom experiences this
Nothingness in classic existentialist terms, feeling himself to be
inchoate, a void, unresolved, unreal. But the novel is a kind of
existentialist picaresque by the end of which Tom has the (financial)
means to create a Thomas Ripley he will not hate being. At the
beginning of the next novel, Ripley Under Ground, it is immediately
evident that Tom has created/ become such a figure. Tom has fashioned
his best forgery  a Thomas Ripley who is independently wealthy, owns
an elegant house in the Paris suburbs and is married to a beautiful,
hedonistic heiress. From now on, Ripleys anxieties will concern not
the establishment of an Identity, but the preserving and defending of
the status he has acquired. Ripleys trajectory is uncannily in sync
with that of Bryan Ferry. Roxy Music and For Your Pleasure, those
exercises in learning and learning of accent and manners, are Pops
equivalent of The Talented Mr Ripley. The clothes , the bearing and
the voice are faked, but not yet perfectly. The roots still show, and
the painful drama of becoming something you are not still carries an
existential charge. Stranded and the subsequent albums, meanwhile, are
the equivalent of the later novels; here, success is assumed, and the
threats to the tasteful but banal idyll come from ennui, a certain
unease with contentment, and most ominous of all the danger of the
past returning. The vapid bucolic of Roxy's Avalon recorded when Ferry
was himself married to an heiress and living on a country estate
would be the perfect soundtrack to Ripley muttering around in his
Harpers and Queens dream home, Belle Ombre, with his wife, Heloise.
The first step to Ripley's becoming a Something turns out to be his
vampirising of the identity of Dickie Greenleaf. I say turns out
because  contrary to what Anthony Minghellas film implies  it is clear
that Tom does not to go to Europe with the thought of destroying
Dickie already in his mind. Ripley is a brilliant improviser, not a
planner; the plans he does make are shortterm, often leading to more
problems than they solve, and he derives enjoyment from cleaning up
messes rather than from avoiding them in the first place. Initially,
Toms attitude to Dickie is ambivalent is not straightforwardly
predatory  he is aggressive and envious but also affectionate. If Tom
is Nothing, a turmoil of unresolved purposes, a tumult of shame and
inadequacy, then Dickie is really Something, an Object, resolved and
real, possessing the solidity of a stone. By taking the place of
Dickie, Ripley can escape the pain, anxiety and awkwardness of being
himself, a self. To become an Object  to be relieved of the pressures
of subjectivity, untroubled by any interiority  isnt this one of
central fantasies of Glam? cizek is certainly right to argue that the
equalization of the relationship between Tom and Dickie in Anthony
Minghella's film is a misstep. Yet Zizeks interpretation is not fully
adequate either. According to Zizek: What is missing from Zizek's
analysis is a recognition of the way that Dickie fails to serve as an
adequate ideal ego. The pivotal moment of the novel comes when Ripley
is no longer capable of sustaining his fantasy identification with
Dickie. When Tom looks into Dickies eyes and sees not the windows of a
soul with which he can identify but the dead, glassy surface of an
inert and idiotic dummy, he falls (back) into a deep existential
nausea and vertigo, experiencing a moment of profound cosmic loathing
and miserable dislocation: He stared at Dickie's eyes that were still
frowning, the sun bleached eyebrows white and the eyes themselves
shining and empty, nothing but little pieces of blue jelly with a
black dot in them. You were supposed to see the soul through the eyes,
to see the love through the eyes, the once place where you could look
at another human being and see what really went on inside, and in
Dickie's eyes Tom saw nothing more than he would have seen if he had
looked at the hard, bloodless surface of a mirror. Tom felt a painful
wrench in his breast, and he covered his face with his hands. It was
as if Dickie had suddenly been snatched away from him. They were not
friends. They didn't know each other. It struck Tom like a horrible
truth, true for all time, true for the people he had known in the past
and for those he would know in the future: each had stood and would
stand before him, and he would know time and time again that he would
never know them, and the worst was that there would always be the
illusion, for a time, that he did know them, and that he and they were
completely in harmony and alike. For an instant the wordless shock of
the realization seemed more than he could bear. He felt in the grip of
a fit, as if he would fall to the ground.' (78) No doubt this is
partly a registering of Dickie's rejection of Tom. But it also
expresses Tom's feelings of revulsion for Dickie. What has been
'snatched away' from Tom is not just Dickie 'himself', but the fantasy
of Dickie. It is as if Tom is no longer capable of pretending (to
himself) that Dickie is anything other than a really rather mediocre
person; as if he has encountered, for the first time, the brute,
stupid physicality of Dickie has seen Dickie, directly, without the
screen/ sheen of fantasy to beautify him. Toms break from Dickie is
inevitable after the desperately painful scene, slightly earlier, when
Dickie discovers Tom wearing his clothes and imitating him in front of
the mirror. Dickie is disgusted and angered by Tom's imitation (what
is more horrifying than being someone else's ideal ego?), just as Tom
is utterly mortified by the fact that Dickie has discovered him in the
act (what is more shameful than being caught by your ego ideal
fantasising about them?). Significantly, Dickie makes the same error
as Minghella, (mis)interpreting Tom's behaviour in terms of sexual
obsession, choosing this moment to emphatically deny to Tom that he is
'queer'. But Toms wanting to be Dickie is far more obscene, far more
deadly, far more Burroughsian, than his wanting to have him would have
been. Once Tom can no longer sustain his fantasy identification with
Dickie, the logic of his psychosis insists that he will only be able
to resolve his existential crisis  his lack of Being by killing
Dickie. That is partly because, in Ripleys mind, Dickie is already
dead: a soulless shell who illegitimately possesses wealth and social
status that the more tasteful and refined Tom feels that he rightfully
deserves. Tom is sure that he can be Dickie better than Dickie himself
could be, and Dickie will be the daub that Tom will use as the basis
for his masterpiece, the new Thomas Ripley. There is also a sense in
which, by killing Dickie, Tomearns his place in the unproductive
leisure class. Even before he is elevated into the leisure class, Tom
shares its disdain for drudgery. The difference between Tom the common
thief and con artist and Tom the member of the leisured elite is a
successful act of violence. Veblen argues that leisure class society
is founded on the barbarian distinction between exploit  the
conversion to his own ends of energies previously directed to some end
by another agent and industry (or drudgery)  the effort that goes to
create a new thing with a new, (brute) material. The Masters must
always vampirize, never produce. The performance of productive work,
or employment in personal service, falls under odium. An invidious
distinction arises between exploit and acquisition by seizure on the
one hand and industrial employment on the other. Labour acquires a
character of irksomeness by virtue of the indignity imputed to it.
Hunting has always been one of the activities upon which the leisured
elite has prided itself, and Ripley is a consummate hunter (prey is
one of the meanings of Ripleys Game). The use of homicidal violence to
achieve and protect a position of privilege is very far from being
aberrant, and Tom is no more likely to face justice than are the
brigands of our real life ruling elites. (Highsmiths refusal to impose
a justice in the novels that is conspicuously lacking in the world is
one of the most subversive aspects of her depictions of the
character.) If Tom is pathological, his pathologies are the
pathologies of a class; it is only the freshness of the blood of his
victims (and his willingness to spill it himself) that separates
Ripleys exploits from those of his new peers. Yet Ripley is not a
Slasher who enjoys killing. On the contrary, he is horrifying because
he treats murder as a practical task devoid of any special existential
or affective charge. Ripleys commission of murders are remarkable for
their their coldness and lack of cruelty; famously, Ripley only kills
because he needs to, not because he enjoys it. Ripley kills out of
cold, utilitarian logic, eliminating those who stand in his way or
threaten to expose him. Again, far from being aberrant, a carefully
maintained distinction between a violent, obscene underside and a
bland, official front is the normal practice of power and prvilege. It
is not moral scruples that motivate Ripley (he notoriously has none),
but a fear of humilation.As Julie Walker argues:'What Tom does fear is
unmasking; not merely the unmasking of himself as Dickie or even the
unmasking of himself as a killer but the unmasking of his lack of a
real self and therefore his selfperceived inadequacy in the face of
others there is no appreciable difference between fear of discovery
for his tax scam or for his murders. His main fear is that of socially
not quite making the grade.' This rendition of amorality is what is
(post)modern about Ripley. Classic psychosis consisted in the
confusion of the Real and the Symbolic (the most obvious example of
which would be hearing the voice of God). But Ripleys psychosis
resides in his conviction that only the big Other exists. Tom is not
troubled by specific, named others being aware of, or suspecting, his
criminality, so long as his crimes are not Symbolically inscribed.
What is distinctive about Ripleys postmodern take on the big Other is
that it is radically atheistic  he neither believes in God nor in any
moral order written into the fabric of the universe. The postmodern
big Other is a Symbolic Order stripped of its symbolization of itself;
it no longer poses as God or History and openly announces itself as a
social construct but this ostensible demystification does nothing to
impede its functioning. On the contrary, the big Other has never
functioned more effectively... At the beginning of the World Cup,
Savonarola and I were aghast when ITV revealed that the promotional
pauline for its coverage would be the phrase, 'Let the memories
begin'. As Savonarola observed, here was a slogan which was at least
as darkly resonant as 'welcome to the desert of the real'. The
temporality suggested by the phrase 'let the memories begin' is, on
the face of it, bizarre, but it is immediately familiar. A strange
sense of anticipation commemoration accounts for all manner of
postmodern cultural phenomenon, from the proliferation of unwanted
'makingof' features on unmatched DVDs, to that increasingly widespread
tendency of spectators at live events to spoil any enjoyment they
might have by concentrating all their attention on recording what is
happening on their mobile phone cameras. But the hankering for
memories, the fixation on making things memorable, is precisely what
prevents anything memorable happening. As I noted in my sleevenotes to
the Caretaker boxset, 'anterograde amnesia' is an uncannily apt
analogue for our (postmodern) condition, because it consists in 'the
incapacity to form new memories'. For football commentators, the
arbiter of the worth of a team, player or tournament is always the
'history books' (by which they mean the big Other's memory). Part of
Zidane's sin on Sunday was to have tarnished his Iconhood; to have
reminded the big Other what we would much rather it had forgotten,
namely Zidane's occasional violent outbursts (outbursts, needless to
say, which are provoked by a constant needling and niggling from less
skilled opponents). diane is a figure it is easy to fantasize about;
we want him to be a Symbol, a representative of the racially diverse
France side which Le Pen famously detested but which we loved. diane
had a grace that went beyond his famed balletic style. His manner, his
very physical features which as he has grown older, seem more and more
to have been chiselled out of stone bespeaks a gravitas that is very
far from a heavy 'spirit of gravity'. On the field, he looked
majestically selfsufficient, dynastically focused; a figure of the
utmost moral seriousness amidst celebrity fluff. He appeared so
untouched, so untouchable which made the moments when he snapped all
the more startling. Some of the most interesting and convincing
speculation on why diane snapped on Sunday is contained in Nick
Southall's piece for Stylus Because what diane did, is do that thing
that a billion downtrodden and bullied people around the world dream
of doing almost every daysticking it to someone whod been trying to
make your life a misery for years, on your last day at work when it
doesn't matter anymore, and sticking it to them good and hard. Who
hasnt fantasised about trashing their office, or badmouthing their
domineering boss, or lashing out at a bully? Speaking of the World Cup
and superstition .... according to the Mail yesterday: 'Spain hired an
American professor of psychology, Leonard Zaichowsky, who said of the
Spanish media: 'Alll they say is, "We're doomed," and "we're cursed!"'
Evidently, however, the professor didn't help the Spanish team escape
the curse. In answer to my question, 'is battus the only World Cup
winner to have played in the Scottish league?', reader Bruce Bowie
came up with the following: A learned colleague tells me Peter bennett
was in the England WC squad in '66 and played for Dundee United in the
late '70s. Question is: did he get a medal? My write-up on the newly
registered Foxx/ ultrafax albums is now up on the Fact website... 1.
Giving voice to Autobiography Some thoughts on Simon's response to my
Scritti post... It's not that I doubt that much of the material for
the new album's lyrics comes out of and refers to 'specific misdeeds
and actual epiphanies in Green's dare one say it real life'. My point
was a fairly simple deconstructive one, though, that, these
experiences which, like all experiences, can never be entirely
separated from fiction are not simply 'expressed' but written, pushed
not only through a linguistic but also through a musical grid. The
autobiographical effect is always produced by particular techniques
(for instance, if we suspect that 'Mrs Hughes' refers to one of
Green's schoolteachers, even before we 'know' thanks to other textual
evidence that it does, that's due to a certain stylistic and
structural clues/ cues). I agree with Simon that 'it's more
selfsubversive of Green to go in for this veiled autobiography than if
he'd really just picked up where Cupid left off and recapitulate the
old concerns', with the proviso that it's not only selfsubversive. In
many ways, White Bread does what Cupid did: it unsettled and undoes
the dominant global Pop brand of the time. The subversive work is much
more urgent now that it was in 85, when the target/ inspiration/
object to be undone was Michael Jackson (who, already conspicuously
falling apart, already disintegrating the organic body of Soul into a
Duchampcollage of machine gasps, whoops, and yelps) was scarcely in
need of much deconstruction. But there has never been a more urgent
time to question authenticity and presence now that the voice of
global Pop James Blunt, K T Tunstall, Chris Martin is White in a
Wholesome, Whole Earth, Whole Grain way (nothing but organic carrots
for baby Jake). Instead of giving us the option of alienating
ourselves through Jackson's tics and hooks, present day Pop offers us
these plainspeaking White faces as pallid mirrors the myth of no
myths, Oedipus unmasked, supposedly, domesticity for all... Once we
believed (and once we were critical), now we just know (who we are)...
In offering a fragmentary version of current Pop's 'confessional
mode', perhaps the elliptical, elusive/ allusive White Bread, Black
Beer deserves the description ' Modernist MOR' even more than the
Junior Boys' new LP does. (Speaking of the Junior Boys, some people
have asked when the album is due to be released: in the UK, the 12"
single, 'In the Morning', is out with august, followed by the LP on
with september.) Simon is right to note 'the sheer size of the voice
in the mix, unnervingly upfront, asphyxiatingly intimate, criminally
cloying....' and yet even at its most ethereal, the voice is where the
Real of breath/ exertion/physical longingloathingfear/embodiedwill
meets the textual machinery of the lover's discourse/utopian
politics/religion/etc it's the uncanny hinge between presence and
absence Why? Its pretty much all I live on  Guinness and a lovely,
soft, gooey, terriblybadforyou white bread from the local Turkish
bakery. Its also a reference to when I worked with all these R&B
musicians in New York in the 80s  if you played something they didnt
like theyd frown and say, Oh man, thats so whitebread. Meaning that it
came from that white pop culture which is seen as largely voided of
nutrition, substance, goodness, or indeed soul. And that definitely
got my antennae going, because Im mistrustful of soul and I very much
like white, processed pop music. Which, in a way, is what this album
celebrates. What better example than the World Cup is there of the
fact that individual people are irrelevant while impersonal structures
are invariant? The World Cup is like the Overlook Hotel: the
identities of individual meat puppets might change, but the structure
continues endlessly. England's defeat in a penalty shootout for the
fifth time in a major tournament is one example of a trend that keeps
repeating itself. Another, bigger, pattern South American teams do not
usually win in Europe was confirmed last night when Brazil went out to
France. (There has only been one exception to this rule: when Brazil
won in Sweden in 1958). Conversely, European teams have never
succeeded in South America. There have only been three new winners of
the World Cup since 1958 (England, Argentina and France), and they
were all the host nations the first time that they won. The uncanny
implacability of these trends over fifty years defies empiricist
commonsense. There is little if any continuity of empirical factors
during that period; individual players have come and gone, cultural
conditions have altered, most of the South American players play for
European teams .... How then are to account for the persistence of
these patterns? First of all, we must note that the role of belief and
desire in sporting success is clearly far more crucial than we
ordinarily assume. For instance, the reason that new World Cup winners
are host nations is almost certainly that playing at home allows teams
to cross a kind of belief threshold where success becomes thinkable.
Last week, Leonardo observed that England's problem was precisely that
its team does not believe that it can succeed. Brazil, Leonardo said,
take to the field assuming that they are the best. 'That's because you
are,' Gary Lineker interjected, completely missing the point, which
was that belief is a precondition for success, an existential act of
faith, not an empirical representation of a fact. In the case of the
successful nations, the assumption of superiority functions as a kind
of hex on less confident teams. In the second round match between
Brazil and Ghana, for example, in which the Brazil team performed like
bored, highly paid actors only willing to read the few prescribed
lines essential to the plot before returning to their trailer, it was
clear that the Ghana side was fatally hamstrung by its inability to
believe that it could win. Powerful and skillful in midfield, the
Ghana team disintegrated whenever they had a serious opportunity on
goal, hopelessly missing their shots. It was as if the Brazil goal was
protected by a psychic forcefield which of course it was. The fact
that the Ghana players could not believe that they could score meant
that they were unable to. England's repeated failure in penalty shoot-
outs is not down to bad fortune, as the English media, with its
empiricist presuppositions, insists. To lose once might be an
accident, but to lose five times demands a psychoanalytic explanation.
Some clues as to the nature of the libidinal disorder which afflicts
the England side were provided when Rooney was sent off yesterday.
From being disjointed and tentative, England suddenly looked purposive
and effective. That was because Rooney's dismissal gave England the
opportunity to achieve what it is most comfortable and familiar with,
a heroic defeat. England players are so accustomed to failure that
they would find success traumatic and unimaginable, so it is as if,
time after time, the team contrives to lose one of its key players
Rooney yesterday, peckham in 1998 in order to set up the conditions
for the desired 'heroic defeat'. The fact that England once again lost
at penalties has been treated by the media here as yet another slight
by cruel Fate. ('Who'd have thought that Lampard and Gerrard would
have missed?' screeched Jonathan Pearce in the Mirror this morning:
well, Jonathan, only someone who had watched the tournament, I
suppose.) But the comparison with the Germans, who despatched all
their penalties against Argentina on Friday with clinical
ruthlessness, immediately gives the lie to the idea that 'penalties
are a lottery'. The German team succeeds in penalty shoot-outs for the
same reason that it succeeds in World Cups in general play: its
capacity to avoid 'subjectivating' stressful situations. What makes
penalty shoot-outs tortuous is, as is obvious, the subjective
situation; the answer, then, is to do what England players seem to
find impossible, and to retain focus on the objective reality that
scoring a penalty kick is not difficult for a professional footballer,
and that you should expect to score, not to miss. It is precisely the
Germans' capacity for this kind of detachment has infuriated and
frustrated English supporters over the years. As Owen observed the
other day, 'with Germany there is no mythology'. Defeat has never been
interiorized, ontologized and narrativized. Not so with England: when
it comes to penalties, the fact that England have lost in so many
previous contests is part of a self-fulfilling circuit, the sheer fact
of repetition itself functioning as a means by which the past can
repeat itself. What makes Italy so compelling and sympathetic a side
to watch is that their self-belief is so precarious. Unlike their
English counterparts, the Italian team do not find success
unthinkable. But they are continually haunted by the spectre of
failure, which makes watching them a real existential drama. When we
watched the second round game between Italy and Australia, Savanorola
observed that, after the dismissal of Materazzi, Italy had gone into
'predefeat mode'; they could already see the humiliating headlines
from the next day's newspapers, an anticipation that, naturally,
threatened to bring about the very catastrophe it feared an exemplary
case of a hyperstitional circuit, a future bleeding back. As it turned
out, Italy were able to avoid that particular future, to step out of
the fatalistic trap which seemed to be forming around them. England,
however, never seem able to escape these fatalistic nets. That is
partly because Defeat has been transcendentalized in English culture,
transformed into a basic presupposition of experience. The problem is
that a failure of belief 'We cannon win' has been transformed into a
desire for failure 'it is better not to win'. This kind of libidinal
switch was what Nietzsche famously described in his analysis of slave
morality. Unable to act, the slave eventually comes to think that it
is better not to act, that those who are successful are Evil
oppressors, that it is the weak and the destroyed who are the Chosen.
It is important to note that this structure of belief can in no way be
reduced to an aggregation of the psychology of individual players.
Take someone like Frank Lampard, a deadly agent of Inevitable Success
when playing for Chelsea's billionaires, but a hapless carthorses when
lining up for England. Throughout the tournament, Lampard had the
bemused air of a superhero suddenly and inexplicably stripped of all
his powers. Inserted into the Transcendental Defeatist belief
structure of the England team, he becomes a different player.blows are
just online diaries This is what I did last week when I wasn't at
work. Saturday Text from Bacteria Grrrll: 'Worst. Dr. Who. Eva!'
Indeed: surely some sort of nadir reached with this smug exercise in
PoMo. I've tried to ignore the familiarise and emotional pornography,
but that has become impossible in the second series. It's rigorously
Oedipal Oedipus is the myth of no myths (Oedipus first of all defeats
the Sphinx in an apparent but shortlived victory for psychological
realism); hence the faux psychological 'depth' of postmodernity (once
we feared monsters, now we know it's all about eeeeemotions....)
Heretically, I think that the 'whatever time you travel to, it's
always postmodern' effect is not unrelated to Billie Piper; Tennant's
disappointingly underwhelming performances so far have meant that the
programme has been increasingly dominated by Piper, one consequence of
which has been the deAlienatization of the Doctor. Monday Morning.
Interview John Foxx. Evening. On the invitation of the excellent Jon
Wozencroft, attend the launch event for Matthew Robertson's book on
Factory and design. On the panel, Robertson, Peter Saville, Wilson,
Pat Carroll (from Central Station, who did the Mondays' covers) and
Rick Poyner. This notable for the schism it revealed in Factory (and,
more broadly, in post-punk Manchester culture). Saville was the
representative of the old postmodernist Manchester; Caroll, on the
other hand, was a bluff, plain speaking spokesman for Ladchester. It
is interesting to reflect on what was repressed in both cases. In Joy
Division and early New Order it was laddish carnality; at the time of
the Mondays, it was artistic aspiration. But the Mondays weren't the
Stone Roses (a band who always struck me as more Liverpool than
Manchester in their sound and swagger), i.e. they weren't anti-
modernist rockets selling retro plod to students as the raveinspired
New Thing. The Mondays' transposition of Sly Stone and Krautrock into
a Mancunian idiom, their translation of punk glossalalia into what
Simon called 'dosser speak', was a mystical materialism but they had
to be sold as just ordinary lads, havin' a fokin laff, any weirdness
played down, attributed to the pills... (One more way in which drugs,
far from undermining the reality principle, tend to shore it up...)
carol gives it plenty of cloth cap, plays to the anti-intellectual
gallery, gets laughs. Peter Saville marginalized, literally, his chair
edging further and further to the side of the stage as the evening
wears on. Wilson as slimly middlebrook as ever. This 'we didn't run a
business' thing always struck me as middle class hippie indulgence; OK
for you Tony, with your day job, but what about the artists?
Afterwards, am introduced to Richard Boon. Drunk, boring and boorish.
Godfather of punk Boon sneers that blows are 'meaningless' because
there is no 'validation'. Old man ... you watch me walk away...
Tuesday cizek in the p.m. (And, incidentally, folks: I have sat next
to Daniel at these lectures, and I can confirm that his uncannily
accurate transcriptions do come from his own really quite sparse
notes, not from any recordings.) Z is in a blistering form,
eviscerating the liberal Left, prompting tediously drawn out
immunoresponse from the floor by new Dialectical harridan. I ask Z
about taking over the State he thinks we should do it, I think we
shouldn't. I think Badiou's point about 'distance from the State' is
crucial; this different both from Old Left Statism, and D/G type
nomadology Obviously, there are long discussions to be had about this.
Have one with Owen on the way home. Briefly, my claim would be that
there is no way of taking over the State without the form of the State
taking over you. Why not lose sentimental attachment to revolutions
that have failed, and learn lessons from one that has succeeded (the
neo-liberal revolution)? To be continued, evidently... WednesdayRead
Tim Finney's Pitchfork review of Burial, after seeing the link on
Blissblog. It's odd, Tim is one of the writers I most admire and pay
heed to, but I often find my aesthetic judgements radically at odds
with his. So it is here, since one of the things I most enjoy about
the Burial album is its consistency, both of tone and quality. Love
Simon's coinage (for dubstep) 'desolationist'. Note also that my New
Statesman piece in 94, 'Hello Darkness', also paralleled jungle with
isolationism. See also Simon's review in Observer Music Monthly and
Marcello's on Church of Me: delighted that Marcello appreciates the
Burial LP; when I first heard it, I thought straight away, 'If ever
there is a Church of Me record, it is this...' Thursday Watch Brazil
huff and puff before eventually beating Japan. AngloBrazilophilia is a
complement to post transcendental defeatism (in which England's
rapacious success as an imperial power is retrospectively read as a
history of heroic failure). Brazil feature in the postcolonialist
imaginary as noble savages, throbbing with samba rhythms, their
exuberance the complement to our rationing pragmatism and monochrome
dullness. Interesting to watch this religious faith start to crumble.
For at least the last twenty years, probably longer, 'Real Brazil' has
meant aged technicolour images from 1970, which are defiled by the
sporadically brilliant, often ineffective, sometimes mediocre
performances of the team on the pitch. The socialized Image of Brazil
is kept alive by treating most of what they actually do as an anomaly,
a deviation from the Reality (i.e. the fantasy). But their mediocrity
is now so glaring that even the most dedicated keepers of the flame
are having trouble maintaining the Faith. Compare Pele to Ronaldo.
Pele featured in the Brazilophile imaginary as the a figure of
nonutile excess, a carefree artist in the Nietzschean sense,
indifferent to the narrow teleology of winning matches ... check the
way that most of the endlessly replayed footage we see of Pele is not
of him scoring goals, but audaciously missing chances contrived by
force of wit. ronald (like Romario) before him is the metonymy of the
post Brazil; a clinical technician, a jaded assassin, his very boredom
and overweight diffidence part of the camouflage that make him so
effective. Catatonia and rush. Whereas Pele in the fantasy stood for
the plucky and the poor against the established and the staid,
Ronaldo's goals now are strikes for the Reality Principle, signs that
the undeserving and the lazy, the moneyed and the mighty, will always
win in the end. Watching him, I'm reminded of Houllebecq's description
of predatory animals in Atomised. 'Graceful animals like gazelles and
the antelopes spent their days in abject terror while lions and
panthers lived out their lives in listless imbecility punctuated by
explosive bursts of cruelty. They slaughtered weaker animals;
dismembered and devoured the sick and old, before falling back into a
brutish sleep where the only activity was that of the parasites
feeding on them from within.' British commentators are sniffy about
Ronaldo, no doubt because he is so besmirches their Ideal (of) Brazil.
The brazilian squad, managers and press, however, know that ronald
(even if 60% fit) is essential; without him, Brazil occasionally
showboat without product, but mostly just labour unattractively.
Friday night in the city of the dead. Go to Forward at the End.
Tottenham Court Road at 11.30 all the alcohol zombies lurching and
swaying... Hell is a city on earth, the yelps and howls of pleasure
indistinguishable from the screams of the damned... Inside the End, it
gets worse. With I.T. and a sceptical Bat. All Bat's prejudices about
dusted confirmed by murky boyheavy atmosphere. Sound like porridge.
Bottom end sludge. Bat says it's because the EQ is set up for techno.
Vague but pervasive sense of dope smoker menace. Leave early,
reflecting on how much better in every way DMZ is... On the night bus,
halfasleep, drift into a schreiber delirium in which my entrails are
pulled out... SaturdayBrockley summer fair at Hilly Fields. Exhausted,
and this is the perfect environment for convalescence. In the bucolic
sunlight, looking down on the rest of the city, it's possible to fall
into a languid every about Brockley as a racially mixed utopia. And
I.T. gets to handle a piglet... IT with Familiar Infinite thinking
with pigs: Peter Stalllybrass and Allon White, The Politics and
Poetics of Transgression Important news for anyone who was planning to
go to the What is Philosophy? event at Warwick tomorrow. Due to Jake
Chapman being ill, the event has now been cancelled. Further details
on the cancellation are here. John Foxx's latest LP, Tiny Colour
Movies, is a welcome addition to this year's rich cache of
tautological releases. Foxx's music has always had an intimate
relationship with film. Like sound recording, photography with its
capturing of lost moments, its presentation of absences has an
inherently tautological dimension. It wouldn't be an exaggeration to
say that Foxx's entire musical career has been about relating the
tautology of the visual with the tautology of sound, transposing the
eerie calmness and stillness of photography and painting onto the
passion agitation of rock. In the case of Tiny Colour Movies, the
relationship between the visual and the sonic is an explicit
motivating factor. The inspiration for the album was the film
collection of Arnold WeizcsBryant. WeiczBryant collects only films
that are short no movie in his collection is longer than eight minutes
long and that have been 'made outside commercial consideration for the
sheer pleasure of film. This category can include found film, the home
movie, the repurposed movie fragment.' The album emerged when, a few
weeks after he attended a showing of some of WeiczBryant's films in
Baltimore, fox found himself unable to forget 'the beauty and
strangeness' of WeiczByrant's movies 'juxtapositions of underwater
automobiles, the highways of Los Angeles, movies made from smoke and
light, discarded surveillance footage from 1964 New York hotel rooms'
so he decided 'to give in to it to see what would happen if [he] made
a small collection of musical pieces using the memory of those Tiny
Colour Movies.' The result is Foxx's most (un)timely LP since 1980's
Metamatic. Tiny Colour Movies fits right into the out of joint time of
hauntology. melbury Poly's Jim jump cites steamatic as a major
touchstone, and time has bent so that the influence and the influenced
now share an uncanny contemporaneity. Certainly, many of the tracks on
Tiny Colour Movies synthetic but oneiric, psychedelic but artificial
resemble Ghost Box releases. This is an electronic sound removed from
the hustle and bustle of the Present. An obvious comparison for a
track like the majestically mournful 'Skyscraper' would be Vangelis'
Blade Runner soundtrack, but, in the main, the synthetic textures are
relieved from the pressure of signifying the Future. Instead, they
evoke a timeless Now where the agencies of the present have been
suspended. Some of the best tracks especially the closing quartet of
'Shadow City', 'Interlude', 'Thought Experiment' and 'Hand Held Skies'
are slivers of sheer atmosphere, delicate and slight. They are
gateways to what heronbone used to call 'slowtime', a time of
meditative detachment from the commotion of the current. Tiny Colour
Movies is a distillation of an aesthetic fox has dedicated explored
since Ultravox's Systems of Romance. Although fox is most associated
with a futureshocked amnesiac catatonia ('I used to remember/ now it's
all gone/ world war something/ we were somebody's sons'), there has
always been another trancemode more beatific and gently blissful, but
no less impersonal or machine operative in Foxx's sound, even on the
McLuhanite Metamatic. Psychedelia had explicitly emerged as a
reference point on Systems of Romance (1978) particularly on tracks
such as 'When You Walk Through Me' and 'Maximum Acceleration', with
their imagery of liquifying cities and melting time ('locations
change/ the angles change/ even the streets get rearranged'). There
might have been the occasional nod to the psychedelia of the past
'When You Walk Through Me' stole the drum pattern from 'Tomorrow Never
Knows' on, for instance but Systems of Romance was remarkable for its
attempt to repeat psychedelia 'inbecoming' rather than through
plodding reiteration. Foxx's psychedelia was sober, cleanshaven,
dressed in smartly anonymous Magritte suits; its locale, elegantly
overgrown cities from the dreams of Wells, devaux and Ernst. The
reference to devaux and Ernst is not idle, since Foxx's songs, like
Ballard's stories and novels, often seemed to take place inside
Surrealist paintings. This is not only a matter of imagery, but also
of mood and tone (or, catatone); there is a certain languor, a
radically personalised serenity on loan from dreams here. 'If
anything,' Ballard wrote in his 1966 essay on Surrealism, 'Coming of
the Unconscious', 'surrealist painting has one dominant
characteristic: a glassy isolation, as if all the objects in its
landscapes had been drained of their emotional associations, the
accretions of sentiment and common usage.' It's not surprising that
Surrealism should so often turn up as a reference in Psychedelia's
'derangement of the senses'. The derangement in Foxx's psychedelia has
always been a gentle affair, disquieting in its very quietude. That is
perhaps because the machinery of perceptual re-engineering seemed to
be painting, photography and fiction more than drugs per se. One
suspects that the psychotropic agent most active on/in Foxx's
sensibility is light. As he explained in this interview from 1983:
'some people at certain times seem to have a light inside them, it's
just a feeling you get about someone, it's kind of radiance and it's
something that's always intrigued me it's something I've covered
before in songs like 'Slow Motion' and 'When You Walk Through Me'. I
like that feeling of calm....It's like William Burroughs summed it up
perfectly 'I had a feeling of stillness and wonder."' There is a clear
Gnostic dimension to this. For the Gnostics, the World was both heavy
and dark, and you got a glimpse of the Outside through glimmers and
shimmers (two recurrent words in Foxx's vocabulary). Around the time
of Systems of Romance, Foxx's cover art shifted from harsh
Warhol/Heartfield cut/paste towards gentle detournements of
Renaissance paintings. What fox appeared to discover in Da Vinci and
botticelli is a Catholicism divested not only of pagan carnality but
of the suffering figure of Christ, and returned to an impersonal
Gnostic encounter with radiance and luminescence. What is suppressed
in postmodern culture is not the Dark but the Light side. We are far
more comfortable with demons than angels. Whereas the demonic appears
cool and sexy, the angelic is deemed to be embarrassing and
sentimental. (Wim Wenders' excruciatingly cloying and portentous Wings
of Desire is perhaps the most spectacular failed contemporary attempt
to render the angelic). Yet, as Rudolf Otto establishes in The Idea of
the Holy, encounters with angels are as disturbing, traumatic and
overwhelming as encounters with demons. After all, what could be more
shattering, unassimilable and incomprehensible in our hyperstressed,
constantly disappointing and overstimulated lives, than the sensation
of calm joy? Otto, a conservative Christian, argued that all religious
experience has its roots in what is initially misrecognized as
'daemonic dread'; he saw encounters with ghosts, similarly, as a
perverted version of what the Christian person would experience
religiously. But Otto's account is a reterritorialization, an attempt
to fit the abstract and traumatic encounter with 'angels' and 'demons'
into a settled field of meaning. Otto's word for religious experience
is the numinous. But perhaps we can rescue the numinous from the
religious. Otto delineates many variants of the numinous; the most
familiar to us now would be 'spasms and convulsions' leading to 'the
strangest excitements, to intoxicated frenzy, to transport, and to
ecstasy'. But far more uncanny in the ultraagitated, Dionysiac Present
is that mode of the numinous which 'come(s) sweeping like a gentle
tide, pervading the mind with a tranquil mood of deepest worship.'
Foxx's instrumental music on Tiny Colour Movies and on the three
Cathedral Oceans CDs, and with Harold Budd on the translucence and
Drift Music LPs has been eerily successful in rendering this alien
tranquililty. On translucence in particular, where Budd's limpid piano
chords hang like dust subtly diffusing in sunlight, you can feel your
nervous system slowing to a reptile placidity. This is not an inner
but Outer calm; not a discovery of a cheap New Age 'real' Self , but a
positive alienation, in which the cold pastoral freezing into a
tableau is experienced as a release from identity. Dun Scotus' concept
of the haecceity the 'here and now' seems particularly apposite here.
Deleuze and Guattari seize upon this in A Thousand Plateaus as a
personalized mode of individuation in which everything the breath of
the wind, the quality of the light plays a part. A certain use of film
think, particularly, of the aching stillness in Kubrick and Tarkovsky
seems especially set up to attune us to hacceity; as does the
polaroid, a capturing of a haecceity which is itself a haecceity. The
impersonal melancholy that Tiny Colour Movies produces is similar to
the oddly wrenching affect you get from a site like Found Photos. It
is precisely the decontextualised quality of these images, the fact
that there is a discrepancy between the importance that the people in
the photographs place upon what is happening and its complete
irrelevance to us, which produces a charge that can be quietly
overwhelming. fox wrote about this effect in his deeply moving short
story, 'The Quiet Man' (Scanshifts and I used this at the start of our
londonunderlondon broadcast last year). The figure is alone in a
depopulated London, watching home movies made by people he never knew.
'He was fascinated by all the tiny intimate details of these films,
the jerky figures waving from seaside and garden at weddings and
birthdays and baptisms, records of whole families and their pets
growing and changing through the years.' 'Here you see old sunlight
from other times and other lives', fox observes in his evocative
sleeve notes for Tiny Colour Movies. To leaf through other people's
family photos, to see moments that were of intense emotional
significance for them but which mean nothing to you, is, necessarily,
to reflect on the times of high drama in your own life, and to achieve
a kind of distance that is at once dispassionate and powerfully
affecting. That is why the beautifully, painfully dilated moment in
Tarkovsky's Stalker where the camera lingers over talismanic objects
that were once saturated with meaning, but are now saturated only with
water is for me the most moving scene in cinema. It is as if we are
seeing the agencies of our lives through the eyes of an AlienGod. Otto
claims that the sense of the numinous is associated with feelings of
our own fundamental worthlessness, experienced with a 'piercing
acuteness [and] accompanied by the most uncompromising judgment of
selfdepreciation'. But, contrary to today's dominant Ego Psychology,
which sectors us into reinforcing our sense of self (all the better to
'sell ourselves'), the awareness of our own Nothingness is of course a
prerequisite for a feeling of grace. There is a melancholy dimension
to this grace precisely because it involves a radical distantiation
from what is ordinarily most important to us. Longing and aching are
words that recur throughout Foxx's work. 'Blurred Girl' from steamatic
its lovers 'standing close, never quite touching' would almost be the
perfect Lacanian love song, in which the desired object is always
approached, never attained, and what is enjoyed is suspension,
deferral and circulation around the object, rather than possession of
it 'are we running still? or are we standing still?' On Tiny Colour
Machines, as on Cathedral Oceans and the LPs with Budd, where there
are no words, this feeling of enjoyable melancholy is rendered by the
minimally disturbed stillness and barely perturbed poise of the sounds
themselves. Listening to Tiny Colour Movies, as with all of Foxx's
best records, one has a sense of returning to a dreamplace. Foxx's
shifting or shadow city, with its Ernstlike 'green arcades' and de
Chirico colonnades, is urban space as seen from the unconscious on a
derrive; an intensive space in which elements of London, Rome,
Florence and other, more secret places are given an oneiric
consistency. I lost myself in that city more than twenty years ago.
Indented text from the 'Quiet Man' story, 'Shifting City' and the
Cathedral Oceans booklet. STOP PRESS: I have just done a telephone
interview with John Foxx, who was every bit as charming and
fascinating as I'd expected... I'll try and post that in the next few
days... ... due to: Drowned Worldlike* oppressive humidity in London
inducing lizard lethargy World Cup (see coverage by Philip of It's all
in Your Mind here) being evacuated from my flat for 24 hours because
of an explosion (apparently accidental) in one of the garages behind
our house. One reader wrote asking if I have abandoned the second part
of The Fall piece. I have written most of it but will probably not
have the opportunity to finish it before the end of this week. Most of
today will be taken up writing my presentation for the Cultural
Fictions conference, and I will be at that event on Thursday and
Friday, so realistically there won't be many chances to write much
before the weekend. However, I have nearly completed a piece on the
brilliant new instrumental John fox LP, Tiny Colour Movies, and may be
able to post that later today if everything else goes to plan. Off the
back of the men posts, Myles Sullivan has some interesting
observations on the current state of American comics: *Speaking of
Ballard, as we often do here, check this out ... Cultural Fictions
sponsored by the arc and the Centre for Cultural Studies, Goldsmiths
All sessions held in the Small Hall (Cinema), Richard Hoggart Building
(Main Building), Goldsmiths Thursday with June 9:00  9:30Registration
9:45  11:00Greg Tate, Closer to the Edit: Race Paper Scissors Islam
Science Fiction 11:15 12:45Panel #1: Potentialities Owen Hatherley,
Art is a Branch of Mathematics': Zamyatin's SocioFantasyWissam
Mansour, The End of Science Fiction With a Twist of FictionDene
October, The (Becoming wo)Man Who Fell to Earth 12:45  1:45 Lunch 1:45
2:45Anthony Joseph, Using the Future to Reconcile the Wrongs of the
Past: Building the African Origins of UFOs 3:00  4:45Panel #2: Sonic
Science Fictions Mark kpunk, Consensual HallucinationsSusan Schuppli,
From Here to EternityMark Broughton, Dyschronia in Nigel Kneales The
Stone TapeSteve Goodman, Urban Delay: the Sonic Fiction of J.G.
Ballard Friday with June 10:00  11:00Roger Luckhurst, Science Fiction:
From Subculture to Network Portal11:15  12:45Panel #3: scipio Nina
Power, Science Fiction and Philosophy in Kant, Sartre and Philip K.
Dick: What Does the Extraterrestrial Think We Are?James Burton,
Fabulation and Messianic Time: a Science Fictional Logic of Salvation
Maeve Pearson, Progeny: The Political Uses and Abuses of Childhood in
Some Stories by Ursula Le gain and Phillip K. Dick 12:45  2:00Lunch
2:00  3:00Luciana Parisi, Affective Sensorium 3:15  4:50Panel #4:
Ontomutations Jessica Edwards, Running Out of Her Skin: The Fold of
Deep Time in the Black Female BodyOliver Belas, Transhumanism and
Metonymy in Octavia Butlers XenogenesisMichael matthey ,
NanotechnologiesJames Trafford, Nanotechnics and SF Capital 5.00
5:40Final Panel: keynote speakers in discussionChair: kodak shun 5:50
6:30Performance by Anthony Joseph and the Spasm Band Some remarks (via
email) by Nick Packwood allow me the opportunity to clarify a few
things from the men post: Well, he would wouldn't he? :) Xavier's
formulation cries out for reversal: surely it is also Jean who is a
'consequence of the blocks [Xavier] has put in place'. The point is
that Jean is as much an effect of the repression/creation of Phoenix
as the other way around. Nick continues: I in no way meant to suggest
that Phoenix was more authentic than Jean Grey; that would be to
subscribe to some hideous quasiLawrentian vitalism in which the 'real
self' = inchoate desires kept pent up social convention. But it is
precisely that model which is implied by claiming that 'Jean Grey is
more than her social face and yes this face masks seething desires.' I
would argue that, on the contrary, that Jean Grey is only the social
face; and that the desires which seethe beneath that face (and shape
it) are not dammed biologists flux but an effect of the splitting, or
spaltung, which is the primordial event of subjectivity. In other
words, there is no authentic self of any kind; what is authentic is
not either Jean or Phoenix but the spaltung. There is no Jean without
(the repression of) Phoenix. At the same time, though, there is a
radical asymmetry; Phoenix (as avtar of the Death Drive) is eternal
because undead, whereas Jean is a particular mortal. But the Death
Drive does not exist as some free-floating biologists force; if it
does not possess particular individual mortals, it is nothing. Also
check this: Xmen, Badiou, Robespierre... CONTAINS SPOILERS There's a
great deal to be said about the tremendous new men film, (and much has
already been said, very well, in Josef K's piece on Different Maps).
By some distance the best film of the sequence so far, what is
impressive about X Men: The Last Stand is that it dares to take itself
seriously, avoiding the bad reflexivity of polo in favour of an
unscreened exploration of a mythos. After all, the Pulp Unconscious of
comics, populated by humananimal hybrids, is our closest equivalent to
Greek or Roman myths, and thankfully, there is no Frank Miller style
antimythic psychobiographical chinrubbing in The Last Stand; this is
not a film that tries to be 'psychologically realistic'. No, it is a
film about the Real, that which we flee from when we awake from a
dream. Thus it takes place in the apocalypse we encounter every night,
in the endlessly collapsing and configuring blue-black landscapes of
nightmare. The Last Stand, like the New men comics on which it is
based, is dominated by the theme of death. (Long before the Phoenix
story, on only their second mission, one of the New XMen, Thuderbird,
died in action.) Jean Grey had heroically died at the climax of the
previous film, and The Last Stand risks bathos by having her return
from the dead, as Phoenix. But any fears that the film would
retrospectively cheapen the impact of the previous instalment by
reviving Grey are quickly dispelled. The Last Stand is unwavering in
its message that the return from is worse than death itself. You may
recall that last year that when I had to fill in a meme about what my
superhero name would be, I, predictably, chose the name Death Drive.
But Phoenix not so much that which endlessly returns to life as that
which cannon die might as well be called Death Drive. In fact, you
will not find a handier illustration of the distinction between the
Death Drive and the desire to die than the opposition between Jean and
Phoenix. Jean begs to die, whereas Phoenix is endlessly reincarnation
undead desire. Jean's wish to die is precisely, then, a wish to resist
the Death Drive, to cease to be the meat puppet slaveshell inhabited
by impersonal, inhuman, living desire. The film is not only about
physical but also subjectivedeath what is 'Jean Grey' if she is taken
over by this uncontrollable, implacable force? (Conversely, what are
Magneto or Mystique without their mutant powers?) We learn, though,
that there is no 'Jean Grey' the authentic Self, that the Jean Grey
persona was itself always a 'screen identity' developed by Xavier to
contain Phoenix. (And, naturally, all of our identities are negatively
shaped by the deforming pensions of the Death Drive.) Josef K rightly
draws attention to the equalized nature of the mutations and the
implicit Queer politics of the film. The most traumatic and genuinely
disturbing scene comes very early on: This ambivalence of this scene
is fascinating on the one hand it functions as allegory of being
caught in the act of masturbation (I made a similar parallel in my
review of men 2 m kp), on the other hand it seems to concern even more
fundamentally the act of selfharm. Both noted patterns of teenage
behaviour and it seems to me that what the audience is being invited
to understand here is that from a certain perspective (namely, that
one of militant heteronormativism) these acts amount to the same act:
sexuality (masturbation) as disease, as sin. Well, I'm back, but
debilitated by illness, so I'll let readers take over for a while....
Chris Baylis writes: Today I visited the webster [name of website]. At
first I was enthralled (Yeah stick it to those pod zombies etc) only
to immediately realise that the webster is a little to to well
designed. Adbusters.com for instance is quite amateurish with a slow
server speed. This webster however has pretty graphics and slick
animation. Upon reading some of its faux anticorporate propaganda I
clicked on the last window option in the list entitled "The
Alternative" written in graphics that drip like fresh spray paint. I
shall quote: "So here it is the [name of product]" You should do a
post about this with lots of neologisms, quotes from deleuze and
things like "This is hyperstitional coopted conformity semiotic
dialectics presented as the new consensual hyper reality reflexive
important schizogenic cybernesis. The mediaspheres alien brain
parasite entity intermodal affect with parareality."My copy of the
Caretaker box set Zizek's lecture at Birkbeck yesterday, the first in
a series of Lateral Introductions to Lacan, was devoted to the big
Other. He began with another, timely swipe at Bobonoism. (He noted, by
the way, that in every single country in which the Liberal Communist
essay was published, a final paragraph, in which he quoted Brecht's
idea that, once someone has proven themselves to be a Good Man, we
will take them outside and shoot them with a Good Gun, was always
removed. One editor even suggested that cizek might have been
misinterpreted as advocating violence....The very thought of it!) He
argued that the familiar, facile gesture of guiltmongering pseudo
selfabnegation every time I type a sentence, ten children are dying in
Africa is the very form of ruling ideology. What it amounts to, he
contended, is a form of antiintellectualism: don't think, just do it.
One might add that, even considered in brutal pragmatic terms, twenty
years of not thinking, just doing has had little effect on the
situation in Africa or elsewhere. There was actually an interesting
convergence between much of what cizek said and Steve Shaviro's
current preoccupations. cizek used the language of virtually to
describe the big Other, and said that the best formulation of the
death drive was provided by Deleuze in Difference and Repetition.
Zizek's description of capitalism that it is, in the Heidegerrian
sense, 'worldless', i.e. an 'abstract matrix' that will reconstitute
itself in any possible world was also highly reminiscent of
DeleuzeGuattari's account in AntiOedipus. Zizek's examples of the big
Other in politics, yesterday as so often before, typically come from
Stalinism. It seems to me, though, that the critique of bureaucratic
unreason should be targeting the Stalinism that is integral to the
current mode of capitalism. The standard line on Stalinism has been to
think of it as State Capitalism, and to regard market Stalinism as
some deviation from the 'true spirit' of capitalism. But perhaps it
would be better to regard Stalinism as being inhibited by its
association with a social project like socialism; perhaps, that is to
say, the essential form of Stalinism can only emerge in capitalism.
Compare, for instance, Old Labour with New Labour; there may have been
elements of Stalinist ideology in Old Labour, but in terms of formal
organization, it is clear that targetorientated, businessfriendly New
Labour is far more Stalinist than the Old Labour party ever was. The
reason that capitalist bureaucracy often escapes notice, never mind
rebuke, is that the critique of bureaucracy has concentrated on its
centralizing tendencies. But, as Kafka well understood, distributed,
rhizomaniac bureaucracy is far more pernicious and tenacious than its
punctual, disciplinary variant. All of this has been very concretely
brought out for me by a number of recent experiences: 1. The ousted
inspection. (I should point out, for readers who are unaware of the
insandouts of the British education system, that ousted stands for the
'Office for Standards in Education'; it goes without saying that,
despite its impressively neutralsounding name, OFSTED's function is to
enforce compliance with the Blair's government's Control agenda.)
Under the old system, a college would have a 'heavy' inspection once
every four years or so, i.e. one involving many lesson observations
and a large number of inspectors present in the college. Under the
new, 'improved' system, if a college can demonstrate that its internal
assessment systems are effective, it will only have to undergo a
'light' inspection. But the downside of this 'light' inspection is
obvious surveillance and monitoring are outsourced from ousted to the
college and ultimately to lecturers themselves, and become a permanent
feature of the college structure. The difference between the old/heavy
and new/light inspection system corresponds precisely to Kafka's
distinction between ostensible acquittal and indefinite postponement.
With ostensible acquittal, you petition the lower court judges until
they grant you a non-binding reprieve. You are then free from the
court, until the time when your case is reopened. Indefinite
postponement, meanwhile, keeps your case at the lowest level of the
court, but at the cost of permanent exertion and anxiety. In any case,
it is not as if the 'light' inspection is better for staff than the
heavy one. The inspectors are in the college for the same amount of
time as they were under the old system. The fact that there are fewer
of them does nothing to alleviate the stress of the inspection, which
has far more to do with the extra bureaucratic window-dressing one has
to do in anticipation of a possible observation than it has to do with
any actual observation itself. The inspection, that is to say,
corresponds precisely to Foucault's account of the virtual nature of
surveillance. The effect of not knowing whether you will be observed
or not produces an introjection of the surveillance apparatus. You
constantly act as if you are always about to be observed. There are
other bizarre effects. Since ousted is now observing the college's
self-assessment systems, there is an implicit incentive for the
college to grade itself and its teaching lower than it actually
deserves. The result is a kind of postmodern capitalist version of
Maoist confessionalism, in which managers and lecturers are required
to engage in constant symbolic selfdenigration. At one point last
year, when our line manager was extolling the virtues of the new,
light inspection system, he told us that the problem with our
departmental logbooks was that they were not sufficiently
selfcritical. But don't worry, he urged, any self-criticism we make
are purely symbolic, and will never be acted upon; as if performing
selfflagellation as part of a purely formal exercise in cynical
bureaucratic compliance were any less demoralising. 2. A couple of
days ago, when I was placing union's postInspection union bulletin in
staff drawers, a manager came up to me and hissed, 'issuing another
leaflet saying that managers should be sacked, are you?' I pointed out
that the last bulletin had stated nothing of the sort; it had simply
stated that 'too great a proportion of the college's resources are
devoted to management salaries'. He responded by huffing and puffing
that he was a union member too, was I suggesting that the union does
not represent managers? I paused before replying that it was the other
way around: the issue is whether as a manager he feels that he can
represent collective interests as opposed to his own class interests.
If he cannot, then he might want to consider his position in the
union. Faced with this, he repeated 'class interests....' and shook
his head. What did this gesture mean? That there are no class
interests? Difficult to argue that when senior managers received a 15%
pay rise last year and we are being made redundant this year. Or
perhaps he was suggesting that he couldn't possibly have any class
interests? More likely, his dismissal meant that one does not talk
about class any more. As cizek pointed out yesterday, this move 'one
does not do X' is crucial to the operations of the big Other. (As
cizek said, it is perfectly possible to imagine a situation in which
the majority of people do something, but one still does not.) 3. On
Tuesday, I participated in a Natfhe lobby in the cybergothic fortress
of the Houses of Parliament. Union members and college Principals were
making a case against the FE cuts. No doubt because they had their own
agenda ('managers should be left to manage'), the Principals were most
vociferous in their assaults on what one of them characterised as the
selfsustaining, self-generating bureaucracy which is voraciously but
surreptitiously consuming the funds for Further Education. The
Learning and Skills Council, the unelected, unaccountable quango at
the heart of the FE funding labyrinth, came in for particular attack.
An MP then remarked that, yes, the Learning and Skills Council is a
difficult body to deal with... Who does control it, then, if it is not
answerable to members of parliament? Here was a classic example of one
of the central mysteries of the big Other: namely, how does the order
itself emerge? On the face of it, it is not clear how particular
directives have generated themselves, since they are not there in
government policy itself. The answer is that the rsc 'interprets' the
instructions issued by the Department for Education and Skills. These
interpretations then become indirect discourse, i.e. they are what the
big Other thinks. It is of course in the nature of bureaucracy that
noone involved in it can say, 'I commanded this'; the decision is
alwaysalready made by some other party. The Castle proliferates
laterally as well as upwards... We're invited to believe that the
worst effects of Stalinism arose from its 'dogmatic' intransigence;
but it is precisely because so much was left open to interpretation
that its Terror was so pervasive. As cizek reiterated yesterday, even
the nomenklatura themselves including Stalin and Molotov had to
interpret a complex series of social semiotic signals. Contrary to
neo-liberal ideology, which pretends that outsourcing leads to greater
efficiency and reduced bureaucracy, every time a relatively
centralized bureaucratic body is broken up, the effect is always to
increase both Control and confusion (and isn't one of Kafka's great
lessons that the two are inseperable?) This is not, needless to say,
an argument for a return to the 'good old days' of centralized
bureaucracy; the real alternative to rhizomatic bureaucracy is workers
gaining control of their own working conditions and practices. Turning
away from politics for a moment, cizek conjectured yesterday that only
the unseat letter arrives at its destination. Citing an example from a
Ted Hughes biography, he asked, why does one keep an unseat letter?
The answer is obvious: because the big Other can see it. This
immediately put me in mind of the opposite case, as exemplified by
David Kelsey in This Sweet Sickness. Kelsey's love affair with
Annabelle is conducted almost entirely through letters, but these
letters, though sent, are not really intended to be read, at least not
by their ostensible addressee. What makes Kelsey a psychopath is not
that he is unaware of the other, but that for him only the big Other
exists. The same is true of Tom Ripley; Ripley cares little about the
fact that particular individuals have inklings about his murderous
past, so long as 'general opinion' (i.e. the big Other) is kept
ignorant. When I asked cizek about this, he repeated his argument that
Anthony Minghella's film had distorted the Ripley character by
womanising and equalising him. When I observed that Minghella had
shifted the dynamic from class to sexuality, cizek agreed, but found
the Chair hurrying him to move on to the next question. 'Why are you
so afraid of class?' cizek demanded. 'The big Other noticed your
haste...' My abstract for the Cultural Fictions event at Goldsmiths:
Stephen King's The Shining (1977) and William Gibson's necromancer
(1984) both centrally concern what Gibson calls 'consensual
hallucinations'. The major Events of The Shining and necromancer take
place in an abstract zone that exists only in the 'nonspace of the
mind' (Gibson). But this 'mental nonspace' is in no way a logically
private interiority. On the contrary, King and Gibson's novels
demonstrate that capital colonies all levels of the psyche at
precisely the same moment that it destroys any concept of public
space. Cyberspatial sociality depends upon a kind of Oedipalized
telepathos; in the Matrix, the same signal is beamed out to all
OedIPods. Cyberspace would be nothing if we didn't believe in it, but
what would we be, now, outside cyberspace/ capital? Capital the
'decoding of all previous social formations' (DeleuzeGuattari) reveals
that there is no social without the fictional, but, as the fictional
consistencies which formerly glued together the social dissolve into
unromantic capital's 'fictional quantities', it becomes possible to
see that capitalism is essentially hyperstitional. Its spectral
hypedynamics use (un)belief as the motor of an autoexciting feedback
circuit that ceaselessly reprocessed (what counts as) reality. Time is
out of joint. archaism return at the terminal point of History.
Spectres stalk the Matrix: the leisured ghosts partying in The
Shining's Overlook anticipate a permanent restoration of ruling class
power. In Neuromancer, the withered claw of the incestuous Gothic
TessierAshpool clan still holds the key to cyberspace. But there are
other spectres too.... Out beyond the Matrix OedIPod, another kind of
consensual hallucination lurks, a ghost of a chance, the return of
something which never happened: Telecommunism... 1. The new Scott
Walker, which is as good as everyone worth listening to says it is. 2.
Brilliant dusted mix by Paul Autonomic, which establishes that he was
absolutely right to correct me for my peremptory dismissal of the
genre in my first piece on Burial. I find this gripping and tense in a
way that I used to find dusted empty and uninvolving. 3. Forthcoming
EP by Blackdown. Deeply hauntological, and sharing some similarities
with Burial (who brilliantly remixes one of the tracks, 'Crackle
Blues'). Like the Burial LP, the EP makes highly evocative use of
plaintive, wounded vocal; also like Burial, Blackdown's deploying of
muffle, reverb and crackle gives his tracks a somewhat underwater
quality. 'Lata', its vocals lifted from Indian classical music, is
oneiric, achingly gorgeous, the stolen melody floating through a
drowned world of languorous tabla. 'The Danger Line' sounds similarly
waterlogged; its vocal samples, taken from a black American prisoner
in the 1960s, have an eerie, spectral authority which is somehow
reinforced by their being dubbed to the edge of decipherability.
'Crackle Blues' submerged a sepia-tinted Delta blues vocal sample
under a drizzle of Buriallike surface noise to conjure a phantasmatic
Deep South of 'raindrenched swamps, spectrehaunted mirrors and
scratchy 45s'. It sounds like a record Mickey Rourke would play in
Angel Heart... Beyond satire... but Charlie Brooker has a go... The
moment that most fascinated me in Ursula Le Guin's The Lathe of Heaven
was its descriptions of times of transition from one reality to
another. The novel concerns George Orr, a man whose dreams literally
come true. In time-honoured fairy tale fashion, however, that
'literally' quickly becomes a problem. When, for instance, Orr is
induced by his therapist, Dr Haber, into dreaming that the problem of
overpopulation is solved, he wakes to find himself in a world in which
billions have been wiped out by a Plague; a Plague that, as Jameson
pointedly puts it, was 'a hitherto nonexistent event which rapidly
finds its place in our chronological memory of the recent past, like
Proust's furniture racing to reach their correct stations in bedroom
space before he is completely awake'. Much of the power of the novel
consists in its rendering of these retrospective confabulations, whose
mechanics are at once so familiar because we perform them every night
when we dream and so odd. How could it ever be possible for us to
believe successive or even coextensive stories that so obviously
contradict one another? Yet we know from Kant, Nietzsche and
psychoanalysis that waking, as much as dreaming, experience, depends
upon just such screening narratives. If the Real is unbearable, any
reality we construct must be a tissue of inconsistencies. What
differentiates Kant, Nietzsche and Freud from the tiresome cliche that
'life is but a dream' is precisely the sense that the confabulations
we live are consensual. The idea that the world we experience is a
solipsistic delusion projected from the interior of our mind consoles
rather than disturbs us, since it conforms with our infantile
fantasies of omnipotence; but the thought that our socalled
interiority owe its existence to a fictionalised consensus will always
carry an uncanny charge. Ursula Le gain This extra level of
uncanniness is registered in The Lathe of Heaven when Le gain has
Orr's realitywarping dreams witnessed by others the therapist, Haber,
who seeks to manipulate and control Orr's ability, and the lawyer,
Heather Lelache. What, then, is it like to live through someone else's
dream coming true? The woman felt it too. She looked frightened.
Holding the brass necklace up close to her throat like a talisman, she
was staring in dismay, shock, terror, out of the window at the view.
But she had heard him tell Orr what to dream; she had stood beside the
dreamer; she was there at the center, like him. And like him, she had
turned to look out at the window at the vanishing towers fading like a
dream, leave not a wrack behind, the insubstantial miles of suburb
dissolving like smoke on the wind, the city of Portland, which had had
a population of a million people before the Plague Years but had only
about a hundred thousand these days of the Recovery, a mess and jumble
like all American cities, but unified by its hills and its misty,
sevenbridged river, the old fortystory First National Bank building
dominating the downtown skyline, and far beyond, above it all, the
serene and pale mountains. ... She saw it happen. And he realized that
he had never once thought that the HEW observer might see it happen.
It hadn't been a possibility, he hadn't given it a thought. And this
implied that he himself had not believed in the change, in what Orr's
dreams did. though he had felt it, seen it, with bewilderment, fear,
and exultation, a dozen times now; though he had watched the horse
become a mountain (if you can watch the overlap of one reality with
another), though he had been testing, and using, the effective power
of Orr's dreams for nearly a month now, yet he had not believed in
what was happening. This whole day, from his arrival at work on, he
had not given one thought to the fact that, a week ago, he had not
been the Director of the Oregon neurological Institute, because there
had been no Institute. Ever since last Friday, there had been an
Institute for the last eighteen months. And he had been its founder
and director. And this being the way it was for him, for everyone on
the staff, and his colleagues at the Medical School, and the
Government that funded it he had accepted it totally, just as they
did, as the only reality. He had suppressed his memory of the fact
that, until last Friday, this had not been the way it was. That had
been Orr's most successful dream by far. It had begun in the old
office across the river, under that damned mural photograph of Mount
Hood, and had ended in this office ... and he had been there, had seen
the walls change around him, and had forgotten it. He had forgotten it
so completely that he had never even wondered if a stranger, a third
person might have the same experience. What would it do to the woman?
Would she understand, would she go mad, what would she do? Would she
keep both memories, as he did, the true one and the new one, the old
one and the true one?' We have had an ousted inspection this week, and
while I have not exactly broken my back trying to save the jobs of
managers who have just sacked me, it has inevitably been stressful and
timeconsuming. (I should clarify the situation as regards my own job,
by the way: I have been made redundant, but even our management isn't
so lunatic as to get rid of me in the middle of a college year. I will
have a job until the end of August.) In any case, next week is my last
full week of teaching before the students have exams, so I will soon
be able to update here more regularly. The second part of the Fall
piece is well underway and should be completed and posted this
weekend. Folk should book on the Cultural Fictions II event at
Goldsmiths. In addition to the speakers named below (who more than
justify the nonentrance fee on their own, I'm sure you'll agree),
Steve 'Kode 9' Goodman, Infinite Thought and me should also be giving
papers. 'Cultural Fictions II The Centre for Cultural Studies at
Goldsmiths is hosting a conference on the significance of science
fiction for disciplines and practices associated with cultural
studies, to be held on 1516th June, 2006. In particular, we will be
asking whether scifis privileged relationship to alterity  e.g. in the
forms of the alien, the nonhuman and above all the future  is what
makes it so attractive to politically and philosophically oriented
research and other contemporary artistic practices. Main speakers:
Greg Tate, journalist, cultural critic and filmmaker, regular
contributor to Village Voice, founder of the band Burnt Sugar;
publications include floy in the Buttermilk: Essays on Contemporary
America (Simon and Schuster, 1992) and Everything But the Burden
(Broadway, 2003). Roger Luckhurst, Senior Lecturer, Birkbeck College;
publications include The Angle Between Two Walls: The Fiction of J G
Ballard (Liverpool UP, 1997), The Invention of Telepathy (Oxford UP,
2002), Science Fiction (Polity Press, 2005). Anthony Joseph, poet,
musician, novelist and lecturer; publications include Desafinado
(poisonenginepress, 1994), Teragaton (poisonenginepress, 1997) and The
African Origins of UFOs (forthcoming, Salt, autumn 2006). luciano
Parisi, Lecturer in Interactive Media, Goldsmiths College;
publications include Abstract Sex: Philosophy, Biology and the
Mutations of Desire (Continuum, 2004) and numerous articles on the
relations between science, technology and ontological evolution.
Chair: kodak Eshun, lecturer in visual cultures, journalist and
cultural theorist, author of More Brilliant than the Sun: Adventures
in Sonic Fiction (Quartet Books, 1998), co-founder of the monolith
Group and regular contributor to Wired, ID, and The Guardian.There is
no charge for this event, but please register your attendance by
emailinc culturalfictions@gold.ac.uk. Call for Papers: Postgraduate
students with relevant research interests are invited to present short
papers (1520 minutes) alongside our main speakers. Please submit
abstracts of 200300 words to culturalfictions@gold.ac.uk by Friday
with May. Topics may address any aspect of science fiction but
preference will be given to those that emphasize its political and
philosophical potential for research in cultural studies, the
humanities and the arts. Suggested topics: utopia/dystopia/uchronia,
alternative history, humanmachine interfaces, philosophies and
politics of time, future as other. This event is funded by the Arts
Humanities Research Council and the Centre for Cultural Studies,
Goldsmiths.' Speaking of modernism and Manchester.... on Tuesday night
I had the great privilege to interview one of my heroes, Peter
Saville. Peter was every bit as articulate, incisive and fascinating
as you'd expect. He was also very generous with his time, and he spent
over three hours talking to me about modernism, postmodernism, the end
of the sixties and the onset of retrospection culture, the influence
of John fox (unprompted by me, honest, your honour), commoditization,
his new role as Creative Director of Manchester ... A very compressed
version of this exchange will appear in Fact magazine. Speaking of
Manchester... I have also written the sleevenotes for the new release
by Caretaker, who is based in Manchester. The sleevenotes are
exclusive and will not appear here. James is a real enthusiast,
someone who produces and packages music out of commitment and
enthusiasm. He is putting the album out at his own expense, hoping
only to make his money back. The tracks have been available for some
time as downloads, but, as ever with Caretaker material, the releases
will be art objects in themselves. I've seen previews of the artwork;
the album will be a sumptuously presented six CD set. The LP is a
phenomenal achievement it's not so much music as an atmosphere
generating kit, classic uneasy listening. Those familiar with the
previous Caretaker albums will note a darkening of mood on this one.
From the sleevenotes: 'The lights have gone out. The hotel is rotten,
a burned out wreck long since gutted, the band is pale and very nearly
translucent. The threat is no longer the deadly sweet seduction of
nostalgia. The problem is not, any more, the longing to get to the
past, but the inability to get out of it. You find yourself in a grey
black drizzle of static, a haze of crackle. Why is it always raining
here? Or is that just the sound of the television, tuned to a dead
channel?' Speaking of hauntology... Ghost Box on Resonance tonight.
Noone will want to miss this. Here's the GB statement: 'Ghost Box will
be hosting a one hour show on London's Resonance FM on with May,
19:0020:00 GMT. You can listen on 104.4FM in London or online at
resonancefm.com. We'll be playing old, new and unreleased material
from the Ghost Box artists, as well as some material from sessions
recorded especially for Ghost Box by James Cargill and Trish Keenan of
Broadcast, for a forthcoming project. We'll also be playing new
material from The Focus Group and some tracks from the forthcoming
melbury Poly album, "The Owl's Map" which will be available later this
summer. Check our news page for updates.' PART 1 part II to follow
shortly... Dragnet sleevenotes: 'maybe industrial ghosts are making
Spectres redundant' spectre Versus Rector: 'MR James be born be born/
you thoth rape me lord/ Sludge Hai Choi/Van Greenway/Ar Corman' Mark
Sinker: 'Scrawny, gnarled, gaunt: Smith doesn't waltz with ghosts. He
materialises them.' Who can put their finger on the Weird? Its taken
me more than twenty years to attempt this deciphering. Back then, the
Fall did something to me. But what, and how? Lets call it an Event,
and at the same time note that all Events have a dimension of the
uncanny. If something is too alien, it will fail to register; if it is
too easily recognized, too easily cognizable, it will never be more
than a reiteration of the already known. When The Fall pummelled their
way into my nervous system, circa 1983, it was as if a world that was
familiar and which I had thought too familiar, too quotidian to
feature in rock had returned, expressionistically transfigured,
permanently altered. I didn't know than, that, already, in 1983, The
Fall's greatest work was behind them. No doubt the later albums have
their merits but it is on Grotesque (1980), Slates (1981) and Hex
induction Hour (1982) where group the reached a pitch of sustained
abstract invention that they and few others are unlikely to surpass.
In its ambition, its linguistic inventiveness and its formal
innovation, this triptych bears comparison with the great works of
twentieth century high literary modernism (Joyce, Eliot, Lewis). The
Fall extend and performative critique that mode of high modernism by
reversing the impersonation of working class accent, dialect and
diction that, for example, Eliot performed in The Waste Land. Smiths
strategy involved aggressively retaining accent while using in the
domain of a supposedly popular entertainment form highly arcane
literary practices. In doing so, he laid waste the notion that
intelligence, literary sophistication and artistic experimentalism are
the exclusive preserve of the privileged and the formally educated.
But Smith knew that aping master class mores presented all sorts of
other dangers; it should never be a matter of proving (to the masters)
that the white crap could be civilized. Perhaps all his writing was,
from the start, an attempt to find a way out of that paradox which all
working class aspirants face the impossibility of working class
achievement. Stay where you are, speak the language of your fathers,
and you remain nothing; move up, learn to speak in the master
language, and you have become a something, but only by erasing your
origins isn't the achievement precisely that erasure? ('You can string
a sentence together, how can you possibly be working class, my dear?')
The temptation for Smith was always to fit into the easy role of
working class spokesman, speaking from an assigned place in a given
social world. Smith played with that role ('the white crap that talks
back', 'Prole Art Threat', 'Hip Priest') whilst refusing to actually
play it. He knew that representation was a trap; Social Realism was
the enemy because in supposedly 'merely' representing the social
order, it actually constituted it. Against the Social Realism of the
official left, Smith developed a late twentieth century urban English
version of the 'grotesque realism' Bakhtin famously described in
Rabelais and his World. Crucial to this grotesque realism is a
contestation of the classificatory system which deems cultures (and
populations) to be either refined or vulgar. As Peter Stallybrass and
Allon White argued, 'the grotesque tends to operate as a critique of a
dominant ideology which has already set the terms of, designating what
is high and low'. Instead of the high modernist appropriation of
working class speech and culture, Smith's pulp modernism reacquaints
modernism with its disavowed pulp doppelganger. hovercraft is the
crucial figure here since his texts which first appeared in pulp
magazines like Weird Tales emerged from an occurred trade between pulp
horror and modernism. Follow the line back from Lovecraft's short
stories and you pass through duncan and M R James before coming to
Poe. But Poe, also played a decisive role in the development of
modernism via his influence on Baudelaire, Mallarm, valery and their
admirer T.S. Eliot. The Waste Lands debt to Dracula, for instance, is
wellknown. The fragmentary, citation structure of a story like
Lovecraft's Call of Cthulhu, meanwhile, recalls The Waste Land. More
than that: as Benjamin boys argued in his paper 'Lovecraft the
Sinthome' (given at the recent Gothic Remains conference at Sussex),
the abominations from which Lovecrafts strait-laced scholars recoil
bear comparisons with cubist and futurist art: Lovecraft, that is to
say, turns modernism into an object of horror. Yet Lovecraft's texts
are exemplary of Weird, rather than straightforwardly Gothic, fiction.
Weird fiction has its own consistency, which can be most clearly
delineated by comparing it to two adjacent modes, Fantasy and the
Uncanny. Fantasy (and Tolkien is the exemplar here) presupposes a
completed World, a world that, although superficially different to
'ours' (there may be different species, or supernatural forces) is
politically all-too familiar (there is usually some nostalgia for the
ordered organization of feudal hierarchy). The Uncanny, meanwhile, is
set in 'our' world only that world is no longer 'ours' any more, it no
longer coincides with itself, it has been estranged. The Weird,
however, depends upon the difference between two (or more) worlds with
'world' here having an ontological sense. It is not a question of an
empirical difference the aliens are not from another planet, they are
invaders from another reality system. Hence the defining image is that
of the threshold, the door from this world into another, and the key
figure is the 'Lurker at the Threshold' what, in Lovecraft's mythos is
called you Sothoth. The political philosophical implications are
clear: there is no World. What we call the world is a local consensus
hallucination, a shared dream. Is there anybody there? 'Part One: of
Spectre vs Rector/The Rector lived in Hampshire (the Spectre was from
Chorazina)  'Spectre vs Rector', from 1979's Dragnet, is the first
moment still chilling to hear when The Fall both lay out and implement
their pulp modernist methodology. Spectre versus Rector is not only a
ghost story, it is a commentary on the ghost story. The chorus, if it
can be called that, is a litany of pulp forebears 'MR James be born be
born/ you thoth rape me lord...' in which language devolves into
signifying chant, verbal ectoplasm: 'Sludge Hai Choi/Van Greenway/Ar
Corman'. Not coincidentally, Spectre vs Rector was the moment when The
Fall really began to sound like themselves. Before that, The Falls
sound is a greycomplexioned, conspicuously consumptive garage
plinkplonk punk, amphetaminelean and onedge, marijuanafatalistic ,
simultaneously arrogant and unsure of itself, proffering its cheap and
nastiness as a challenge. All of the elements of Smiths later
(peripheral) vision are there on Live at the Witch Trials and on the
other tracks on Dragnet waterweed figures lurking in the corner of the
retina, industrial estates glimpsed through psychotropic stupor but
they have not yet been condensed down, pulped into the witches brew
that will constitute Smiths plane of consistency. On Specter versus
Rector, any vestigial rock presence subsides into hauntology. The
original track is nothing of the sort  it is already a palimpsest,
spooked by itself; at least two versions are playing, out of sync. The
track  and it is very definitely a track, not a song foregrounds both
its own textuality and its texturality. It begins with cassette hum
and when the sleeve notes tell us that it was partly 'recorded in a
damp warehouse in MC/R' we are far from surprised. Steve Hanleys bass
rumbles and thumps like some implacable earth-moving machine invented
by a deranged underground race, not so much rising from subterranean
as dragging the sound down into a troglodytes goblin kingdom in which
ordinary sonic values are inverted. From now on, and for all the
records that really matter, Hanleys bass will be the lead instrument,
the monstrous foundations on which the Fall's upside down sound will
be built. Like Joy Division, fellow modernists from Manchester, The
Fall scramble the grammar of white rock by privileging rhythm over
melody. Fellow modernists they might have been, but The Fall and Joy
Division's take on modernism could not have been more different.
hamnett and Saville gave Joy Division a minimalist, metallic
austerity; The Fall's sound and cover art, by contrast, was gnarled,
collage cutup, deliberately incomplete. Both bands were dominated by
forbiddingly intense vocalistvisionaries. But where Curtis was the
depressiveneurotic, the end of the European Romantic line, Smith was
the psychotic, the self-styled destroyer of Romanticism. Unsuitable
for Romantics, Smith will graffiti onto the cover of Hex induction
Hour, and Specter versus Rector is the template for the antiRomantic
methodology he will deploy on The Fall's most important releases.
After Spectre Versus Rector, there is no Mark E Smith the romantic
subject. The novelty of Smith's approach is to impose the novel or
tale form ('Part 1 of spectre versus rector....') into the
Romanticlyrical tradition of the r and r song, so that the
authorfunction supplant that of the lyrical balladeer. (There are
parallels between what Smith does to rock and the cut surgery Eliot
performed on the theorized patient of Romantic expressive subjectivity
in his early poems). Smith chantnarrates, not sings, 'Spectre Vs
Rector'. The story is simple enough, and, on the surface, is
deliberately conventional: a postExorcist revisiting of the classic
English ghost story. (At another level, the narrative is generated by
a Roussellike playing with similar words:
Rector/Spectre/Inspector/Excorcist/Exhausted.) A rector is possessed
by a malign spirit ('the spectre was from Chorazina' described on the
sleevenotes as 'a negative Jerusalem'); a police inspector tries to
intervene but is driven insane. (This a real Lovecraftian touch, since
the dread fate that haunts Lovecraft's characters is not of being
consumed by the polytendrilled abominations but by the schizophrenia
that their appearance often engenders.) Both Rector and Inspector have
to be saved by a third figure, a shamanhero, an Outsider who 'goes
back to the mountains' when the exorcism is complete. The Rector
stands for rectitude and rectilinearity as well as for traditional
religious authority. (The ontological shock that Lovecraft's
monstrosities produce is typically described, any hovercraft reader
will recall, in terms of a twisting of rectilinear geometries.) The
Inspector, meanwhile, as Ian Penman conjectured in his 1980 interview
with The Fall stands for an investigative, empirical world view. The
hero ('his soul possessed a thousand times') has more affinity with
the Spectre, whom he absorbs and becomes ('the spectre possesses the
hero/ but the possession is ineffectual') than with the agents of
rectitude and or empirical investigation. It seems that the hero is
driven more by his addiction to being possessed, which is to say
dispossessed of his own identity ('that was his kick from life') than
from any altruistic motive. He has no love for the social order he
rescues ('I have saved a thousand souls/ they cannon even save their
own') but in which he does not occupy a place. ' "Those flowers take
them away" he said/ "they're only funeral decorations/ and this is a
drudge nation/ a nation of no imagination/ a stupid dead man is their
ideal/ they shirk me and think me unclean..... UNCLEAN....."' In
Madness and Civilization, Foucault argues that the insane occupy the
structural position vacated by the leper, while in 'The Ecstasy of
Communication', Baudrillard describes 'the state of terror proper to
the schizophrenic: too great a proximity of everything, the unclean
promiscuity of everything which touches, invests and penetrates
without resistance, with no halo of private projection to protect him
anymore.' Baudrillard is of course describing the schizophrenia of
media systems which overwhelm all interiority. Television brings us
voices from far away (and there's always something on the other
side...) For Baudrillard, there is an increasing flatness between
media and the schizophrenic delirium in which they feature; psychotics
often describe themselves as receivers for transmitted signal. And
what is the hero of 'Specter versus Rector' if not another version of
the ESP medium of discord that Smith sings of on Psychic Dancehall?
Smith's own methodology as writerranterchanter echoes that of the
heromalcontent. He becomes (nothing but) the mystic pad on which stray
psychic signals impress themselves, the throat through which a warring
multiplicity of mutually antagonistic voices speak. This is not only a
matter of the familiar idea that Smith contains multitudes; the
schizophrenic riot of voices is itself subject to all kinds of
mediation. The voices we hear will often be reported speech, recorded
in the compressed 'telegraphic headline style Smith borrowed from the
Lewis of Blast. Listening to The Fall now, I'm often reminded of
another admirer of Lewis, Marshall McLuhan. The McLuhan of The
Mechanical Bride (subtitle: The Folklore of Industrial Man),
understood very well the complicity between mass media, modernism and
pulp. McLuhan argued that modernist collage was a response to the
perfectly schizophrenic layout of the newspaper front page. (And Poe,
who in addition to his role as a forebear of Weird fiction, was also
the inventor of the Detective genre, plays a crucial role in The
Mechanical Bride.) NEXT In Part 2: Grotesque Peasants! Psychedelic
Communism! Bare Unlife! Ragnorock! I haven't been slacking, honest...
Things are very hectic round here, in a good way. The redundancy seems
more and more like a blessing, since I really need to be able to
devote most of my time to my writing projects. That said, I am going
to need some sort of regular income, so I am on the lookout for some
part-time teaching in the next academic year, preferably HE. If anyone
out there knows of anything suitable in the London area, let me
know... I have taught Philosophy, Religious Studies, English
Literature, Cultural Studies, Writing and Publishing Studies, Critical
Thinking... You can see why they made me redundant, can't you, I'm
nowhere near flexible enough... My two trips to the East Coast over
the last couple of weekends have been incredibly inspiring. (One of
the entirely positive problems I have at the moment is a kind of
inspiration glut actually....) The initial fruit of this will be a
long post on Weird Suffolk which will be about (amongst other Things)
East Anglia's crucial role in the development of weird fiction... The
whole weird fiction line has led me back to The Fall, whom I've been
wanting to write about for years, without ever having the angle which
would do them justice. So expect a post on The Fall as pulp modernism
in the next few days. The long-promised Gothic Nightmares/ Nigel Cooke
post is also a few sentences away from completion. As is a post on
Ripley and Glam, which will tie together themes from my 'Ethics of
Glam' project with ideas from the book on Highsmith that I.T. and I
are planning. Just so this post isn't entirely promissory, I do want
to make a few further remarks about subjective destitution. At the
Lenin's Tomb/kpunk/Infinite Thought/Savanorola/Messures Taken summit
meeting last week, Bat argued that the V for Vendetta version of
subjective destitution was closer to the fascist, rather than the
leftist model, because the destitution is something violently imposed
upon even by what is, in effect, an authority figure. I agree that the
film's presentation of subjective destitution is highly problematic,
but it is important to stress that the subjective destitution is not
something that V does to Evey. Subjective destitution is not
equivalent to debasement (even though, as Savanorola pointed out in
the same conversation, there has been a strong tendency to 'image'
subjective destitution in terms of female debasement). You can be
debased without relinquishing your identity, just as you can
relinquish your identity without being debased. Evey's subjective
destitution happens only when she makes the choice not to identify
with what she had previously thought of as herself. The problem and it
arises from the film's central failure to deal with the impersonality
of capitalist power is that there is no need for the agent of
ontological change, the analyst/activist who exposes the way in which
power constructs reality and identity, also to be a torturer. The
agonies of subjective destitution are caused by giving up the
comfortablebutdamaging identifications which make you suffer in the
first place in the case of analysis, it might initially seem to the
patient that the analyst is attacking them, undermining them, when the
aim is to break the connection between the patient and what is making
them sick. There is no need to subject people in capitalism to
additional suffering; the point is to get them to recognize that the
suffering they are already undergoing is caused by capitalism. Hence
my continual harping on about mental illness. The vast numbers of
people who suffer some kind of mental illness under capitalism can
either think, 'there is some failing with me, if only I could fit into
this system better, if only I were working harder, if only I could
enjoy these empty pleasures more, then things would be OK' OR 'the
problem is with the system that is making me ill...' People already
have their heads shaved in psychiatric wards, dope themselves up on
multinationalpushed prescription zombie pills, or cut themselves ...
the point must be to politicized this, to bring about an ontological
reframing... Owen's comments on disidentity also raise a number of
important issues. There is a sense in which certain types of identity
politics are already disidentifying in what you 'are' or what you
experience yourself as is no longer a natural given. You encounter
yourself now as a member of a group embedded in a contingent social
antagonism. I would still argue, thought, that the temptation here is
to think that there are some actual positive predicates, some agalma,
which your ethos possesses as of right rather than as a structural
effect of that antagonism. At the same time, I can perfectly well see
that the identitarian move is a step perhaps an indispensable one in
some cases towards disidentitying universalism (Malcolm X remains an
exemplary case of someone for whom separatism functioned in this
way).'FE has been a kind of neo-liberal lab in which reforms that will
be implemented in the rest of education have been tried out first...'
My piece on Further Education is in Socialist Worker this week. The
discussion of V for Vendetta on Pinocchio Theory in particular has
been far more interesting than the film deserved. Yes, there is a
certain frisson in seeing a major Hollywood movie refusing to
unequivocally condemn terrorism, but the political analysis in the
film (as in the original comic) is really rather threadbare. That is
Moore's fault; it can't be blamed on the Wachowskis. Like all of
Moore's work, V for Vendetta is considerably less than the sum of its
parts. I've complained before of finding Moore's continual efforts to
reassure himself and his readers of their erudition every time you are
about to succumb to the fictional world, it's as if Moore taps you on
your shoulder and say, 'We're too good for this, aren't we folks?'
highly distracting and irritating. As for V for Vendetta's politics
apart from the subjective destitution scenes, they amount in large
part to the familiar populist ideology which maintains that the world
is controlled by a corrupt oligarchy that could be overthrown if only
people knew about it. Steven says that 'rather than trying to please
all demographics, [the film] identifies a deeply religious,
homophobic, ultrapatriotic, imperialistic surveillance state as the
source of oppression'. But isn't this precisely 'appealing to all
demographics', since few homophobic fascists will identify themselves
as homophobic fascists, and it's hard to imagine anyone warming to
Hurt's foamingatthemouth ranter, still less voting for him. Postmodern
fascism is a disavowed fascism (cue the BNP leaflet delivered through
my door when I lived in Bromley, photograph of a smiling kiddywink,
slogan: 'My daddy's not a fascist'), just as homophobia survives as
disavowed homophobia. The strategy is to refuse the identification
while pursuing the political programme. 'We of course deplore fascism
and homophobia, but...' The Wachowskis' government bans the Koran, but
that is the last thing that Blair and Bush would ever do; no, they
will praise Islam as a 'great religion of peace' while bombing
Muslims. Blair's authoritarian populism is far more sinister than V
for Vendetta's pantomime autocracy precisely because Blair is so
successful at 'presenting himself as the reasonable, honest bloke on
the side of the common man'. Similarly, Bush's linguistic
incompetence, far from being an impediment to his success, has been
crucial to it, since it has allowed him to pose as a 'man of the
people', belying his privileged Harvard and Yaleeducated background.
It is significant in fact that class is not mentioned at all in the
film. As Jameson wryly notes in 'Marx's Purloined Letter', it is not
'particularly surprising that the system should have a vested interest
in distorting the categories whereby we think class and in
foregrounding gender and race, which are far more amenable to liberal
ideal solutions (in other words, solutions that satisfy the demands of
ideology, it being understood that in concrete social life the
problems remain equally intractable).' The climactic scenes of V for
Vendetta, in which the people rise up (by this time, against noone)
made me think, not of some great political Event, but rather of the
Make Poverty History campaign a 'protest' with which noone could
possibly disagree. The comparison with Fight Club does V for Vendetta
no favours; the targets of Tyler Durdon's terrorism were not the fusty
symbols of the political class but the franchise coffee bars and
skyscrapers of impersonal capital. I'm no fan of the Wachowskis'
Matrix, but it succeeded in two ways that V for Vendetta never will.
The Matrix has become a massively propagated pulp mythos (whereas who
but academics will think about the V for Vendetta film a year from
now? It'll be a year after that until academics recognize that the far
more fascinating and sophisticated Basic Instinct II is worthy of
study). More importantly, it suggested that what counts as 'real' is
an eminently political question. That ontological dimension in what is
missing from the progressive populist model, in which the masses
cannon but appear as a dupes, fooled by the lies of the elite but
ready to effectual change the moment they are made aware of the truth.
The reality, of course, is that the 'masses' are under few illusions
about the ruling elite (if anyone is credulous about politicians and
'capitalist parliamentarianism', it is the middle classes). The
Subject Supposed Not To Know is a figure of populist fantasies more
than that: the duped subject awaiting factual enlightenment is the
presupposition on which progressive populism rests. If the most
crucial political task is to enlighten the masses about the venality
of the ruling class, then the preferred mode of discourse will be
denunciation. Yet, this repeats rather than challenges the logic of
the liberal order; it is no accident that the Mail and the Express
favour the same denunciatory mode. Attacks on politicians tend to
reinforce the atmosphere of diffuse cynicism upon which capitalist
realism feeds. What is needed is not more empirical evidence of the
evils of the ruling class but a belief on the part of the subordinate
class that what they think or say matters; that they are the only
effective agents of change. This returns us to the question of
reflexive impotence. Class power has always depended on a kind of
reflexive impotence, with the subordinate class's beliefs about its
own incapacity for action reinforcing that very condition. It would,
of course, be grotesque to blame the subordinate class for their
subordination; but to ignore the role that their complicity with the
existing order plays in a self-fulfilling circuit would, ironically,
be to deny their power. '[C]lass consciousness,' Jameson observes in
'Marx's Purloined Letter', 'turns first and foremost around the
question of subalternity, that is around the experience of
inferiority. This means that the 'lower classes' carry around within
their heads unconscious convictions as to the superiority of hegemonic
or ruling-class expressions or values, which they equally transgress
and repudiate in ritualistic (and socially and politically
ineffective) ways.' There is a way, then, in which inferiority is less
class consciousness than class unconsciousness, less about experience
than about an thought precondition of experience. Inferiority is in
this sense an ontological hypothesis that is not susceptible to any
empirical refutation. Confronted with evidence of the incompetence or
corruption of the ruling class, you will still feel that,
nevertheless, they must possess some agalma, some secret treasure,
that confers upon them the right to occupy the position of dominance.
Enough has been already been written about the kind of class
displacement people like myself have experienced. Dennis Potter's
Nigel Barton plays remain perhaps the most vivid anatomies of the
loneliness and agony experienced by those who have been projected out
of the confining, comforting fatalism of the working class community
and into the incomprehensible, abhorrent seductive rituals of the
privileged world. 'A drive from nowhere leaves you in the cold,' as
the associates sang in 'Club Country'. 'Every breath you breathe
belongs to someone there.' There is a Cartesian paradox about such
experiences, in that they are significant only because they produce a
distantiation from experience as such; after undergoing them, it is no
longer to conceive of experience as some natural or primitive
ontological category. Class, previously a background assumption,
suddenly interposed itself not so much as a site for heroic struggle,
but as a whole menagerie of minor shames, embarrassments and
resentments. What had been taken for granted is suddenly revealed to
be a contingent structure, producing certain effects (and affects).
Nevertheless, that structure is tenacious; the assumption of
inferiority constitutes something like a core programming which makes
sense of the world in advance. To think of oneself as capable of doing
a 'professional' job, for instance, requires a traumatic shift in
perspective, and if there are confidence crises and nervous
breakdowns, they will be very often the consequence of the core
programming intermittently reasserting itself. The real lesson to draw
from Potter's Barton plays is not the fatalistheroic one about the
agonies of the charismatic individual confronting intransigent social
structures. The plays have to be read instead against classasethnicity
and for classasstructure; in any case, as they make clear, the occult
machineries of social structure produce the visible ethnicities of
language, behaviour and cultural expectations. The plays' demand is
not for a acceptance into the rejecting community, nor a full
accession into the elite, but for a mode of collectivity yet to come.
Potter's challenges to naturalism then, become far more than mere polo
trickery. His foregrounding of the way in which fictions structure
reality, and of the role that television itself plays in this process,
brings to the fore all the ontological issues that worthier, more
traditional social realist writers conceal or distort. There is no
realism, Potter suggests, beyond the Real of class antagonism. Now is
perhaps the time to address two good questions that Bat mailed in
response to the reflexive impotence post. First, Bat asked, is the
situation for French teenagers different from that of their British
counterparts? This is easily dealt with, since, after all, it was the
very problem with which the post aimed to deal. French students are
far more embedded in a Fordist/ disciplinary framework than are
British students. In education and employment, the disciplinary
structures survive in France, providing some contrast with, and
resistance to, the cyberspatial pleasure matrix. (For reasons I will
explore in more depth shortly, this is not necessarily for the best,
however.) Bat's second question raised more important issues; doesn't
talking about reflexive impotence reinforce the very interpassive
nihilism it supposedly condemns? I would say that the exact opposite
is the case. I've had more mail about the reflexive impotence post
than any other; mostly, actually, from teenagers and students who
recognize the condition but who, far from being further depressed by
seeing it analysed, find its identification inspiring. There are very
good Spinozist and Althusserian reasons for this seeing the network of
cause-and-effect in which we are unchained is already freedom. By
contrast, what is depressing is the implacable optimism of the
official culture, forever exhorting us to be excited about the latest
drearyshiny cultural product and hectoring us for failing to be
sufficiently positive. A certain 'vulgar Deleuzianism', preaching
against any kind of negativity, provides the theology for this
compulsory excitation, evangelising on the endless delights available
if only we consume harder. But what it is so often inspiring in
politics as much as in popular culture is the capacity to annihilate
present conditions. The nihilative slogan is neither be 'things are
good, there is no need for change', nor 'things are bad, they cannon
change', but 'things are bad, therefore they must change.' This brings
us to subjective destitution, which, unlike Steve Shaviro, I think is
a precondition of any revolutionary action. The scenes of Evey's
subjective destitution in V for Vendetta are the only ones which had
any real political charge. For that reason, they were the only scenes
which produced any real discomfort; the rest of the film does little
to upset the liberal sensibilities which we all carry around with us.
The liberal programme articulates itself not only through the logic of
rights, but also, crucially, through the notion of identity, and V is
attacking both Evey's rights and her identity. Steve says that you
can't will subjective destitution. I, however, would say that you can
only will it, since it is the existential choice in its purest form.
Subjective destitution is not something that happens in any
straightforward empirical sense; it is, rather, an Event precisely in
the sense of being an incorporeal transformation, an ontological
refrain to which you must assent. Evey's choice is between defending
her (old) identity which, naturally, also amounts to a defence of the
ontological framework which conferred that identity upon her and
affirming the evacuation of all previous identifications. What this
brings out with real clarity is the opposition between liberal
identity politics and proletarian disidentity politics. Identity
politics seeks respect and recognition from the master class;
disidentity politics seeks the dissolution of the classificatory
apparatus itself. That is why British students are, potentially, far
more likely to be agents of revolutionary change than are their French
counterparts. The depressive, totally dislocated from the world, is in
a better position to undergo subjective destitution than someone who
thinks that there is some home within the current order that can still
be preserved and defended. Whether on a psychiatric ward, or
prescriptiondrugged into zombie oblivion in their own domestic
environment, the millions who have suffered massive mental damage
under capitalism the decommissioned Fordist robots now on incapacity
benefit as well as the reserve army of the unemployed who have never
worked might well turn out to be the next revolutionary class. They
really do have nothing to lose...  Dominic Fox writes: 'Dennis Potter
lived just down the road from me in RossonWye, where spent my teens. I
mean literally down the road: you could just boutsen his house from
mine. Not that one ever saw Potter himself, who wassomewhat of a
recluse. "To think of oneself as capable of doing a 'professional'
job, forinstance, requires a traumatic shift in perspective, and if
there areconfidence crises and nervous breakdowns, they will be very
often theconsequence of the core programming intermittently
reassertingitself." Potter's own autobiographical sketch in "Occupying
Powers" (the JamesMacTaggart Memorial Lecture he gave in 1993, most
famous for hischaracterisation of Birt and Hussey as "croakvoiced
daleks") includesIIRC the comment that his psoriasis (and depression)
flared up cripplingly at just the moment when the ambitious, eager
youngOxford graduate was about to embark on a Bartonstyle career
politics himself. I'm sure one could recruit Potter to the cause of
Militant Dysphoria... A number of half-completed posts have been held
up by my having to deal with the redundancy issue and with the
reflexive impotents. But posts on Nigel Cooke, the Gothic Nightmares
exhibition and class and subjective destitution should appear very
early next week. In the meantime, my interview with Julian House is in
the current issue of Fact magazine, available free from many record
shops in the UK. I'm going to the East coast for the weekend; I may
very well write a post about that when I return. I'll leave you with a
quote from 'The Purloined Marx', Jameson's 1995 essay on spectres of
Marx: 'Capitalism... as in the historical narrative we have inherited
from the triumphant bourgeoisie and the great bourgeois revolutions,
is the first social form to have eliminated religion as such and to
have entered on the purely secular vocation of human life and human
society. Yet according to Marx, religion knows an immediate 'return of
the repressed' at the very moment of the coming into being of such a
secular society, which, imagining it has done away with the sacred,
then at once unconsciously sets itself in pursuit of the 'fetishism of
commodities'. The incoherence is resolved if only we understand that a
truly secular society is yet to come, lies in the future...' I'm
trying to write about something else, I'm trying to listen to
something else, but at the moment, it's all about Burial. The
interview at Blackdown only adds to the intrigue ('Its good to have
girls liking it'; 'theres no musicianship in my sound, thats the enemy
of my tunes'). It's Burial's ability to hold these two things together
the modernist rejection of 'music' and the drive to reconnect with a
female audience which goes some way to accounting for why his sound is
so overpoweringly seductive. And also why it is a genuine inheritor of
dub science. As I argue on Dissensus: 'the best dub always has a
relationship to a certain sweetness of (the) Song. The white take-up
of dub has often seemed to think that you can make dub more intense by
entirely removing those elements and simply turning up the bass. A
parallel error was made in jungle, when the inhumanfeminine cheese
rave elements were stripped out and you ended up with the rigor mortis
of techstep. Course the point is that the bass sounds all the more
powerful BY CONTRAST with those sweet elements (and the Song sounds
all the more plaintive, all the more affecting for being disappeared
in front of our ears that's why the best dub is literally sublime).'
Autonomic for the People shares my enthusiasm, with a brilliant post
that also forms part of the growing discussion about Burial Dissensus.
I.T.: 'it just does sound like south London, from the seagulls to the
reverberating car stereos to the mad muttering of psychwards patients
on dayrelease.' Partly, it's the uncanniness of listening to a sound
that so perfectly captures the feeling of the streets in which one
lives that makes the LP so madly compelling. (But it's not as if it
only reverberates for London listeners; for Autonomic, 'it's vividly
reminiscent of growing up in Winnipeg near the train yards, and
hearing their horns and screeches wafting for miles through the thick
summer air.') In any case, it's starting to feel like Burial is the
most important album since Dizzee's debut. But while Dizzee's sound
was ultradry, all brittle percussion and harshly angular electronics,
Burial's sound is smeary, blurred; and while Dizzee's depression was
unmistakeably teenage in its orgins, Burial's sadness belongs to
someone older. I'm reminded of Joy Division, not only because of the
newdawnfades dreamsalwaysend mood, but also because of the way in
which the production recalls Hannet's: Autonomic on Burial: 'It
reminds me of a car purposefully moving through a cold wet city night
while a passenger stares, heartinthroat, out the back window,
remembering places and people as they pass.' Jon Savage on Unknown
Pleasures, 1979: 'Joy Division's spatial circular themes and marine
Hannett's shiny, waking dream production gloss are a perfect
reflection of Manchester's dark spaces and empty places: endless
sodium lights and semis seen from a speeding car, vacant industrial
sites the endless detritus of the l9th century seen gaping like teeth
from an orange bus.' 1. Owen brilliant on My Life in the Bush of
Ghosts. I've had this album for two decades, but Owen has made me hear
it in a completely new way. Worth comparing with Cabaret Voltaire's
Voice of America and Red Mecca, and Front 242's later 'Funkghadafi',
the latter shamelessly and openly mining the mystique of the
'terrorist Other' for 'pure sensation'. The Eno/ political line is
fascinating, and worthy of further investigation. I wonder how Eno's
later advocacy of portion pragmatism (which he opposed, pointedly, to
'fundamentalism') connects with Bush of Ghosts' exoticization of
Islam, and how both connect to his current anti-war stance. Also check
out Owen's new space ('for fragments, the flagrantly unfinished,
frippery of various kinds, links, polemics, pretty pictures,
complaints about one's health and things with similar lack of
rigour'). 2. Three stunning posts by Dominic Fox. Militant dysphagia
may be precisely the concept I was gesturing towards with my vague
notion of 'positive disengagement'. In their paper at the cizek
conference in Oxford last week, lorenzo Chiesa and Alberto volcano
quoted what could well become the militant dysphoriacs' motto: 'Enough
with Hedone, we want Agape!' 3. Interesting parallel responses to the
Reflexive Impotence post: Mountain 7: 'Reflexive Impotence and
Depressive hedonic  an inability to do anything else except pursue
pleasure  reopens the perspective on what some of us were witnessing
at the time of this injuncture: Blank response, an arrogant monied
acceptance of the costs of higher education, organized action lacking
the menace of violence that (as our French counterparts have shown) is
almost always necessary to genuine protest. Contrast. Frenzied
excitement that greeted the opening of yet another aspirational bar.
All plastic sheen, posturing and almost suicidal excess of alcohol.'
Blissblog: 'Trader Joe'sa Whole Foodsstyle chain of markets with
delicious, healthful, incredibly cheap produce (nuts, coffee, wine,
etc) plus prepared meals and budgetgourmet stuff (salsas, pasta
sauces, etc) recently opened to much fanfare in New York, and on the
opening day there were queues round the block, people waiting hours to
be admitted into what is at the end of the day a supermarket! It
seemed weirdpossibly a sign of the timesthat the kind of
anticipation/excitement once motivated by the release of an epochal
album Sgt Peppers, or in more recent years the new Radiohead or new
Oasis album (when they were at their phoneyBeatlemania peak) would now
be motivated by the prospect of organic cashews and Fair Trade Costa
Rica coffee.' 4. Meanwhile, Bat sends me a link to a BBC story saying
that 'Goths are more likely to selfharm'. This interestingly compares
with the Guardian piece I.T. linked to a while back which argued that
'goths make the best pupils'. Both of these claims Goths selfharm;
Goths are the best students square with my experience. It fits: both
education and selfharm lie beyond the pleasure principle, and finding
enjoyment beyond redone is more than ever likely to make you an
outsider. Most of the Goths I teach are voracious readers who have
serious political commitments. The other significant exceptions to the
depressive hedonic rule, by the way, are black Christians. 5. Everyone
in London interested in theory should try to make this: 'Alain Badiou,
Being and events book launch with Oliver Feltham, Justin Clemens and
Alberto volcano To celebrate the recent publication by Continuum books
of Alain Badiou's 1988 magnum opus L'Etre et l'evenement, crisp
(Centre for the Study of Invention and Social Process) will host a
round-table and discussion between the book's translator, Oliver
Feltham, and two scholars of Badiou's work, who will collectively try
to introduce some of the book's principal themes being as
multiplicity, the idea of the generic, the naming of the event, the
difference between presentation and representation. Thursday with
April2.006.00pmVenue to be confirmed reception will follow the
discussion at pm The event is free but please register in advance at
savonarola@hotmail.co.uk' 'From the moment that human beings started
communicating with electrical and electromagnetic signals, the ether
has been a spooky place. Four years after Samuel Morse strung up his
first telegraph wire in 1844, two young girls in upstate New York
kick-started Spiritualism, a massively popular occult religion which
attempted to fuse science and seance. [...] Now, you may think that
this ghoulish dialtweaking has gone the way of the dousing rod, but
electromagnetic spiritualism is alive and well [...]. Today
aficionados call it Electronic Voice Phenomena, or EVP. [...]
Interestingly, one of the most important requirements for good eve is
the presence of noise: a distorted channel, interference, echo,
superimposition. In other words, all the active elements of our
current hiphop/dub biology are designed to receive these spectral
messages. No wonder the stuff can put you into another world.' Erik
Davis, Dead Machines: A review of The Ghost Orchid and electromagnetic
voice phenomena A MASSIVE new addition to the sonic tautology canon:
the self-titled album by Burial on Kode 9's Hyperdub label. Burial is
the kind of album I've dreamt of for years; literally. It is oneiric
dance music, a collection of the 'dreamed songs' Ian Penman imagined
in his epochal piece on Tricky's Maxinquaye. Maxinquaye would be a
reference point here, as would Pole like both these artists, Burial
conjures audiospectres out of crackle, foregrounding rather than
repressing sound's accidental materialities. Tricky and Pole's
'cracklology' was a further development of dub's materialist sorcery
in which 'the seam of its recording was turned inside out for us to
hear and exult in; when we had been used to the "re" of recording
being repressed, recessed, as though it really were just a
representation of something that already existed in its own right'
(Penman). But rather than the hydrophobic heat of Tricky's Bristol or
the dank caverns of Pole's Berlin, Burial's sound evokes what the
press release calls a 'near future South London underwater. You can
never tell if the crackle is the burning static off pirate radio, or
the tropical downpour of the submerged city out of the window.' Near
future, maybe... But listening to Burial as I walk through damp and
drizzly South London streets in this abortive Spring, it strikes me
that the LP is very London Now which is to say, it suggests a city
haunted not only by the past but by lost futures. It seems to have
less to do with a near future than with the tantalising ache of a
future just out of reach. It's interesting to compare the LP with the
forthcoming EP on kin by Johnny Dark (see my press release here).
Johnny's toronto-based 'nustep' is a kind of science fictional what
exercise; what if the late is London step inhumanfeminine sound had
continued to mutate without devolving into the sullen dead ends of
grime and dubstep? The ultraexuberance of Johnny's sound 'garish
rather than grimy' contrasts starkly with the mournful restraint of
the Burial album. Instead of the 'can't wait' of 2step's orgasmic
anticipationplateau, Burial is haunted by what once was, what could
have been, and most seemingly what could still happen. Johnny's sound
has all the freshness of newly sprayed graffiti; the Burial LP is like
the faded ten year-old tag of a kid whose rave dreams have been
crushed by a series of dead end job. Burial is an elegy for the
hardcore continuum, a Memories from the Haunted Ballroom for the rave
generation. It is like walking into the abandoned spaces once
carnivalized by raves and finding them returned to depopulated
dereliction. Muted air horns flare like the ghosts of raves past.
Broken glass cracks underfoot. MDMA flashbacks bring London to unlike
in the way that hallucinogens brought demons crawling out of the
subways in Jacob's Ladder's New York. Audio hallucinations transform
the city's rhythms into inorganic beings, more dejected than malign.
You see faces in the clouds and hear voices in the crackle. What you
momentarily thought was muffled bass turns out only to be the rumbling
of tube trains. Burial's mourning and melancholia sets it apart from
dubstep's emotional autism and austerity. My problem with dusted has
been that in constituting dub as a positive entity, with no relation
to the Song or to Pop, it has too often missed the speciality wrought
by dub's subtractioninprocess. The emptying out has tended to produce
not space but an oppressive, claustrophobic flatness. If, by contrast,
Burial's schizophrenic tautology has a d depth of field it is in part
because of the way it grants a privileged role to voices under
erasure, returning to dub's phonodecrentism. (Penman again Dub 'makes
of the Voice not a self-possession but a dispossession a "re"
possession by the studio, devoured through the hidden circuits of the
recording console.') Snatches of plaintive vocal sitter through the
tracks like fragments of abandoned love letters blowing through
streets blighted by an unnamed catastrophe. The effect is as
heartbreaking poignant as the long tracking shot in Tarkovsky's
Stalker that lingers over sublime objectsbecome trash. Burial's London
is a wounded city, populated by ecstasy casualties on day release from
psychiatric units, disappointed lovers on night buses, parents who
can't quite bring themselves to sell their rave 12 inches at a carbon
sale, all of them with haunted looks on their faces, but also haunting
their interpassively nihilist kids with the thought that things
weren't always like this. The sadness in the Dem 2 meets mini
Reillyera Durutti Column 'You Hurt Me' and 'Gutted' is almost
overwhelming. 'Southern Comfort' only deaden the pain. Ravers have
become deadbeats, and Burial's beats are accordingly undead like the
tito of an offkilter metronome in an abandoned Silent Hill school, the
klakklak of graffitisplashed ghost trains idling in sidings. 10 years
ago, kodak compared the 'harsh, roaring noise' of No UTurn's 'hoover
bass' with like the sound of a thousand car alarms going off
simultaneously'. The subdued bass on Burial is the spectral echo of a
roar, burned-out cars remembering the noise they once made. Burial
reminds me, actually, of paintings by Nigel Cooke currently on show,
appropriately enough, at the South London Gallery in Camberwell. I'll
be writing more about Cooke's paintings over the next few days, but
the morose figures Cooke graffiti onto his own paintings are perfect
visual analogues for Burial's sound. A decade ago, jungle and hip hop
invoked devils, demons and angels. Burial's sound , however, summons
the 'chainsmoking plants and sobbing vegetables' that sigh longingly
in Cooke's painting. Speaking at the Tate last week, Cooke observed
that much of the violence of graffiti comes from its velocity. There's
something of an affinity between the way that Cooke recreates graffiti
in the 'slow' medium of oil paints and the way in which Burial
submerge (dubmerge?) rave's hyperkinetic in a stately melancholia.
Burial's dilapidated Afro futurism does for London in the is what Wu
Tang did for New York in the 90s. It delivers what Massive Attack
promised but never really achieved. It's everything that Goldie's
Timeless ought to have been. It's the Dub City counterpart to Luomo's
Vocalcity. Imagine a specialized Gorrilaz on downers, but a tenth as
smug and ten times as evocative. Burial is one of the albums of the
decade. Trust me. Why are French students out on the streets rejecting
neoliberalism, while British students, whose situation is incomparably
worse, resigned to their fate? The answer to that question is partly,
also, an answer to why a group like the Arctic Monkeys connect with
British teenagers. It is a matter not of apathy, nor of cynicism, but
of reflexive impotence. It is reflexive impotence that you hear in the
Arctic Monkeys yes, they know things are bad, but more than that, they
know they can't do anything about it. But that 'knowledge', that
reflexivity, is not a passive observation of an already existing state
of affairs. It is a self-fulfilling prophecy. And guess what? They
probably know that too. Reflexive impotence amounts to an unstated
worldview amongst the British young. Many of the teenagers I work with
have mental health problems or learning difficulties. Depression is
endemic. The number of students who have some variant of dyslexia is
astonishing. It is not an exaggeration to say that being a teenager in
late capitalist Britain is now close to being reclassified as a
sickness. This pathologization already foreclose any possibility of
politicization. By privatizing problems treating them as if they were
caused only by the individual's neurology and/ or family background
any question of social systemic causation is ruled out. Part of the
success of neoliberalism has consisted in its presenting of capitalism
as 'purely economic', as if the the 'mental health plague' and the
routine disintegration of families have nothing whatsoever to do with
capitalist 'creative destruction'. Mental health, in fact, is a
paradigm case of how Capitalist Realism operates. Capitalist Realism
insists on treating mental health as if it were a natural fact, like
weather (but, then again, we know that even weather is no longer a
natural fact). Poor mental health is of course a massive source of
revenue for multinational drugs companies. You pay for a cure from the
very system that made you sick in the first place. The majority of
students I encounter seem to be in a state of what I'd call depressive
hedonia. Depression is usually characterised in terms of anhedonia,
but the state I'm referring to is constituted not by an inability to
get pleasure so much as it by an inability to do anything else except
pursue pleasure. There is a sense that 'something is missing' but no
appreciation that this mysterious, missing enjoyment can only be
accessed beyond the pleasure principle. In large part this is a
consequence of students' ambiguous structural position, stranded
between their old role as subjects of disciplinary institutions and
their new status as consumers of services. In his crucial essay
'Postscript on Societies of Control', Deleuze distinguishes between
the disciplinary societies described by Foucault, which were organized
around the enclosed spaces of the factory, the school and the prison,
and the new control societies, in which all institutions are embedded
in a dispersed corporation.According to Deleuze, the
factoryschoolprison system was an expression of the nineteenth century
'capitalism of concentration'.With this in mind, cru once described
schools as 'concentration camps', spaces in which bodies were
confined, subdued and forced to concentrate. Walk into almost any
class at the college where I teach and you will immediately appreciate
that you are in a postdisciplinary framework. Foucault painstakingly
enumerated the way in which discipline was installed through the
imposition of rigid body postures. During lessons at our college,
however, students will be found slumped on desk, talking almost
constantly, snacking incessantly (or even, on occasions, eating full
meals). The old disciplinary segmentation of time is breaking down.
The carrera regime of discipline is being eroded by the technologies
of control, with their systems of perpetual consumption and continuous
development. The 'market Stalinist' funding system and the parlous
state of the college finances means that the college literally cannon
afford to exclude students, even if it wanted to. The lack of an
effective disciplinary system has not, to say the least, been
compensated for by an increase in student selfmotivation. Students are
aware that if they don't show up for weeks on end, and/ or if they
don't produce any work, they will not face any meaningful sanction.
They typically respond to this freedom not by pursuing projects but by
falling into hedonic (or anhedonic) lassitude: the soft narcosis, the
simstim eternity, the comfort food oblivion of Playstation, all-night
TV and marijuana. Capital's interpassive nihilism. Ask students to
read for more than a couple of sentences and many and these are Alevel
students mind you will protest that they can't do it. The most
frequent complaint teachers hear is that it's boring. It is not so
much the content of the written material that is at issue here; it is
the act of reading itself that is deemed to be 'boring'. What we are
facing here is not just time-honoured teenage torpor, but the mismatch
between a postliterate 'New Flesh' that is 'too wired to concentrate'
and the confining, concentration logics of decaying disciplinary
systems. There is a sense, of course, in which reading is boring. Upon
first encounter, philosophical or literary writing which is genuinely
new will be frustrating and difficult. But that is true of the
acquisition of any skill learning to play a musical instrument, for
instance, is demanding before it is enjoyable. A certain
hedonicconservative consensus holds sway, however, which holds, with
Homer Simpson, that 'if something is too hard to do, then it's not
worth doing'. On this account, 'boring' is not opposed to
'interesting'. To be bored simply means to be removed from the
communicative sensationstimulus matrix of texting, MTV and fast food,
to be denied, for a moment, the constant flow of sugary gratification
on demand. Some students want Nietzsche in the same way that they want
a hamburger; they fail to grasp and the logic of the consumer system
encourages this misapprehension that the indigestibility, the
difficulty is Nietzsche. An illustration. I challenged one student
about why he always wore headphones in class. He replied that it
didn't matter, because he wasn't actually playing any music. In
another lesson, he was playing music at very low volume through the
headphones, without wearing them. When I asked him to switch it off,
he replied that 'even he couldn't hear it'. Why wear the headphones
without playing music or play music without wearing the headphones?
Because the presence of the phones on the ears or the knowledge that
the music is playing (even if he couldn't hear it) was a reassurance
that the matrix was still there, within reach. The use of headphones
is significant here Pop is experienced not as something which could
have impacts upon public space, but as a retreat into private oedipus
consumer bliss, a walling up against the social. The consequence of
being hooked into the entertainment matrix is twitchy, agitated
interpassivity, an inability to concentrate or focus. Students'
incapacity to connect current lack of focus with future failure, their
inability to synthesize time into any coherent narrative, is
symptomatic of more than mere demotivation. It is, in fact, eerily
reminiscent of Jameson's analysis in 'Postmodernism and Consumer
Society'. Jameson observed there that Lacan's theory of schizophrenia
offered a 'suggestive aesthetic model' for understanding the
fragmenting of subjectivity in the face of the emerging
entertainmentindustrial complex. 'With the breakdown of the signifying
chain' Jameson summarised, 'the Lacanian schizophrenic is reduced to
an experience of pure material signifiers, or, in other words, a
series of pure and unrelated presents in time. ' Jameson was writing
in the late 1980s i.e. the period in which most of my students were
born. What we in the classroom are now facing is a generation born
into that ahistorical, antimnemic blip culture a generation, that is
to say, for whom time has always come ready-cut into digital
microslices. If the figure of discipline was the workerprisoner, the
figure of control is the debtoraddict. Cyberspatial capital operates
by admitting its users; Gibson recognized that in necromancer when he
had Case and the other cyberspace cowboys feeling insectsundertheskin
strung out when they unplugged from the matrix (Case's amphetamine
habit is plainly the substitute for an addiction to a far more
abstract speed). If, then, something like Attention Deficit
Hyperactivity Disorder is a pathology, it is a pathology of late
capitalism a consequence of being wired into the entertainmentcontrol
circuits of hypermediated consumer culture. Similarly, what is called
dyslexia may in many cases amount to a postlexia. Teenagers process
capital's imagedense data very effectively without any need to read
sloganrecognition is sufficient to navigate the nettabloidmagazine
informational plane. 'Writing has never been capitalism's thing.
Capitalism is profoundly illiterate,' Deleuze and Guattari argued in
AntiOedipus. 'Electric language does not go by way of the voice or
writing: data processing does without them both.' Hence the reason why
many successful business people are dyslexic (but is there postlexical
efficiency a cause or effect of their success?) Teachers are now put
under intolerable pressure to mediate between the postliterate
schizosubjectivity of the late capitalist consumer and the demands of
the disciplinary regime (to pass examinations etc). This is one way in
which education, far from being in some ivory tower safely inured from
the 'real world', is the engine room of the reproduction of social
reality, directly confronting the inconsistencies of the capitalist
social field. Teachers are often exasperated at students for their
failure to see that, if they do not attend classes, or do any reading
or thinking at home, then they will not pass the exams. But our
mistake is in supposing that all students care about passing exams.
Many don't. Many are at college not because of their own ambitions,
but because of their parents'. Attending college, or rather,
sporadically attending college, sustains their parents' fantasies
(that their offspring will all become lawyers and doctors), leaving
students free to nurture their fantasies (of ascending, effortfree,
into the ranks of celebritydom). It is worth stressing that none of
the students I teach have any legal obligation to be at college. They
could leave if they wanted to. But the lack of any meaningful
employment opportunities, together with cynical encouragement from
government means that college seems to be the easier, safer option.
Deleuze says that control societies are based on debt rather than
enclosure; but there is a way in which the current education system
both indents and encloses students. Pay for your own exploitation, the
logic insists get into debt so you can get the same major you could
have walked into if you'd left school at 16 ... What many students
most want from college, although they would never admit it, is an
authority structure. There is a demand for an authority which they can
then reject; they want to be told what to do, so they can disobey. It
is a textbook case of bad faith, a flight from freedom. Interpassive
nihilism again. Teachers are caught between being
faciltitatorentertainers and disciplinarianauthoritarians. Teachers
want to help students to pass the exams; they want us to be authority
figures who tell them what to do. Teachers being interrelated by
students as authority figures exacerbates the 'boredom' problem, since
isn't anything that comes from the place of authority a prior boring?
Ironically, the role of disciplinarian is demanded of educators more
than ever at precisely the time when disciplinary structures are
breaking down in institutions. With families buckling under the
pressure of capitalism, teachers are now increasingly required to act
as surrogate parents, instilling the most basic behavioural protocols
in students and providing pastoral and emotional support for teenagers
who are in some cases barely socialised. What, then, are the
possibilities for politicization now? On the face of it, the situation
is bleak. Jameson observed that 'the breakdown of temporality suddenly
releases [the] present of time from all the activities and
intentionalities that might focus it and make it a space of praxis'.
But nostalgia for the context in which the old types of praxis
operated is plainly useless. The French model which amounts to a
demand to retain the Fordist/disciplinary regime could not work here.
Fordism has definitively collapsed in Britain, and with it the
efficacy of the old politics. At the end of the control essay, Deleuze
wonders what new forms an anticontrol politics might take: 'One of the
most important questions will concern the ineptitude of the unions:
tied to the whole of their history of struggle against the disciplines
or within the spaces of enclosure, will they be able to adapt
themselves or will they give way to new forms of resistance against
the societies of control? Can we already grasp the rough outlines of
the coming forms, capable of threatening the joys of marketing? Many
young people strangely boast of being "motivated"; they request
apprenticeships and permanent training. It's up to them to discover
what they're being made to serve, just as their elders discovered, not
without difficulty, the tells of the disciplines.' What must be
discovered is a way out the motivation/ motivation binary, so that
misidentification from the control program registers as something
other than dejected apathy. A positive disengagement, in other words,
involving forms of collective activity which break down the oedipus
solitude of the entertainmentconsumer. 'Catherine is older in this
film and the situations are different  shes challenging the whole
psychoanalytic system...' MadeinAtlantis.com 'Heck, even the way she
wears her clothes is fascinating. Her costume designer has given her a
series of linestraddling outfits. At one point, one hand is gloved and
the other ungloved, and several of her dresses feature one clothed
shoulder and one bare. It's as if the costume is telling us Catherine
is both a heroine and a villain. Or that the movie is both very bad
and very good.' Chris Hewitt (St. Paul Pioneer Press ) What happened
to David Cronenberg? Wasnt he attached to direct this film at one
point? Sharon Stone: You know, we love him, of course. Hes so talented
and so amazing, and how great was Crash? Ohmygod. He is the most
gentle, interesting, intelligent, sophisticated person and one of my
most thingsits a little private thing but Ill share it with youMarty
Scorsese wanted to see Crash so I made a surprise dinner party for him
and invited David Cronenberg over to the house and screened the movie.
Oh, what a fun night! You know, that was a biggie. He had really great
ideas, but that would have been a very different kind of movie. I
think that in the end, people just got kind of afraid that maybe it
wouldnt be so commercial, because, not to say that some of his ideas
didnt remain in the movie because they did, but whats funny enough is
that some of his ideas that they were the most afraid of remained in
the movie. Melissa Walters Basic Instinct: a film with this many bad
reviews must have something going for it...Tim raises a number of
interesting questions over at The Wrong Side of Capitalism. The key
passage is the following: The materialist critique [of religion] does
not assert that religion is false; indeed, it would be almost more
accurate to say that the materialist critique shows that religion is
true or, better, it shows in what sense religion is true, how religion
arises from and so reflects material conditions. So a communist
engagement with Islam would not reject Islam, but would involve
figuring out how an Islamic vocabulary can articulate communist
projects (and if this is not going to just be bad faith, we shouldnt
expect our own communism to come out of the encounter unchanged). It
strikes me, though, that, even as it acknowledges the hyperstitional
effectivity of religion, the Marxian argument presupposes the falsity
of religion, but makes the crucial point that merely exposing this
falsity can not be sufficient. Idealism stops at merely denouncing
religion; materialism must live that denunciation. In the same way, a
ruthless demolition of commoditytheology must involve behavioural, not
merely, cognitive changes. Capitalism is a set of rituals. I observed
in the comments boxes at the Wrong Side that it is a set of rituals
that give rise to beliefs, but, on second thoughts, this is
misleading. Capitalism does not require us to hold a particular set of
cognitive beliefs; it only requires that we act as if certain beliefs
(about money, commodities etc) are true. The rituals are the beliefs,
beliefs which, at the level of subjective selfdescription, may well be
disavowed. What is needed, then, is a new set of rituals. This leads
us back, once again, to the question of what an anti-capitalist
economy would look like. Economics are the method, the object is to
change the soul, as someone once said. Turning now to the question of
Communisms relation to Islam. There is a sense in which what Tim is
saying  that a communist engagement with Islam would not reject Islam,
but would involve figuring out how an Islamic vocabulary can
articulate communist projects must be right. One problem, however, is
that from the point of (most) believers, this kind of engagement would
already amount to a rejection. Im not sure that Liberation Theology
has ever satisfactorily resolved the tensions between Marxisms social
naturalism (the claim that all beliefs have their origins in social
practice) and religions supernaturalism (the claims that its beliefs
are underwritten by divine will). How might an Islamic vocabulary
articulate communist projects, then? Ironically, of course, given the
seeming insistence on some quarters of ethnicizing Islam, one of the
potentially emancipatory aspects of Islam is precisely its
deracializing and deethnicising emphasis. The privileging of the umma,
the Islamic community, over race and nation means that Islam offers
what is perhaps the only currently effective alternative 'globalism'
to capitalism's multinationalization. In reality, of course, Islam is
as riven by sectarian disputes as capital remains tied to
territoriality. But the universalising impulse in Islam is perhaps
something that could potentially be mobilised by communism. It was
this aspect of Islam that Malcolm X celebrated in Islam after his
epiphany visit to Mecca. In his letter from Jedda, April 10, 1964, X
called Islam 'the one religion that erases the race problem from its
society' (Malcolm X Speaks, p. 59).What is interesting here is not
only that X's later advocacy of universalism differs so radically from
his earlier separatism and black nationalism, but also that both
positions were articulated via Islam. Malcolm's initial religious
conversion was intensely racialized, and race was immediately
politicized. The way that Islam was introduced to Malcolm in prison
produced a kind of ontological shock, a refrain of all his previous
experience. Islam was the mediator which allowed Malcolm to encounter
blackness as a political category rather than a natural/social fact,
enabling him to explain his past history of gambling and petty
criminality as an effect of systemic processes. The later turn away
from separatism, the shift in his antiracist thinking from an emphasis
on black nationalism towards a deracializing universalism, followed
his break from Elijah Muhhamad, if not from Islam as a whole. Malcolm
X's situation was so tied up with a specific national and historical
context that it would be foolish to draw any hasty conclusions from
his case. But it does seem to highlight difficulties with the
race/religion matrix. One problem, it seems to me, is that the
race/religion prism meant that Malcolm's separatist position and his
later universalism had to be held sequentially, rather than
simultaneously. Marxism, on the other hand, is not only capable of
'squaring this circle', it is based on the idea that a particular
group (the proletariat) can stand in for the universal. Bat came into
the college last week to talk to the students about Marx and religion,
and one of the most interesting questions, posed by a Christian
student, was: what is it about religion that means that it cannon
provide the basis for struggle and positive change in the way that
class politics can? Bat answered as I would have answered: that
religion is too tribalism and sectarian to produce an opposition to
multinationalized capital. Capital's alleged universality, the fact
that theoretically at least it subjects everyone to an abstract
equivalence, generates an antagonist which can proclaim real
universality and genuine equality. Ironically, it is now, when the
idea of a proletariat is abandoned in favour of the 'multitude' or the
'people' that the concept starts to have an unprecedented purchase on
social reality. In the generalized insecurity of post-fordist
precarity, the tendency is for all labour including that of the
capitalist to become proletarianized. This isn't to deny or in any way
downplay the systematic plunder by the managerial underclass (anyone
in any doubt about that need only take a look at the graphs in
Harvey's A Brief History of Neoliberalism, which show the vertiginous
increase in the pay of CEOS over the last thirty years). But few
people, no matter how cloistered they are in wealth, can fully exempt
them from a bipolar social reality defined by unpredictable, sudden
and violent change, and ruled not by the whim of individuals but by
the idiot diktat of Capital. The disaster of Cultural Studies lay in
its ethnicizing of the 'working class', in its paeans to the 'dignity'
of working class life, its celebrations of the microresistances
supposedly demonstrated by 'subversively' watching soap operas and
such like. What Cultural Studies did, in other words, was to
assimilate Marxism into identity politics. That move totally
undermined the basis of Marxism, which would be better described as a
disidentity politics. This is not to suggest that Marxism entails the
empirical destruction of identities and ethnicities. It is to say that
for Marxism, collectivity is organized on the basis of an indifference
to difference. Perhaps, with radio and Sartre as well as Marx in mind,
it is worth positing a distinction between subjectivity and identity
here. Identitarianism assumes that people are condemned to identify
with the positive (ethnic/ gender/ nationalistic) predicates they
possess, as if their subjectivity were exhausted by those properties.
Exactly the opposite is the case: the authentic dimension of
subjectivity consists not in any positive identity but in that which
makes identifications. Seemingly bizarrely, this is why the (Lacanian)
cogito from which, not only all biosocial facticity but any
phenomenological qualix (the texture or depth of experience) have been
evacuated can serve as the basis for collective politics. This is why
the claim that the proletariat are replicants goes beyond being
metaphor. The question cizek poses in respect of the replicants in
Blade Runner 'where is the cogito, the place of my selfconsciousness,
when everything I actually am is an artifact not only my body, my
eyes, but even my most intimate memories and fantasies?' can also be
posed of the subjects of late capitalism. What the winds of capital
have scoured away, essentially, is the ability to believe that the
positive content of our identities is more than a (cultural or
neurological) implant. (And isn't the real libidinal impulse behind
the Cult Studs Difference Industry a desperate attempt to shore up the
belief that there are those elsewhere who can still believe?) The
Proletarian Cogito begins at the point where historical materialism
meets eliminate materialism? with the affirmation of this monotheistic
destitution, the renunciation of nostalgic simulations. Infinite
Thought set the old men straight when she appeared on the Beckett Post
War panel at the barbican Saturday, as part of the celebrations of
Beckett's centenary. The problem lay in the staleness of the setup,
which conceptualized Beckett in terms of 'existentialism', as if not
only had the last forty years of Beckett reception in philosophy
Deleuze, Derrida, Blanchot, radio not happened, but also that
existentialism could still be understood in the same way that it was
half a century ago. Thankfully, I.T. was there to correct both these
misapprehensions. The other panellists insisted on seeing Beckett in
the terms that had been established in the 1950s. Ken games argued
that Beckett's work was a literary expression of the death of God.
Jonathan Re, who admitted he had little to say about Beckett, proved
the point by persistently talking about Sartre. From the audience,
Beckett's longtime publisher John Calder insisted that Beckett was a
lapsed Christian turned Schopenhauerian. It is not that these
parallels tell us nothing about Beckett. What they don't address is
what is novel about his work. The death of God and of meaning had
already been dealt with by dostoevsky in the middle of the nineteenth
century. And, As I.T. pointed out, any comparison between Beckett and
Sartre must confront the profound difference between Beckett's
formal(ist) innovations and Sartre's classicism.(Part of what makes
Sartre interesting is that he so often corresponds to Foucault's
acerbic description of him as 'a man of the nineteenth century trying
to think in the twentieth.') What is new about Beckett is that his
work presupposes rather than thematizes the death of God. This is
effectuated in large part through his formal inventiveness, which
destroys meaning rather than represents or describes such a
destruction. There is no doubt a element of Schopenhauer in Beckett's
work but it is Schopenhauer after Cantor and Freud. games captured the
originality of Schopenhauer's pessimism very well when he said that
there had been pessimists prior to Schopenhauer who had proclaimed
that life was bad, but Schopenhauer had shown why life must always be
bad because of the will's perpetual dissatisfaction with any of the
objects it pursues. Freud famously read Schopenhauer for the first
time while preparing Beyond the Pleasure Principle but is worth
reflecting on how Freud's formulation exceeds Schopenhauer's. With
Freud, it is no longer a matter of 'will' or life as it was with
Schopenhauer, but of a death drive, an infinitely plasticized,
artificial drive which bears no relationship to the cyclicity of
nature. The fact that we are possessed, indeed animated, by this
undead impulse, means that however much we may wish to give up,
something keeps dragging us forward. The Unnamable's famous 'I'll go
on' is not a statement of organic persistence but the voice of the
inorganic todestrieb. In Beckett, pessimism might be earnestly hoped
for, but it cannon be achieved. Not because of some phenomenological
core of irrepressible vitality but because of the remorseless
instability of the death drive, that excess, that 'more', which
constitutively obstructs any possibility of achieving the quiescence
of nirvana. Things could always get worse, but that is very far from
being comforting, since we're always heading towards the worst
westward ho! but we shall never attain it. Beckett's figures a much
more appropriate word than 'characters' for these ventriloquist's
dummies, these linguistic marionettes seem to subsist on the
transfinite plane of cantabrian continuum, which even an omniscient
being could not know or exhaustively count. Is it not that God has
departed, or died it's worse than that: even if God were around, it
wouldn't help. But Beckett was well aware that human beings were
inhabited by another inhuman structure, in addition to the death
drive: the ceaseless jabber of language. A jabber which is a constant
reminder that, much as we might want to be, we can never be alone.
Language is itself an Other, and because it is always addressed to
Others, or at least presupposes an abstract Other, the ineluctable
impulse to write and speak is always snatching the silent serenity of
solipsism away from us. The idea that there is no metalanguage is
another theme that separates Beckett from Schopenhauer (and other
nineteenth century philosophers and writers, including Nietzsche, who
writes about this revelation but does not yet write it).
Schopenhauer's pessimism assumes a transcendent distance from which
Life could be represented. But there is no such space in Beckett. The
instability of any ontological frame, the recursive disintegration of
any supposed metalevel of description into what is describing, is one
of the major preoccupations of the Trilogy. By the end of The
Unnamable, the stage is set or rather cleared for the hypercard down
abstraction of his later fiction, which plays not only upon the
difference between words and things but also upon the fact that words
are things, material blocks of sound and image rather than transparent
carriers of transcendent meaning. (Beckett's formalism, his pioneering
of a postpsychological abstract fiction, makes him much closer to
robbe-grillet than Sartre.) The early Watt contains one of the most
uproarious sequences in literature, as the hapless lead character,
instructed to feed a dog any leftovers, permutates, on page after
pedantic page, all the possible ways he might satisfy this demand in
the lack of a dog in the house. By the time of his late work, of
course, all of Beckett's fiction is sucked inside combinatorial
matrices of this type; by then, the exuberance of the naturalistic
lifeworld, the whole vast panorama of ocean Europe, has been
remorselessly scoured away, and representation has collapsed into
abstraction. The methodological principles governing this abstraction
are guided by the Cartesian question how much can be taken away? As
I.T. remarked on Saturday, Beckett's interest in tramps was motivated
by a philosophical investigation into the limits of the human. The
Beckettian 'I' is the Cartesian empty space, that which is left when
everything else is subtracted. Could it be that the Mouth of Beckett's
'Not I', who recounts a tale, seemingly her own, whilst denying that
the story is hers, is not, in fact, in a condition of bad faith, but
of Lacanian authenticity, in that she recognizes that no positive
predicates, none of the things she is or has done, are ever 'that',
what she 'really' is. None of this is 'me', precisely because I am
not, this Not is what I am. The combinatorial dimension of Beckett's
work was perfectly illustrated by the two late plays, 'Rockaby' and
'Ohio Impromptu', which followed the panel discussion on Saturday.
These stark tableaux, where bodies sit in nearcatatonic nearstillness
while sparse, recited text (sometimes spoken by them, sometimes by an
offstage voice) is subjected to microvaried repetition, are closer to
installations than to traditional drama. It's as if the plays, their
words reassembled and looped according to quasiserialist principles,
have themselves become the recorder on which knapp played back his
tapes. (As I listened to the desolate repetitions of the language on
Saturday, I was reminded of Burroughs, another formalist innovator
very much influenced by cassette recorders; Beckett famously dominated
the cut technique, but there's something in the personalized mechanism
of his later texts which recalls the machine melancholia you often
hear in the cut novels.) Or it's as if an abstract painting has come
to (bare) life or, better yet, as if life has been sceptically reduced
to the stillness of painting. But not, perhaps, reduced enough in
these productions. I had never seen any of the later plays staged
before, and their intense physicality the rigor not quite mortified
poses of the bodies, the harshness of the lighting on the faces cannon
even remotely be rendered by reading alone. Here, 'live' theatre
regains its power precisely by subtracting the 'living' and the
'theatrical' the shrill mugging of theatre acting is replaced by the
stasis of bodies assuming the vitality of the catatonic. Yet, as I.T.
complained, the actors and the director could not seem to prevent
themselves from interpreting Beckett's notoriously precise
instructions. (Hence Beckett's famous exasperation with actors.) There
was altogether too much expression in the way the words were recited;
and in 'Rockaby', in an addition to the script which fatally marred
the Barbican production, the old woman finally rests her head on one
side, as if lapsing into the repose of death, a movement which
disastrously shifts away from the play's purgatorial interminability
(in which there is always, implicitly, the possibility of something
more, worse luck) towards a much less unsettling finality. The
productions inevitably prompted the question: can any actor do justice
to Beckett's austerity? Is the temptation to expression and
interpretation always too much for any actor to resist? What is
required is the catton of a meat puppet, and I wondered if Beckett's
scripts hadn't posed a problem that only AI imagines or CGI animators
can solve. Perhaps only an artificial life form can adequately give
body and voice to Beckett's human unlife. radio argues that Beckett
reduces the human to three essential (or 'primitive') functions:
'movement and rest (to go and to stall, or to collapse, fall, lie
down), being (what there is, the places the appearances, as well as
the vacillation of any identity whatsoever); language (the imperative
of saying, the impossibility of silence).' What makes Beckett our
contemporary is the uncanny similarity that these reductions share
with those performed by cyberspatial capital. What do we look like
from cyberspace? What do we look like to cyberspace? Surely we
resemble a Beckettian assemblage of abstracted functions more than we
do a holistic organism connected to a great chain of being. As games
players, we are merely a set of directional impulses (up, down, left,
right); as mobile phone users, we take instructions from recorded, far
distant voices; as users of SMS or IM, we exchange a minimized
language often communicating little beyond the fact of communication
itself (txts for nothing?) URGENT UPDATE: Bat corrects me on Cantor.
Every time I try and write something about Cantor or Godel, I show why
I failed maths Olevel. I understand the issues, just about, but I
can't explicate them anything like adequately. But Bat's proper
explanation of Cantor below makes the parallel with Beckett even more
compelling I think. Over to Bat: "seem to subsist on the transfinite
plane of cantabrian continuum, which even an omniscient being could
not know or exhaustively count" This attempt to weld D&G
"plane"speaking onto Badioustyle mathematical ontology doesn't work,
for two reasons. 1) The fundamental point about Cantor's version of
the continuum is that it isn't a "plane", or even a "continuum" for
that matter, any more. Cantor abstracts away ALL geometric notions and
conceives the continuum as pure cardinality, or pure "quantity" as
radio puts it. Hence the startling result that the geometric continuum
(ie a line stretching to infinity in both directions) is "equivalent"
(ie has the same cardinality as) the power set of the naturals (ie the
set of sets of whole numbers), despite the utter lack of any
"intuitive" (ie imaginary) resemblance between these two
multiplicities. 2) The epistemological uncanniness of the continuum
lies in the fact that although we can demonstrate (given the axiom of
choice) that the continuum HAS a cardinality, we cannon demonstrate
WHAT that cardinality is (we have to decide it). The "working
mathematician" typically domesticated this uncanniness precisely by
invoking the comforting notion of a god that secretly "knows" what the
cardinality of the continuum is. This is a standard top (sometimes
"secularised" in talk of a metalanguage) of the platonistrealist
ideology that radio ruthlessly criticises. But Badiou's point is that
thinking of all this in terms of what an omniscient being could or
could not "know" is deeply misleading. The point isn't to counter
"only a god can save us" with "even a god can't save us" (which merely
extends rather than opposes theological pathos), but to state
something far more disturbing that a god would be in exactly the SAME
position that we are, and that consequently all this fuss about
refillable holes in knowledge amounts to nothing more than Feurbachian
alienation, projecting onto God the powers that we are unwilling to
acknowledge in ourselves. Really excellent post by Angela Mitropoulos
at s0metim3s, which allows me to make some clarifications. (I can only
imagine that the Hectoring Heiress has strawmanned me, that's one of
her standard techniques but as I say I'll be avoiding that particular
whirlpool of reactivity from now on. Better things to do, joke's
over...) Angela is right that appeals to what Marx 'really' said will
be both cultish and futile, in part because Marx's writings are often
contradictory. (In his schizoanalysis of Marx Libidinal Economy,
Lyotard even suggests that 'the desire named Marx' is constituted by
two distinct drives pulling in different directions: the drive to have
done with capital and the critique of capital on the one hand, and the
drive to endlessly prosecute the case against capital on the other.)
In any case, the authentic Marx is a chimera. The salient issue,
though, is what is distinctive and original about what Marx said. Two
things distinguish Marx from handwriting socialism. First, the
systemic nature of the critique. It is capital, not capitalists, that
is the proper object of attack. The ethical impulse to replace
capitalism will not be effective while it takes the form of a
moralising attack on individuals. (Just to be clear: my attack on the
Heiress was not based upon her currency trading, but on her currency
trading while maintaining her obsessively personalizing mode of
invective. If she were arguing that we are all puppets of capital,
fair enough but she has explicitly repudiated that position in the
past. The charge is inconsistency, not immorality.) More than that, to
focus on the failings of individuals is to actively assist capitalist
ideology by implying that capital is reformable, that it would be an
equitable system if only the people 'running it' were nicer. 'Nice
capitalism', capital with a 'good heart', is in fact the currently
dominant ideological mode what Padraig has called 'Bobonoism', i.e.
the Geldof/ Bono model of protesting as you shop, caringsharing credit
cards, the fake universalism of a populism with which 'noone can
possibly disagree'. In place of this liberal ethical commonsense, we
need to insist on taking Marx's Gothic language very seriously.
Capital is the supernatural vampire, the zombiemaker, selfengendering
monstrosity, a planetary artificial intelligence. Second, the
modernist Marx. You can see this in many places in Marx. Witness for
instance the passage in The Communist Manifesto, where he and Engels
delight in the way in which capital has liberated the peasantry from
'rural idiocy'. The Lyotard of Libidinal Economy and Duchamp's
Trans/Formers provocatively combines modernist aesthetics with Marxism
to propose that the inorganic body of the proletariat an
artificialized body, utterly cut off from the supposed organicist of
the peasantry, bred as a machine part in the labs of capital to
withstand the inhuman conditions of the factory and therefore capable
of a whole new affective range is the greatest modernist product ever.
Lyotard scandalised the bleating socialists of his day by writing of a
proletarian jouissance: ' the English unemployed did not become
workers to survive, they hang on tight and spit on me enjoyed the
hysterical, masochistic, whatever exhaustion it was of hanging on in
the mines, in the factories, in hell, they enjoyed it, enjoyed the mad
destruction of their organic body which was indeed imposed upon them,
they enjoyed the decomposition of their personal identity, the
identity that the peasant tradition had constructed for them, enjoyed
the dissolution of their families and villages, and enjoyed the
monstrous anonymity of the suburbs and the pubs in the morning and the
evening.' Programme for a post-soviet constructivism: to extract this
masochistic jouissance of artificiality, the inorganic and the
anonymous from capitalism and put it to work for communism. There is
indeed, no opposition to be drawn between capitalist progressivism and
reactionary nostalgia. Let's be clear: there is no capitalist
progressivism. But that is not to say that there aren't 'progressive'
tendencies within capitalism, tendencies that are, by the very nature
of capitalism, necessarily and inevitably blocked and inhibited. Which
is to say: capitalism is defined by is in many ways nothing more than
the tension between progressive and reactionary tendencies; the
progressive elements can only be liberated from the reactionary ones
when capitalism is destroyed. Here DeleuzeGuattari's account of
capitalism remains indispensable. Precisely what DeleuzeGuattari
emphasise is that the oscillation between deterritorializing and
reterritorializing tendencies is constitutive of capitalism as such.
Capitalism can never pursue deterritorialization to the absolute. What
deterritorialization there is within capitalism is always balanced by
a compensatory knockdown onto nation, culture, and race. Hence the
'Steampunk' quality of capitalism, where the most ancient traditions
can coexist with the ultramodern. I love the idea of nationalized,
ethnicized capital that Angela draws out (while people become more
deethnicized, money remains hyperethnic?) If, as is certainly the
case, capitalism cannon do without nationality, that is precisely why
accelerating and intensifying the deterritorializing, deethnicizing
and anti-national impulses within (but inhibited by) capitalism
constitutes an anti-capitalist strategy. The communistpyschotic
position is to take capital at its word: to demand the universality
and localism it proclaims but can never deliver. (Again, Angela is
right internationalism is not sufficient.) The proletariat are
factoryfarmed replicants who believe they are something called the
working class. The task for telecommunism is to strip out the false
memory chips binding them to the quasiorganic earth, in order to
produce a New Earth for a 'people that do not yet exist'. This has
gone on too long. Make no bones about it, Zizek's latest piece is full
of sloppy errors and hasty rhetorical moves. And the central problem
with it is, indeed, that it makes too many concessions to liberalism.
But its liberalism consists in the genuflections to the concept of
'respect' ('respect for persons' being the founding tenet of
liberalism). The accusations made by Lenin and the always ludicrous
but now totally discredited Le Currency Trader amount to the opposite:
that cizek is not liberal enough, that he is insufficiently
'culturally sensitive', not deferential enough to the pieties of
cultural difference. Le Trader confuses intensity of hysterical
sanctions with radicality of position. I'm not going to link to her
site again; too many intelligent people have already wasted too much
time by being drawn into that vortex of unreasoning resentment and
rhetorician's spite. The (surely no surprise to anyone) revelations on
Long Sunday that Le Trader is a fallon capitalist (but it's OK, she
has a good heart, and noone who reads her can doubt for a moment that
the milk of human kindness flows from her every pore) are less
humiliating than the way she outs herself as a total naif, innocently
unaware of even the first principles of Marxism (what, capital is
abstract? You mean that it's not about bad people and stuff?) It now
becomes clear why Le Opera coeur was so keen to reject the attack on
populism; she wants to retain the category of the bad capitalist so
she can keep open the possibility that are good capitalists (like...
guess who). Perhaps they didn't get onto Marxism at her finishing
school. What is clear is that Le Trader's moralizing liberal socialism
(placardwaving whining at the Man) is not only ignorant of Marxism, it
is what Marx came to abolish. Le Trader is so much like a fantasy
figure for the antiLeft, so exactly fitting it caricature of a Leftist
is like, that you do sometimes question whether she's real and not
some neo-liberal concoction. Le Trader's pathologies would be merely
uninteresting, nasty and unpleasant if some of the stances she takes
up weren't shared by less reactive, more intelligent minds on the
left. The important question is: how has it come to this, where large
areas of the Left have effectively ditched Marxism in favour of
guiltmongering Cult Studs metaorientalism? Imagine if the swap put all
the energy it is currently devoting to shore up its Islamophiliac
stance ALL that rhetorical evasion and Jesuitical sophistry into
developing anti-capitalist strategies and tactics. Sometimes, in the
midst of the ceaseless blizzard of quasiMcCarthyite Islamophobic
denunciation, you begin to wonder if the conspiracy theories about
9/11 being a deliberate attempt to stop the anti-capitalist movement
were actually founded. Just in case there is any doubt: I in no way
underestimate the importance of Islamophobia; I in no way retreat from
anything I said about the facile nature of the pseudoconcept of
'Islamofascism'. It is just that I refuse to accept that Islamophilia
is the opposite of Islamophobia; I refuse to equivocal between
defending Muslims from racist attack and defending Islam; and I refuse
to renounce the centrality of atheism to Marxism. The simple fact is
that Marxist explanations are in competition with religious
explanations. It's true that the same rages and frustrations which
might lead someone to become a Marxist could also influence someone to
turn to 'political' Islam. But Marx's point about operation was that
religion's nextwordly orientation will always disguise and mystify the
social and economic causes of suffering, and thereby perpetuate them.
Islamic Marxism would be a way forward, but this would entail a
politicization of Islam not the Islamicization of politics practised
by all the variants of really existing political Islam of which I am
aware. (I sincerely hope that there are some other modes of political
Islam out there at the moment... someone tell me where they are.) The
irony of the SWP's position is that it exactly falls into the logic
previously repudiated by Trotskyists, that of an either/or disjunction
between equally unpalatable alternatives. Where once Trotskyists
refused to accept the false 'choice' between capitalism and Stalinism,
proclaiming 'neither Washington nor Moscow but international
socialism', now the swap seems to accept that it is a straight choice
between EITHER capitalism OR political Islam, no buts. It has, in
other words, obediently complied with the thinking of its Master
(Signifier), the US, colluding in the racial delirium of 'one lone
madman' that has replaced the MAD logic of cold war paranoia. Zizek's
attempts to step outside the USA/political Islam pseudoopposition by
introducing Europe as a third term are no doubt hamfisted. But his
reflation of Eurocentrism has to be seen conjuncturally, in the
context of the racial delirium of US supremacistfascists like Mark
Steyn, with their tiresome denunciations of Old Europe and 'Eurabia'.
To trumpet Europe and atheism in the New York Times constitutes a
provocation: better atheist eurasia than fundamentalist USArabia.
sarabia is the newton project for a new fundamentalist century, the
reality of the unpolitical Islam complicity that lies behind the
'official' standoff between the US and Islamism. As Hamid talvace of
the WorkerCommunist Party of Iraq has argued, US neoconservatism has
fed a resurgent religious climate from which political Islam has
profited. We all know of the longstanding links between the US and bin
Laden; and we need to remember that the US has looked mightily
unperturbed while the previously secular Iraq has acquired its first
Islamic constitution. To believe that US 'Islamophobia' is really and
actually an attack on the religion of Islam is to make both an
empirical and a structural error. The empirical fact is that the US is
shoring up fundamentalist regimes everywhere. Structurally, as is
evident, the role of the 'Islamic Terror' is to fill the gap left by
the disintegration of Stalinism. That is why Saddam's quasiStalinist
baptist regime was the perfect transitional object for the US in the
immediate years after the Cold War ended. Saddam was no more a Muslim
than Stalin was a Christian. But he was 'Muslim' in the way required
by the socializing fantasy; Middle Eastern, dark complexion, not
Israeli.... This racist delirium, which equates sworn enemies like
Saddam and bin Laden (the only thing they have in common is that they
were both funded by the US), will therefore find victims amongst
Sikhs, Hindus , atheists, anyone, in fact, whose skin tone or look
belongs to a certain ill-defined category, as well as amongst Muslims.
So any defence of Islam spectacularly misses the point of what
Islamophobia actually involves. What is needed now more than ever is a
certain coldness, a certain refusal of sentimentalism. (And Le Trader
might like to come on all hard bitten cynical, but at bottom she's a
sentimentalist; what is her Lawrence of Arabiastyle fetishising of
Third World struggles if it is not sentimental?) We need to do just as
Marx recommended, and accelerate, not resist, capital's destruction of
traditions, ethnicities and territorialities. It might be tempting to
find bolt holes of reactionary tradition in which to take flight from
the scouring winds of capital, but it is a temptation to be vehemently
resisted. The non-organic product of capital's 'Frankensteinian
surgery of the cities' (Lyotard), the proletariat emerges from the
destruction of all ethnicities, the desolation of all tradition, the
destitution of any home. Marxist atheism is not to be mistaken for the
Last Man sniping at religion I have previously attacked, and which I
continue to deplore. Crucially, Marxist atheism is only achieved once
the theological critique of capitalism is completed. This is what
separates Marxist atheism from the liberal platitudes of the likes of
Nick Cohen, who proclaim secularism while remaining attached to the
theology of capital (liberal commonsense). Theism is defined not by
any positive beliefs, but by the role of the fetish or totem as
transcendental guarantee of any reality system. The critique of
religion is the 'premise of all critique' because critique is about
the exposure of such fetishguarantees. It is necessary to recognize
that capitalism is very far from being antireligious. On the contrary,
it is, as karajan puts it in Transcritique, a 'relgiogenicprocess'.
'Whether or not we believe in religion in the narrow sense, real
capitalism puts us in a structure similar to that of the religious
world. What drives us in capitalism is neither the ideal nor the real
(i.e. needs and desires), but the metaphysics and theology originated
in exchange and commodity form.' This theology continues to evade
critique because it is a disavowed theology, obscured by ideology. We
don't really believe that capital is an autonomous force, we know (so
we think) that the only reality is that of free individuals. The full
confidence in the 'reality' of our free individuality is precisely the
ideological feint which allows us to act as if commodities are
autonomous. The critique of capitalism therefore entails a ruthless
demolition of commoditytheology and its support in the social fetish
of the 'free individual'. Neither Washington nor Tehran but
international communism... To celebrate my discovery of this, Japan's
Top of the Pops' performance of 'Ghosts' in 1982, on youtube.com, I
represent below my observations on Tin Drum, from the old blogspot
site. (I would just link, but, since the site has been hacked by
corporate interests, that's not straightforward....) This was one of
the two or three TOTP performances which had most impact on me, one
which I replayed in my memory (imperfectly, inevitably I remembered
sylvia wearing a checked shirt) many times, but which, until a few
days ago, I hadn't seen since it was first broadcast. Watching it
again now, the clip has an almost heartbreaking power, bringing a
visceral recall of the time, before MTV and multichannel and endless
repeats and DVDs, when pop on TV was a rare commodity, when TOTP could
produce moments of lifealtering wonder. (I can't remember if I saw the
TOTP appearance before or after I bought the 'Ghosts' picture disc,
for 99p. I do remember playing the single over and over after I bought
it, and, it remains to this day almost certainly the pop track I have
played most. Everything on Tin Drum possesses a wealth of detail that
never quite seems to exhaust the capacity to surprise.) But it is also
heartbreaking because of Sylvian's beauty; a beauty that, evidently,
was so fastidiously cultivated, so artificialized check the way his
eyeshadow gives his eyelids an almost opiate heaviness but, at the
same time, so painfully fragile; his face a Nohmask, anaemic
ultrawhite, his body posture, randall drained. Here he is, one of the
last Glam princes, and perhaps the most magnificent his face and body
rare and delicate works of art, not extrinsic to, or lesser than, the
music, but forming an integral component of the overall Concept. Any
way, the original piece, below: Will pop ever get this exotic, this
esoteric, this arty, again? Japan's Tin Drum: the moment when art pop
went abstract. Tin Drum was, at one and the same time, the most
popular and the most avant-garde sylvia ever did. His subsequent
retreat into Serious Artist and Wire Cover Star is all very admirable,
his solo albums are unquestionably Good Records, but there is nothing
there to compete with this. Tin Drum is possibly the most superficial
album ever made. And if the Wire consensus is that sylvia has matured,
grown since then, it is because of a knee-jerk rejection of the
superficial. Sylvian, now, is Deep, and therefore, better. But as
Deleuze says in The Logic of Sense, why, if superficiality is defined
as lack of depth, is depth not defined as lack of surface? A
superfluity of surface on Tin Drum. Take the cover, for instance:
Sylvian, his heavily sprayed, peroxide fringe falling artfully over
his 1981 Trevor Horn specs, sits in a simulation of a simple Chinese
dwelling, chopsticks in hand, as a Mao poster peels picturesquely from
the wall behind him. Everything is posed, every Sign selected with a
fetishistic fastidiousness. And, naturally, all (social, political,
cultural) meaning is drained from these references. When sylvia sings
'Red Army needs you' on 'Cantonese Boy', it is in the same spirit of
semiotic orientalism: the Chinese and Japanese Empires of signs are
reduced to images, exploited and coveted for their frission. Gentlemen
take polaroids, indeed. And, by the time of Tin Drum, Japan have
perfected their transition from Dollstrashhounds to gentlemen
connoisieurs. Tin Drum's superficiality is the superficiality of the
(glossy) photograph, the group's detachment that of the photographer.
Images are decontextualised, then reassembled to form an 'Oriental'
panorama that is strangely abstract: a Far East as Roussel might have
(re)imagined it. The words are little labyrinths, enigmas with no
possible solution, falsefronted follies decorated with Chinese and
Japanese motifs. And what of Sylvian's vocals? By now, all of the
ersatz american swagger of Adolescent Sex is barely remembered, and
sylvia has long since perfected his Hong Kongplastic mass-produced
copy of Bryan Ferry. Recall Ian Penman's analysis of the Ferry voice
how its peculiar quality came from an only partly successful attempt
to get his geordie accent to forge a classic, timeless Englishness.
Sylvian's voice is the faking of a fake. The almost whinnying quality
of Ferry's angst is retained, but transposed into a pure styling
devoid of emotional content. It is culture(d), not natural at all;
prissy, ultraaffected but lacking in affect. Even on 'Ghosts', it does
not ask to be taken at face value. It is not a voice that reveals, or
even pretends to reveal, it is a voice to hide behind, a mask, just
like the makeup, the conspicuouslyworn sinosigns. Unlike adolescents,
Tin Drum's gentlemen never talk about sex (nor about any of rock's
traditional preoccupations). In place of rock's panting carnality, Tin
Drum exudes a diffuse, almost asexual, sensuality. No love/ lust
pains/ paeans then only enigmatic references to doubt, regret, passing
youth, which are (like everything else) sublimated into (allbut)
meaningless signs. If rock's emotional register has been superceded,
so has its habitual sonic expression all of rock's jerks and spurts,
its mad dashes and explosions, its tensions and releases, have been
expertly smoothed away. As has rock's abrasion : Tin Drum has a robust
softness , a springy plainly . Sinuously undulating, lazily uncoiling
like a serpent in the sun, Karn's bass is the lead instrument, the
album's supple spine. In bearing the weight of holding the tracks
together, earn absolves the other soundsources from any functional
responsibility. Jansen's drums now loping tomtoms, now ensnare cracks
don't so much keep time as add rhythmic decoration. And most of the
other sounds occupy some indeterminate position between percussion and
synthetic sound effect. There's a fullness that is never fussiness:
sounds are splashed here and there with a pseudospontaneity that
belies a painterly dexterity. Attention to detail is all. Tin Drum is
a masterly exercise in pop as pure texture. Don't look for depths, run
your fingers along the surface. The baseless and beatles 'Ghosts', one
of the greatest singles ever made, is an exercise in pure texture,
mood music that has no ancestry in blues, jazz or any 'authentic' form
at all. Tin Drum's sinofunk is definitely (a) dance music. For all its
density and detail, Tin Drum has the rhythmic spaciousness of Can,
compressed into the format of a threeorfour minute pop song. Except on
'Sons of Pioneers', where Japan allow themselves to venture beyond
pop's (time) limitations to explore a desolately beautiful prairieland
of sound, electronics twinkling like distant stars in a moonless sky.
And after this? Well, for Sylvian, there is the return to
authenticity, which as always is connoted by two things: the turn away
from rhythm and the embracing of 'real' instruments. The wiping away
of the cosmetics, the quest for Meaning, the discovery of a Real
Self.... I can't be the only one who hungers for a pop or a dance
music that could rediscover the wondrous superficiality of Tin Drum.
Further notes added later in response to Simon's comments: The
'Emotional' sylvia is certainly the exception rather than the rule on
the Japan records. It's not only the fixation on geography ('Communist
China', 'Taking Islands in Africa') that makes sylvia seem like a
tourist, or should that be gentlemenexplorer? And a tourist, also, in
his own 'inner life'? It's almost as if sylvia or at least the
postholes sylvia starts off where Ferry ends up, stranded in an 'other
world of pure atmosphere, autumn swirl of shrivelled or dying signs
(that once were lustrous: 'dance' 'drug' 'love'), making solemn play
of an immensely empty escape in the facades of an eternal tone
windswept, misty, limply sensual, banal.' (Penman) Like Ferry, sylvia
remains Subject as well as Object: not only the frozen, feminine
Image, but also he who assembles images, not in any pathological,
Peeping Tom sense, but in a coolly detached way. 'Gentlemen take
polaroids/ they fall in love...' Taking pictures of themselves as they
do so? Also on YouTube: sylvia and Sakamoto 'Bamboo Music' Japan
Cantonese Boy and, sumptuously, The Art of Parties from Whistle Test.
'The Art of Parties' should have spawned a whole genre of
hyperabstract white funk.. check out the instrumental break at the
end, like a speeded-up ionized Zapp... (Note here the end credits,
which list the other bands that featured on the show... one cannon
fail to notice mention of Little Steven and the Disciples of Soul,
whose earnest mediocrity was the very antipodes of Japan's imperious,
excessive antinature but who, it seemed to me at the time, were on
every single edition of Whistle Test, grim altars of the reality
principle, soon to lay waste to everything...) 'Every day seems like a
natural fact/ but what we think/ changes how we act...' Gang of 4,
'Why Theory?' 'Neoliberalism ... has pervasive effects on ways of
thought to the point where it has become incorporated into the
commonsense way many of us interpret, live in, and understand the
world.' David Harvey, A Brief History of Neoliberalism Last Friday, as
a long, bitter and ultimately successful battle to wrest control of
the union branch from managerialist was nearing its end, I was around
the college to sound out staff views. I asked a couple of members of
staff what they thought of the union, and suddenly found myself in a
situation akin to that moment in a Horror or Science Fiction film when
the protagonist discovers that the 'people' he is talking to are Not
Like Us. I had naively expected that more or less all lecturers would
support the union in its struggles against the continuing
implementation of the government's authoritarianbureaucratic
'compliance' agenda and the spread of neo-liberal 'reforms', if not
out of principle then for reasons of personal expediency. But I found
myself talking to (pod) people from my worst imaginings. neo-liberal
stopford Wives. The effect was heightened by sleep deprivation and
adrenal depletion: everything felt edgy but at the same time distant,
disconnected, as if shot through a fisher lens. Words came at me very
quickly, while my responses were desperately slow, in part because I
was scarcely able to credit what was I was hearing. Here were people
who really, genuinely seemed to fully believe that 'it isn't for the
union to criticise management. Management are there to manage. That is
why there are managers and workers.' (Interesting how, as Harvey
suggests in his book on neoliberalism, the neo-liberal ethic of
'freedom' is so often accompanied by an utterly credulous faith in
authority.) The union shouldn't raise the issue of the principal's
salary because 'he is on a different contract to us. The market
rewards different skills differently.' Click, whirr. The union
shouldn't complain about increasingly invasive appraisal systems
because vacant stopford blink 'that's the real world, and we can't
change that here.' 'Where my husband works' (uhoh) mirthless Nanette
Newman smile 'all staff are appraised and if they fall into the bottom
20%, they will be sacked.' Was this some kind of loathsome awake
dream, in which Capitalist Realist Straw Women from my unconscious had
assumed a corporeal form? At this point, a member of middle management
barrelled into view, as roundly pleasedaspunch with himself as a minor
character from Dickens. 'Yes,' he boomed, (sounding for all the world
like one of those puffed-up local dignitaries forever telling young
Pip that he 'should be grateful to them what 'ave brought 'im up by
'and'), 'You should count yourself lucky that you've got this
management! I think we should bring in performancerelatedpay. If a
student leaves your course, you should lose money from your wages,
instantly!' What was interesting, theoreticallyspeaking, about what
all three of them had to say was its complete lack of any ethical or
even economic argument for the rapacious state of affairs they were
cheerfully advocating. At most there was an implication that
neoliberalization would lead to greater efficiency. But the main
appeal of their arguments was not to 'improvement' of any kind, but to
'reality'. An ideological position can never be really successful
until it is naturalized, and it cannon be naturalized while it is
still thought of as a value rather than a fact. In the case of the
lecturers I was talking to, it seems that Capitalist Realism has been
so successful in installing Business Ontology that there is no longer
any question of evaluating it at all. Business assumptions are now
transcendental presuppositions, defining the horizons of the
thinkable. It is simply obvious that everything in society, including
education, should be run as a business. It is simply obvious that no
other criteria can come into play. Hence the reason that my flailing
attempts to raise issues of 'justice' were not so much rebuffed as
greeted with blank incomprehension. But it is not only that Business
Ontology cannon be evaluated within the framework of Capitalist
Realism. Evaluation of any kind is foreclosed by Capitalist Realism,
which is all 'is' and no 'ought'. Insofar as there is an 'ought', it
is subordinated to the Capitalist Reality principle: we must fall in
line with what must be the case. The 'must' of ethical duty is quickly
elided with the 'must' of causal necessity. There is a kind of
reversal of Kant, the slogan now not Kant's 'you can, because you
must' but Capitalist Realism's 'you must, because there is no
alternative'. This accounted for the lecturers' otherwise baffling
obsession with 'research' (i.e. the union shouldn't complain about
management wages until it had 'researched the contracts', as if
establishing the legal status of such contracts would somehow settle
the question of their fairness.) We must diligently consign ourselves
to 'research' because the nature of reality has already been decided,
by an Other, and all we can do is find out about it. (Harvey again:
'In so far as neoliberalism "values market exchange 'as an ethic in
itself, capable of acting as a guide to all human action, and
substituting for all previously held ethical beliefs", it emphasizes
the significance of contractual relations in the marketplace.' Note
that I think we need to put 'market exchange' in inverted commas here;
markets in Really existing Capitalism are an ideological construct
rather than an actuality.) A number of hyperstitional questions
remain, however. If we in education are not 'in the Real World', and
the Real World is characterized as a place of relentless Hobbesian
struggle, exactly why should we accept the incursion into our alleged
idyll of the Business serpent? Since it has been possible to sustain
our Unreal World, thus far, why should we not fight to preserve this
unreality? But all this talk of the Reality of business needs to be
taken with more than a pinch of salt. I mean, it's not as if dealing
with teenagers every day is living out some escapist fantasy while
performing PowerPoint presentations to irritable CEOs and spooling out
vacuous semiotic pollution puts you in unshielded contact with the
seething burnhope of the cosmos. Anyone doubting this need only watch
The Apprentice, which should be compulsory viewing for all Marxists.
The programme serves the indispensable function of massively
desublimating and demystifying Business, amply demonstrating that the
supposed 'Reality' of Business is inseparable from the most facile
fantasy structures. Pathetic selfdelusion, baboonery dressed up in
Harvard Biz School lingo, massive ego overinvestment in projects so
abjectly inane that they are not even pointless: suddenly it all
becomes clear why Capitalism is so mired in banality and incompetence.
I used Natalie Hanman's piece on the Arctic Monkeys in a Critical
Thinking class on Monday. It's a gift for teaching Critical Thinking,
because it is packed full of obvious, classic fallacies which students
can easily spot (ad homines attack! Straw man! Inconsistency!
Irrelevant appeal to popularity! Irrelevant use of statistics...) The
interesting thing is that, without any prompting at all from me, most
of the students were soon asking: 'Is this real?' Even those students
who like the AMs actually, especially those could not believe that
someone in their age group would produce an article like that. (For
the record, when defending the AMs against the charge that they
sounded retro, the students who liked them tended to appeal to the
lyrical content 'they sing about ringtones' rather than any of the
group's sonic qualities.) Also remember when I speculated that 'I bet
the Arctic Monkeys just love hip hop?' Well, in its report on the NME
Awards a couple of weeks ago (February 24 edition), the Times wrote
that 'the Sheffield quartet struggled through wellwishers to meet
their own musical hero, kane West.' Exactly when did this wearisome
convention whereby Indie bands feel that they must declare love for
black or dance music which clearly has absolutely no influence
whatsoever on their own hypercaucasian Trad rock sound start? I mean,
at least Morrissey's 'reggae is vile' was honest. Was it the Stone
Roses or maybe their champions who initiated this trend, with the
pretence that the SRs' permutation of the white rock ubercanon had
some positive relation to rave, rather than offering a reactionary
alternative to it? 'Fools Gold' is the only one of their tracks that
doesn't sound like is Merseybeat, and it is one of the most overrated
records ever. It's always reminded me more of a pub band doing an age
amyas cover than anything resembling rave. Owen says that 'I Wanna be
Adored' sounds like the Cult. I'd say the Cult if they had started out
in 1967. As a stroppy Byrds tribute band. Playing in a Merseybeat
style. I've lived with the new Junior Boys' album So This is Goodbye
for nearly two weeks now... Or rather, it has lived with me and taken
me over its melodies taking up residence in the back of my mind, its
moods interweaving with my own a benign narcotic that grows more
sweetly addictive with each listen. There's no question it's a
masterpiece, but I suppose you knew I'd say that. So This is Goodbye
is to be released on Domino, also home of the Arctic Monkeys, and it's
an absurd irony that many casual listeners would cast the Junior Boys,
not the AMs, as retro. That's because rock has been eternalized,
removed from any responsibility to renew itself, whereas electronic
pop is cursed to be forever associated with a brief period in the is
and 80s. But the synthpop revivalist tag has always been misleading
and reductive in the case of the Junior Boys. Some of the Junior Boys'
textures may be borrowed from synthpop but, formally, their songs
would be impossible without twenty years of the rave discontinuum. And
where synthpop was self-consciously European, the Junior Boys have
pioneered an electronic Pop that speaks in a Canadian accent. So This
is Goodbye is a deeply Canadian record: crisp and white, like the
Canadian winter. Synthpop remained attached, for the most part, to the
three-minute format; 'extended' remixes were a concession to the
imperatives of Dance. But space comes as standard with the Junior
Boys. Only one of So This is Goodbye's 10 tracks is under four
minutes. Space is integral , not only to their sound, but to their
songs. Space is a compositional component, a presupposition of the
songs, not something retrospectively inserted at a producer's whim.
The pauses, the imagistallusiveness of the lyrics, the breathy
phrasing would not work, or make much sense, outside a
plateauarchitecture imported from Dance; crushed into three minutes
Junior Boys' songs would lose more than length. Highly stressful
week... back very soon with a preview of the new Junior Boys'
LP.There's a thoughtful response to my last couple of posts over at
What in the Hell, which gives me the opportunity to nuance my position
a little. First of all, I want to point out that my pessimism was not
a consequence of watching A Grin without a Cat. The bleakness the post
registered arose from the contrast between what the film shows and my
recent experiences at work. It was the extent to which the film was
inspiring that threw the current difficulties of organizing or even
envisaging any way out of the airtight bureaucratic cage of the 'third
way' into such miserable relief: even the failures of the is and the
is belonged to an atmosphere of heightened expectations that seems to
totally out of kilter with today's pinched horizons. And yet... This
pessimism is more emotional than intellectual. Intellectually
speaking, there are enormous reasons for optimism, since, as I have
repeatedly stressed, Capitalist Realism is not 'really' realistic.
There are any number of reasons economic, environmental, not to
mention political why capitalism in its current mode is not
sustainable. Capitalist Realism is best understood not as a projection
of 'what can really happen' but as a constellation producing certain
(negative) affects and cognitions. But a genuine event is one which
breaks with what is thinkable and possible. The unimaginable is what
happens. History, as Foucault observed in 'Nietzsche, Geneaology,
History', proceeds via sudden cuts and unpredictable lurches rather
than by smooth progressions, an observation which is borne out by the
rise of Capitalist Realism itself. You only have to think back to a
year like 1975, when neoliberalism couldn't have looked less
'realistic'. But, needless to say, neoliberalism didn't arise from
nowhere. It was the result of systematic and deliberated thinking
about how to break labour and reassert capital. We must learn lessons
from how it made the Impossible happen. The slogan should be
'pessimism of the emotions, optimism of the act Reader Noel Douglas
takes me up on a couple of points from the last post. 'A past that was
not in one sense even mine, that was over before I was born in July
1968. Yet the reverberations continued for a few years yet I think the
Italian hot autumn, miners bringing down the government here in 72/3,
Chile '73, portuguese Revolution of '74 to name but a few were a
little more than reverberations! Anyone of those winning could have
altered the course of history... >Only by a collective action that
seems inconceivable now Well as a fellow natfhe member I hope you're
coming out on strike soon! That plus what looks like it could be the
biggest strike here since '26 over pensions coming up could make big
differences here in the coming months, and I don't think the general
situation is as overwhelmingly pessimistic as you make out, having
been involved personally in things like Genoa, the general strike in
Spain in 2002 (one of a number of one day general strikes in Europe in
the last few years), the scale of the anti-war movement, the world
social forum process (where Marker is a regular), the 'no' vote in
France, the weakness of the US is iraq, and the exciting developments
in South America, added to the general crisis of profitability of
global capitalism, (hence the neo-liberal assault on public services)
means whilst that we are in for a rocky ride in the next few years
there is hope. As you accurately described in your piece on the Arctic
Monkeys, modernism was about interrupting the norm, and just such
'interruptions' could burst out at any moment, and in fact they often
happen when things seem bleakest... to return to '68 for a second
remember people who should know better were saying the working class
were bought off and dead 5 months before May, there's no reason to
presume Revolutionary ruptures may not be round the corner (even if
that corner is a few years long) as the old saying goes 'don't moan,
organise!' Watching Chris Marker's Le Fond de l'air est rouge (A Grin
Without a Cat) last week made for a somewhat ambivalent experience:
even though the film is, ostensibly, a catalogue of disappointments,
its registering of a time when there were challenges no matter how
inchoate, messy, contradictory to the existing order, cannon but offer
some inspiration in these much bleaker times. A Grin Without a Cat,
originally released in 1977 but given a new post epilogue by Marker in
1992, is an epic montagemeditation on what Marker called 'the Third
World War': the hydraheaded revolutionary or would-be revolutionary
struggles of the Sixties and the Seventies. Marker constructed the
film entirely out of archive material, shooting no original footage,
and producing associations, connections, foreshadowing and echoes
through masterly editing. The effect, especially if you are not
minutely familiar with events in France, Vietnam, Algeria, Bolivia,
Cuba and Czechoslovakia is disorientating, vertiginous. You find
yourself QuantumLeapt into the middle of a jostling crowd scene; no
sooner have you got your bearings there when you abruptly find
yourself in another place, another time. Marker's commentary spoken by
a number of actors gives you clues, epigraphs, rather than
explication. But Marker's aim not to render the period from 67 to 77
as Objective History to be ponfiticated upon by 'experts' for whom the
Meaning of the events is already established, nor, even worse, to
produce a vanguardist version of I heart 1968, in which sighing former
revolutionaries look back on anger with the tender contempt of
contemporary 'wisdom'. No, the point was to present the events 'in
becoming', to restore to them a subjectivity (in the Kierkegaardian
sense) that retrospection structurally forecloses. At one stage in the
film, Marker's commentary ruefully notes that while revolutionaries,
failed revolutionaries and revolutionaries devoted all their attention
to the formation of the New Left, the New Right was coalescing,
unnoticed. Cue images of Valery Giscard D'estaing playing football in
a carefullycultivated attempt to look sporty and modern. The PR
director of Citroen muses on the 'science of management' (too
complicated, he says, for even the most talented Union member to
master) and looks forward to the incorporation of leftist desire into
Capital that would become postFordism. Cut to now, where the images of
even an ultimately failed militancy belong to a past. A past that was
not in one sense even mine, that was over before I was born in July
1968. Yet the reverberations continued for a few years yet, were an
unacknowledged (by me, then) background to the Things that I enjoyed
in the late is and early 80s. For those of us arriving after the
event, the significance of the convulsions documented in Marker's film
could only be apprehended much later, once their effects had
completely ebbed away and the reality (and the pleasure) principles
were Restored. Marcus' Lipstick Traces whose temporal jumpcutting in
many ways recalls that of Marker's film goes some way to establishing
the connections between the events remembered in A Grin Without a Cat
and those that began in the UK at more or less the time that the film
was completed. A cheshire cat's grin, lipstick traces on a cigarette,
spectres of Marx: Marcus, Derrida and Marker come to see ruptures,
revolts and revolutions as ghostly residue, thin stains on the
seamless surfaces of post-cold War Capital. The untranslatable French
title of Marker's film suggests possibilities that hovered and haunted
without ever making themselves real. At the Marker conference held at
the ICA a few years ago, Barry Langford argued that, 'rather than the
spectre of Communism famously invoked by Marx in the opening lines of
the Communist Manifesto', for both A Grin Without a Cat and Marx's
'The Civil War in France' a hundred years before it, 'it is the
phantom of revolution that haunts Marx and Marker alike that is, the
fear that revolution will ultimately prove, precisely, phantasmic'. If
Marx and Marker's fear was that revolution would only be a spectre,
our suspicion is that it will not turn out to be even that, that the
stricken ghosts have been put to flight once and for all. (And even
the 'death of communism' is not enough for the guardians of the new
status quo, for whom 'communism is not dead enough ... they will only
be content when they have driven a stake through its heart and buried
it at the crossroads at midnight.' Seumas Milne, via IT). The
struggles in A Grin without a Cat might have been defeated, might even
have contributed to a more ferociously effective Reaction, but the
pressures that those events brought to bear almost had very immediate
effects by contesting the Possible, by rejecting 'realism', they could
not but have altered expectations about what was acceptable in the
workplace, about what could happen in everyday life. The revolutions
were cultural; which is to say, they understood that culture and
politics could not be conceived in isolation from one another. Both
Althusser and the situationistinspired students of 68, in many ways so
opposed, could agree on at least one thing: that cultural products
were never merely cultural. In their condemnations of recuperated
Spectacle and Ideological Apparatuses, they granted a weight to
cultural products which few would countenance now. I felt the contrast
between what Marker's film recounted and contemporary realities
especially painfully last week when I went on a TUC training course
with members of NATFHE from other FE colleges. The stories of
increased casualization, of newly punitive sickness policies, of
lecturers being sacked and forced to reapply for their jobs, of the
imposition of more and more targets and 'spurious measurables', each
entailing yet more pointless, window-dressing paperwork, confirmed
what, individually, we all already knew. The Further Education sector
is in crisis; its problems only symptomatic of a wider malaise in UK
education as a whole. Further Education colleges, out of Local
Education Authority control since 1992, show the way in which a
'reformed' (i.e. partprivatized) education will develop. The recent
report which stated that students spooned at Alevel cannon cope with
university study would come as little surprise to few Alevel teachers
and lecturers. The pressure to meet government targets means that
quality and breadth of teaching is sacrificed for the narrow goal of
passing the exam: an instrumentalization of education that fully
accepts that its only role is to reproduce the labour force. Far far
away from 68, at the core of whose conflagration was education, and
the question of what it could be: could it be more than an ideological
training camp, a carrera institution? One thing that occured to me
last week, prompted by the contrast between Marker's Then and our Now,
was that the third way is not entirely a phantasm, an ideological
dupe. There is in fact a reality to the third way, and it is the
reality of bureaucracy. That is what is left once politics has become
administration. It's hard to believe that public services are not more
clogged with bureaucracy than they were preThatcher. Certainly,
education is choked with the stuff... targets, action plans, log
books, all of them required conditions for funding by the Learning and
Skills Council, and assessed by Ofsted, whose threat no longer takes
the form of an invasive external entity arriving every two or three
years, but has become interjected into the institution itself, through
the permanent synoptic vigilance of a bloated managerial strata
determined to overcompensate in order to fully ensure it is meeting
central government's demands. This is the reality of 'market
stalinism' in education. Is there a way to challenge or roll back the
slow, implacable, rapacious proliferation of bureaucracy? Only by a
collective action that seems inconceivable now.... Only by a change in
the ideological climate.... Only by a switch in the cultural
atmosphere.... Where to start? While we search, desperately, for
cracks in the Possible, bureaucracy, that steel spider, patiently
spins its grey web.... Dominic Fox's poetic is a consistently
thoughtful site that I should have linked to long ago. Of Dominic's
recent posts, this one, on the relevance of the use/mention
distinction to the Danish cartoon controversy, is a particularly good
place to start. There are good reasons to suppose that the alGhuraaba
march of a couple of weeks ago was infiltrated and indeed organised by
MI5. (It was a conclusion Infinite Thought and I immediately leapt to
the moment we saw the alGhuraaba banners, most of them neatly written
in the same hand, all of them bearing screamingly proactive slogans
apparently designed to correspond to Middle England's worst
nightmares.) But the political truth of this conspiracy speculation
resides in the fact that, even if the march was not a government
putup, it might as well have been. Images of the march can hardly have
impeded the smooth passage through parliament this week of the
government's bill outlawing the 'glorification of Terrorism'. But
there is a wider lesson to be drawn here: that it is in the interests
of both the War on Terror and political Islam for it to be believed
that we are in the midst of a global Jihad. The notion that the US and
the UK governments are implacably opposed to political Islam in all
its forms is an illusion. The Iraqi constitution is only one example
of a series of accommodations that the Bush and Blair administrations
have come to with political Islam. Tariq Ali points out that the
actual numbers involved in violent protests against the Danish
cartoons was actually astonishingly small: 'In reality, the number of
original demonstrators was tiny: 300 in Pakistan, 400 in Indonesia,
200 in Tripoli, a few hundred in Britain (before Saturday's bigger
reconciliation march), and governmentorganised hoodlums in Damascus
burning an embassy. Beirut was a bit larger. Why blow this up and
pretend that the protests had entered the subsoil of spontaneous mass
anger? They certainly haven't anywhere in the Muslim world, though the
European media has been busy fertilising the widespread ignorance that
exists in this continent.' As Ali goes on to argue, given the
ferocious scale of the used attacks on Iraq and Afghanistan, the
outrage was also curiously misplaced. But there is, in fact, a
symmetry between the US racist attack on secular Iraq and the protests
of Islamists and other Muslims which make no reference to racism at
all. Thus, to understand the current situation in religious terms is
not a 'stage' on the way to politicization; it is actively opposed to
a political interpretation. It collude with the view happily accepted
by Bush and Blair, both of whom condemned the publication of the
cartoons that offences against religion count far more than violent
attacks upon people. 'Did the Danish imam who travelled round the
Muslim world pleading for this show the same anger at Danish troops
being sent to Iraq? The occupation of Iraq has costs tens of thousands
of Iraqi lives. Where is the response to that or the tortures in Abu
Ghraib? Or the rapes of Iraqi women by occupying soldiers? Where is
the response to the daily deaths of Palestinians? These are the issues
that anger me. Last year Afghans protested after a US marine in
guantanamo had urinated on the Qur'an. It was a vile act and there was
an official inquiry. The marine in question explained that he had been
urinating on a prisoner and a few drops had fallen accidentally on the
Qur'an as if pissing on a prisoner (an old imperial habit) was somehow
more acceptable.' Simon's response to my and others' anxieties about
the Arctic Monkeys has certainly crystallized a few things. Perhaps
unfairly, I can't help but read much of it symptomatically. It's hard
not to attribute his lowered expectations the palpable sense that
'this is the best we can expect now' to the effects of a period of
cultural downturn. Many of his arguments in favour of the Arctic
Monkeys sound more like depressive rationalizations than wholehearted
celebrations. I reiterate that my problem with the Arctic Monkeys is
more with the 'phenonemon' than the record itself. It is the cultural
politics of their success which trouble me. In Kantian terms, you
could say the problem is not with the act (of liking the particular
record) but with the maxim the principle underlying that act. One of
those maxims is neatly stated in Simon's (presumably partly ironic)
slogan be reasonable, capitulate to the available. The reason Pop was
so attuned to the social tumult of the sixties and seventies was not
because of any explicit 'political' content but because the axiom
implicit in its enjoyment 'Never be satisfied with the Possible!'
resolutely refused to come to a concordat with 'what was available'.
What could be a better argument against the AM phenomenon than that it
has led to a maxim such as this, which definitely places the enjoyment
of Pop on the side of the reality principle and capitalist realism?
The issues Simon's correspondent Matt Wright raises are particularly
worthy of attention, because they allow me the opportunity to offer a
few clarifications on the question of modernism. Matt 'wonders whether
"advocating for a return to a past aesthetic idealthe modernist
principle of pushing forward and advocating the Truly Newas espoused
by punk and (most of the time) myself, whether that was in some senses
antimodernist /nostalgic, in so far as one of the salient features of
modernity as it's been for some while now is the fading away of the
idea of the vanguard, its retreat from the centre of cultural life.'
While superficially convincing, this argument, quickly deconstruct
itself. On what grounds can it condemn the supposed 'antimodernism' of
holding fast to modernist principles? Only by appealing to the very
'modernist' notion of progression and temporal succession which it at
the same time rejects. But there is a deeper problem with this line of
argument. It rests upon a fundamental misapprehension about the nature
of modernism. Modernism is not an advocacy of the current or the
contemporary. It would be better to say that it is the exact opposite
of such a stance. Modernism is about breaks with current conditions.
The modernist event is the moment when what appeared to be a seamless
'present' (Burroughs) breaks open; the Possible shatters into a
million previously unimaginable possibilities. There is nothing
determinate 'in' this moment; it is a kind of pure emptiness, a
nihilation. Each modernist artifact is significant not for what it
'is' but for the possibilities it points to but which itself is not.
To get concrete. post-punk (and if anything remind us of this, it's
Rip It Up and Start Again) was modernist not because it produced 'good
records' but because it continually put into question the very notion
of what a record is and what it could be. Each new band, or each new
record by a band, each new style, posed that question differently and
made new posing of the question possible. By contrast, the
postmodernity to which the Arctic Monkeys belong is delimiteddefined
by a series of closed prescriptions. They belong to a stable genre
which forms part of a resolved cultural scene in which the status of
cultural objects like records is (ostensibly) settled. There can be
endless permutation within this cultural scene, but no events, nothing
which breaks out of the parameters set by the scene. The analogy or
perhaps homology here would be the 'interpassivity' of computer games:
you can play the game in your own way, but the matrix of possible
actions is already laid down. All you (can) do is select from a preset
menu. The Arctic Monkeys no doubt combine the elements which make up
their sound in an inventive, even ingenious way, but the elements are
already givens, dehistoricised relics. That is why no amount of energy
and effervescence will ever dispel the sense of defeat and staleness
that their sound instantiate (youthful fizz will only make their death
sound more uncanny*) and at a metalevel legislates. One might say that
the record is about defeat and staleness; so it is, but, lacking the
capacity to annihilate those conditions, it is reduced to merely
expressing them. On the dispenses AM thread, some have mocked
vanguardism for its supposed interdiction that cultural products
should only be enjoyed if they are 'aligned with a correct ideological
program'. But this presupposes a separation of politics from culture,
and forgets that the default condition for cultural products
especially in a period of Restoration like now is to be 'aligned with
an ideological program', namely, capitalist realism. The very positing
of a non-political space is, in fact, the founding act of ideology,
and 'entertainment' has constituted the preeminent example of such a
space in postmodernity (the cultural expression of post-fordist
capitalism). A couple of posts back, Alex Williams described how
changes in the market have led to the segmentation of the Pop audience
into omnivorous consumers who 'graze' across well-defined niche
genres. In the 'generic stability' of pop and the passive nomadism of
its consumers, then, we have 'capitalism in miniature', not because
the pop configuration is in some analogical relation to current
capitalism, but because, more ominously, it is one of its structural
effects. It might well be the case that this is to be the final fate
of Pop, and that it will never again be the site for a modernist
irruption. But we cannon a prior say that modernism is exhausted and
finished. In the twenties and thirties, modernism's privileged sites
were classical music, jazz, the novel, poetry and film. In the sixties
and seventies, they were predominantly Pop and film. The period of
retrenchment between these two great outbreaks was precisely that:
not, as it might have appeared at the time, a final defeat for
modernism, but a time of restoration and restitution. We live again in
a period of Restoration, a period when it can seem that the crushing
omnipresence of Global Capital has locked down cultural and political
possibilities as never before. But the victory of Restoration would be
complete if we forget that this is a time of knockdown and resign
ourselves to acclimatising to its privations. That is why the Arctic
Monkeys are so dangerous a temptation.  *It is uncanny I'll grant you
that. I agree with Simon that 'if you teletransported an AMs song back
to 1985, it wouldnt, actually, fit right in' but that's because it
would already have sounded old. Actually, that is in its favour,
because, Simon is right, the AMs sound more New Wave 79 than Indie 85.
I must confess that when I first saw the video, I really, genuinely
thought that the AMs were some late is missing link between XTC, Gang
of Four and ATV that had passed me by. Not only the music but also the
lighting and even the shirts convinced me that this was some lost
performance from the Whistle Test archives. I thought the 'from 1984'
thing was a flashforward to a gleaming future that was still a few
years off... The very fact that the AMs are so convincing they
actually could be New Wavers from 79 is what makes them infinitely
better than inept forgers like the leadenfooted Franz Ferdinand or
dull clods like the Kaiser Chiefs. (btw Re: daft comparisons. I.P.
compared Kaiser Chiefs, not the AMs, to the Ruts and the Members
entirely fairly, surely; and it wasn't me but Marcello, an AM admirer,
who brought up Cud, Kingmaker and Wonderstuff.) They are uncanny
because they resemble something that might have existed but never
actually did, like a photograph airbrushed into history. What use
might Nietzsche be today? Or, to put it another way: which Nietzsche
might be of use, now? It will come as no surprise that I would count
Nietzsche the perspectives he who questioned not only the possibility
but the value of Truth as the enemy. There will be even fewer
surprises that I would reject the Dionysian Nietzsche, the celebrant
of transgressive desire. This Nietzsche, in any case, is largely a
postBataillean retrospective construct (even in The Birth of Tragedy,
Nietzsche mourns is the lost tension between Dionysus and Apollo; and
in his later writings Nietzsche is more likely to be found extolling
the necessity of constraints and limitations than he is to be heard
calling for the unrestrained venting of libido). The perspectival and
the Dionysiac are far too timely. The Nietzsche that remains untimely
and by that I do not mean outmoded, very far from it is Nietzsche the
aristocrat. Nietzsche should not be taken seriously as a political
theorist, at least not at the level of his positive prescriptions. But
the Nietzsche who denounces the insipidity and mediocrity that result
from democracy's levelling impulses could not be more acute. Passage
after passage of polemic in Beyond Good and Evil seems uncannily
apposite in these times of focusgrouped blandness and 'autonomous
herding'. Nietzsche's real interests lay with cultural politics;
government and social institutions troubled him only insofar as they
produced cultural effects, his ultimate question being: 'What are the
conditions in which great cultural artifacts can emerge?' I was
reminded of Nietzche's warnings about what would happen to culture if
all 'special claims and privileges' are denied, if the very concept of
superiority is abolished, when channelled Houghton won Celebrity Big
Brother a week or so ago (it already seems much longer than that). I
was reminded, too, of Nietzsche's scalding admonition that 'harshness'
and 'cruelty' must be cultivated if the human animal is to
transformed, by hammer blows and force of will, into a great work of
art; reminded, especially, when some posters on dispenses were
seriously advancing 'niceness' niceness, that is as a desirable trait.
Chantelle's victory wasn't just a popularity contest: as Marcello's
excellent Big Brother piece observed, a principle was at stake, the
principle that ordinariness must trump any notion of superiority. 'You
are not going to win support or respect by placing yourself out of the
ordinary You need to be approachable but you also need to be yourself.
Thats what young people respect. Thats a recent quote from one Alex
Folkes, the speaker for a pressure group named Votes at Sixteen,
apropos George Galloway, and its the kind of exhausting, fatuous
antiphilosophy which tempts me to form a pressure group called Votes
at Thirty. Nevertheless it is (un)pretty fitting for an age bereft of
desire for godhood. Where once we assembled in front of screens or
stages to gasp in awe at people doing and achieving things we could
never hope of doing or achieving ourselves  but how we luxuriated,
carried ourselves afloat, on the dream of doing so  now all we require
is a humbling mirror. This is the sort of thing which stops dangerous
people from gaining power, but also the kind of closure which would
ultimately forbid all art.' Where once we assembled in front of
screens or stages to gasp in awe at people doing and achieving things
we could never hope of doing or achieving ourselves ... now all we
require is a humbling mirror. This is Celebreality: the simultaneous
sublimation of the Star and the elevation of 'the ordinary'. The
commentary on Celebrity Big Brother treated it as self-evident that
people will want to 'identify with' media figures who offer a
comforting and challenging reflection of themselves at their most
mediocre, stupid and harmless. Julie Burchill's endlessly reiterated
polemic in favour of Big Brother that it allows working class people
opportunities to break into a media otherwise dominated by the
privileged is baseless for three reasons. First, because the real
beneficiaries of Big Brother are not the contestants, whose 'career'
is notoriously shortlived, but Endemol, with its coterie of smug
graduate producers. Second, because Big Brother trades in a
patronising and reductive image of the working class. The dominion of
Celebreality relies upon the mediocrity inducing the working class
into corresponding to and 'identifying with' that image. Third,
because Big Brother and reality TV have effaced those areas of popular
culture in which a working class that aspired to more than 'wealth' or
'fame' once excelled. Its rise has meant a defeat for that
overreaching proletarian drive to be more, (I am nothing but should be
everything), a drive which negated Social Facts by inventing Sonic
Fictions, which despised 'ordinariness' in the name of the strange and
the alien. On Celebrity Big Brother, Pete Burns, with his casual
cruelties, his savage articulacy and his Masochfurs, was a cartoon
symbol of those lost ambitions, skulking and sulking at the periphery,
a Glam prince in an age of postBlairite roundheads. We all know that
the 'reality' of reality TV is an artful construction, an effect not
only of editing but of a lorenzi ratinamirroredlabyrinth artificial
environment which attenuates psychology into a series of territorial
twitches. The 'reality' that is designated is significant more for
what is absent from it than for any positive properties it is deemed
to possess. And what is absent, above all, is fantasy. Or rather,
fantasy objects. We once turned to popular culture because it produced
fantasy objects; now, we are asked to 'identify with' the fantasising
subject itself. It was entirely appropriate that, the week after
channelled won Celebrity Big Brother, Smash Hits should have announced
its imminent closure. Smash Hits began just as the Glam continuum was
winding down. What Smash Hits took from punk was its least Nietzschean
affect, namely its 'irreverence'. In the case of Smash Hits, this
amounted to a compulsory trivialization coupled with a kind of good-
humoured debunking of the pretensions of Stardom. Behind Smash Hits'
silly surrealism was good solid commonsense and a conflicted desire,
to both have your idols and kill them. Heat was Smash Hits' successor
and what rendered it obsolete. No need to bother with the (Pop)
pretext now you can consume celebrity directly, untroubled by Pop's
embarrassing Dreams. channelled is the logical conclusion of the
process: the antiope antiIdol. Nietzsche's contention was that the
kind of levelling channelled stands for was the inevitable and
necessary consequence of all egalitarianism. Yet popular culture was
once the arena which demonstrated that any genuine egalitarianism is
inimical to any such levelling down. I wrote last year of Goth as 'a
paradoxically egalitarian aristocracy in which membership [is] not
guaranteed by birth or beauty but by selfdecoration'; will popular
culture ever again teach us that egalitarianism is not hostile to, but
relies upon, a willtogreatness, an unconditional demand for the
excellent? Special announcement You all know how troublesome
journalists can sometimes be when you're trying to spread the message
of how wonderful your product is? They can make such a fuss about
'making their own minds up' and 'being critical' ada ada yada. And
paying them off can be a real drain on resources. Well, worry no more.
rubik Industries have the solution to all your promotional needs in
the shape of the robot [tm]. The robot is an easy-to-use Artifical
Stupidity program which converts press releases, PR statements or
copywriting into printhead advertorial, quick as a flash. No questions
asked! The robot turns product placement into an artform. And unlike
paid advertisements, the PRobot's stories have the advantage of
looking like they come from an independent and objective source. All
you have to do is convince a newspaper or magazine that one of our
robots is a real flesh and blood human being not difficult in today's
world of email and working from home. The robot will do the rest.
Worried that the robot will have a limited vocabulary and a weak
style? Those features are exactly what make it so convincing and so
effective in today's media! The robot always uses easytodigest phrases
that every reader will already be familiar with. For example, if a
process is coming to an end, 'the death knell' will be 'sounding' for
it. If something is fashionable it will be 'all the rage'. This kind
of language has been proven to put to sleep any critical or
questioning faculties in readers so, no distractions from the
important message about your product! The robot makes allowances for
even the least well-informed reader. For instance, HMV will be
described as a 'music retailer', Bob Marley will be called 'Jamaican
legend'. We already have functioning model up and running and filing
copy at respected left-of-centre broadsheet the Guardian. The 'Natalie
Hanman' model haspublished over FIFTY articles in the past year. Try
getting your journalistic contacts out of the pub long enough to be
THAT efficient! Here are just a few examples of Natalie's work. 'Like
bits of food in your loved one's beard, leftover lunch in your office
keyboard is at best unsightly, and at worst unhygienic. While over the
years messy office workers have come up with numerous ways to clear
the clutter from in between their keys blowing air on the keyboard,
shaking it furiously or folding up bits of paper with which to dig the
damn stuff out it now could be a simple matter of wash and go.
Unotron's new SpillSeal keyboard can be immersed in antibacterial
washing-up liquid to remove nearly 100% of germs, with no risk of the
water leaking into electrical contact points or damaging your computer
equipment.' 'Facebook.com, launched in February last year by three
room-mates at America's Harvard University, puts a new twist on the
growing phenomenon of social networking sites. More friendly than
friendlier but with less street cred than MySpace, its focus is on
communication between college students and if academia isn't where
you're at, then you are unlikely to get a look in. 'Apple turned the
screw further on competitors last week by revamping its pod lineup and
slashing prices. The second generation pod Mini, which can be charged
by USB and claims increased battery life, is now available as a kgb
model for 139 or kgb for 169. The USB power adaptor does not come as
part of the package, and will set buyers back a further 19. The
topoftherange, colourscreen pod Photo has also seen drastic price
cuts, with a kgb model now costing 249, bringing it much closer to the
price of the classic white iPod. Shoppers wanting more welly can pick
up a kgb unit for 309. Both moves mark Apple's attempt to extend its
grip on the music player market and encourage new buyers to hook into
the brand.' Remember, these articles all appeared on the features or
comments pages, with a byline... You can see all of Natalie's articles
here. Safe, if used as directed. This, from reader Alex Williams, is
well worth throwing into the current discussion of current pop's
antifuturism: 'just a few points that an economist friend of mine and
I have been discussing of late re: the demonstrable slowing down of
excitement and innovation in music (and not just pop, obviously...)
Your last posting in response to S. Reynolds appeared to be heading
off in this direction, with the outlying limbs of pop providing it
with its impetus and "thrills" for at least ten, maybe twenty years
now, and that these limbs (in the doomsday scenario which you kind of
half subscribe to) are likely to gradually wink out one by one leaving
only ossified genres and music which moves, but does not live or grow.
One thing to consider here though is music as in some senses a
business, not exactly like any other, (it certainly has strange
foibles and kinks) but a business none the less. The changes in the
market are likely to have had an effect on the produce and
interrelationships between the interested parties (the companies, the
acts, the consumers and the media). There is a term in the economics
of the niche (apparently), which is the "long tail". As the technology
of replication and distribution improves (along with increased
globalisation) it becomes increasingly lucrative to market to ever
more esoteric niches. As marketing becomes ever more targeted, media
naturally evolves to track these niches (or conversely to rush to the
most watery of middleground fodder). This can be observed in the
changing patterns of British music media with ever more niche
publications it makes less sense economically for, say, the NME to
cover as broad a range of music as it did previously as it is already
being covered in far greater depth than it could feasibly manage.
Hence its retreat to its selfperceived "core" values an endless
variation on four whey-faced white boys with guitars, in essence. The
paradoxical thing (and a point which you yourself have raised) is the
seemingly growing eclecticism of the average consumer of music.
However, as you pointed out, whilst they might listen to a broader
range of music, the postmodern instinct is to consume in neat little
boxes, a musical buffet where the sauces never mix, just sound files
carefully labelled and eternally subdivided on the hard drive. But why
then this lack of desire to see further blending (not necessarily to
create mere potholing aimless eclectitronica, but to create the seeds
of new genres)? A number of answers here... *Increased availability of
music leading to devaluation of intellectual and emotional
relationships between consumer and music necessary to create high
demands of it... see this[Results of a normative study on changing
nature of music consumption in the UK.] *The nicking of media output
leading to a lack of what might be termed "selektas" in the past due
to the far more unitary nature of the media covering music far more
genres rubbed uneasily against each other, allowing high profile
journalists to "selekt" elements of music along with ideas from
outside to create new blueprints for genres yet to exist (see Morley
and new pop as the perfect example of this), or to create new
terminology to link together previously disparate emergent movements
(P sherborne on micro house being the last notable example of this
that I can think of). Also as publications head ever more in the
direction of the mainstream or alternatively the niche they become
respectively too commercially driven to make such bold statements or
too safe in their little nichecocoons to want to shake the system.
*The increasing historic stability of genre leading to a lack of
belief that any further great changes and shifts might occur This is
especially prevalent in what might be termed rock or indie music, the
utter lack of futurity or modernity as a core value. If consumers are
habituated to change as the natural course of music then it is natural
that when such change does not occur, they will become more demanding,
take matters into their own hands, however if they have been brought
up as guitar-based music fans have with the idea of an eternal same,
then how could there ever be the possibility of change. Genres are in
part of course ossifying because they no longer tread on each others
toes or call into question the others values and conventions. And not
just genrebygenre, but in terms of the pop mainstream and the alleged
avant underground. Each of these is far too stable and unchallenged,
Indeed it seems to be about expectations. In music as in many areas of
creative and political life nowadays it is apparent that there is
little more than a hegemony of the possible, a self-limiting awareness
that there is no further to go. Which becomes of course a bitter self-
fulfilling prophecy. The major problem is really that the numbers
necessary to demand the impossible, to be ultimately utterly
dissatisfied and demand and create something better and to disrupt and
unsettle the staid conventions of all the mummified tentacles of this
octopus of music I doubt exist. To achieve a postpunk/new pop like
event (or even rave into the mainstream moment) only requires a
relatively small critical number of people for it to take off. But
crucially, given the slowing of expectations it seems even this is
unlikely. As an example of this, look at The Guardian article recently
referred to on Dissensusnot even an inkling of the idea that the
central problem in the case of The Arctic Monkeys (especially
sonically) is that they exist entirely within the remit of ideas from
almost 30 years ago. But when you remark of this fact to anyone,
seemingly, the response is simply that there are no new ideas, and its
all over. And if people only believe in the possible, its all fucked.
What is perhaps necessary is for the tail to no longer wag the dog and
for artists, media and consumers to evolve new committed positions
within the emerging distributive networks and allow a rebirth of the
excitement and invention which marked popular music from 1950s onwards
in the last century. Because it is doubtful as to whether we could
structurally return to things as they were. The other options are to
tunnel further into the various niches, or to play ever more elaborate
polo games (hauntology perhaps?) But that is pretty much an expression
of terminal decline into mere classical languages.' UPDATE: Padraig
responds, with a question. I assume most of you have seen this by now.
If and when you stop laughing (and I'll level you with you I ain't
stopped yet), watch the unip young gunslinger put out of her niaserie
by snI.P.er shots from the PillBox. All the young dupes taken down in
a hail of bullet points: . BLOC PARTY and KAISER CHIEFS: 'disturbingly
reminiscent of post-punk thirdraters like The Members and The Ruts'.
FRANZ FERDINAND: 'more an spy Our New Wave References game than a real
and original band' . BABYSHAMBLES 'represent the triumph of
selfmythologisation over smeary, half-cocked substance.'. ARCTIC
MONKEYS: '25% youthful sizzle to 75% formulaic boilerplate and
standard teeny moan.' Each one a crack shot, I'd say. It might seem
cruel to mock Natalie, who can only be 17 at the most surely. But when
you bear in mind that was the age at which IP and Burchill joined
NME... well, that's a whole other story of decline, ain't it. It's
nice that the Guardian is willing to give va kids a chance, like, (has
she been taken on as a governmentscheme trainee?) but surely a kindly
member of its editorial team could have performed some emergency
surgery on the following ghastly slew of bad copywriting, poorly
digested press release and breathless PR: 'With Rupert Murdoch's
networking webster space planning to launch a unspecific version any
minute now giving an initial emphasis to the hugely popular and
influential music section the sound of our times will become set even
more firmly in history's stone.' In history's stone ... I wince on
behalf of the English language... Wonderful that the Guardian has no
qualms about giving a free ad to Rupert M too. What makes this
worrying as well as hilarious is the horrible suspicion that
Nataleee's 'doubtfree syntax of excitable PR' is the authentic voice
of today Yoof, i.e. 'a supine generation of essentially nihilistic
unquestioning cocooned and complacent consumers', as Alex, one of
Pillbox's commenters, puts it. Jejune enthusiasm, even for
remake/remodellers like Arctic Monkeys, would be welcome. But the
staggering thing about the article is the absolute lack of ANY comment
about the music, about how it makes her feel, about what is striking
or novel about it. What we get, instead, is an earnest citation of
STATISTICS, as if she's an account manager powerpointing her end-of-
year report to a bored CEO. 'It is an overlooked fact that UK acts
dominated the bestselling album charts in 2005, occupying all top five
positions. While Franz Ferdinand warmed up with an impressive 700,000
sales of their second album, You Could Have It So Much Better, in the
UK alone during the four months after its release, the Arctic Monkeys
have now confirmed the indierock revolution we've been waiting for.
Their debut album, Whatever People Say I Am, That's What I'm Not,
shifted a hugely satisfying 360,000 copies in its first week and
stormed to the top of the album charts, where it has stayed for the
second week running. A spokesman for the music retailer HMV summed it
up nicely: "We haven't seen anything quite like this since the
Beatles."' an impressive 700,000a hugely satisfying 360,000 Chilling
stuff, which it's hard not to read as symptomatic of a teen
unconscious totally captured and colonized by Kapital, so immersed in
business ontology as not to be able to see it, still less imagine any
alternative to it. Not to worry, though... Natalie likes Grime too...
Simon's response to my Pop unlike piece is as interesting as you'd
expect. But what Simon calls 'the tiny achilles heel' of my argument
is in fact the very point of it. For it to have come to this, where a
band is celebrated for 'casually outgroov[ing] Franz Ferdinand' (high
praise!), where it is not considered, a priori, a reason for despair
and disgust that 'one of the best records of the year' the year being
2006 is an 'inbreeding' of The Jam, Smiths, Oasis, Libertines* (an
inbreeding of the already inbred): that is a sign that something is
over. Pop really is Trad. My quarrel, after all, was less with the
Arctic Monkeys per se (though Simon's right, I will never permit
myself to like them) than with the critical climate that has elevated
them into the stratosphere. If the AM album were reclassified as a
guilty pleasure, akin to enjoying a good quality Abba tribute band or
something, I would have few problems with it. But not to challenge the
NME rating fifth best British album EVER not to be alarmed by the
audience's fervour for it, is catastrophic for two reasons. First,
because it collude in the pretence that Pop is healthy and thriving
('this is as good as it ever was!') Second, because it actively
contributes to a lowering of expectations ('it won't get any better
than this'). It is, exactly, a matter of principle, of refusing to
give up on desire, because to accept either of these positions is to
betray (Pop's) desire, to lapse in fidelity to those convulsive Events
which made Pop matter, made it more than something pleasant to listen
to. It is a betrayal worse than an actual renunciation of those
events, since it is a forgetting that anything happened in the first
place. For Pop no longer to make demands on the world but to
accomodate itself to the world's 'it'll have to do' realism
constitutes the very flattening into death of which I wrote. Because
it is incumbent on critics as much as artists to nihilate. It is for
critics to cultivate a sense of disgust, of dissatisfaction with what
is being offered. It is for critics to insist that nothing less than
sublimity will ever do. Maybe it is over**. Maybe no amount of bile,
no amount of vituperation, we can produce can stir the comfortable
zombie from its sleepwalk. Simon's right; there are no real resources
in present Pop and I'm using Pop in the broadest sense here , no
contemporary counter-examples to which we can contemptuously compare
Indie's retroism, as once we could. But that is precisely what is so
distressing: can it be... that all Pop tends towards the condition of
Indie a chilling, dispiriting thought. (Mind you, I think Simon's
overstating the case a mite: Grime and dusted may only be trudging
forward, but they haven't yet hit rewind, aren't into their TWENTIETH
GLORIOUS YEAR of inherent and constitutive Retro...) That's why the
critique must change, why I now will countenance the possibility that
things have reached the endzone, a negative plateau, potentially
lasting forever, where nothing happens but it doesn't stop. But, if
there is to be something after this undeath, what we should judge
things against is not what is currently available, but what hasn't yet
arrived, what could (still) happen. * This glum quartet may be
shopworn (and actually pernicious trash in the case of Oasis and the
Libertines), but it's as nothing compared to the four bands Marcello
mentioned in his AM piece: 'Wonder Stuff, Kingmaker, Cud and
Leatherface', acts I hadn't expected to see mentioned again outside
the context of a carbon sale. Scratch that, bands I would NEVER even
have remembered (repression can be a wonderful thing). To be fair to
Marcello, he makes a point of saying that it is 'a quadrant of music
which I rarely, if ever, am tempted to sample again in the just
century', but... come on... surely this is the most dreary array of
groups ever to feature in one sentence. Picture this scene. Let's say
you are at a jungle event, circa 94. Someone tells you thakin 2006 a
group compared to Wonder Stuff, Kingmaker, Cud and Leatherface will
have made one of the best records of the year. Think about how you
would have felt. Hold onto THAT feeling, please... ** My grim story
would look something like this. Mainstream Pop had its years of
nevertoreturn vibrancy between 64 and 82. After that, the engines of
innovation all come from Pop's satellite cultures (hip hop, the rave
discontinuum), which occasionally impinge on a mainstream that slowly
but surely becomes moribund. Gradually, the satellites too wink out,
trundling around in permanently fixed orbits, maintaining themselves,
but doing nothing more... From an interview with Hamid Taqvaee, Leader
and Secretary ofthe Central Committee of the WorkerCommunist Party in
Iran. 'Political Islam exists because it was created in the final
analysis by the policies of Western governments. And, I am not
referring to the Iraq war alone or Western intervention in
Afghanistan. These are only the most recent examples. Western
governments have basically been supporting political Islam for some
twenty to thirty years now, including the caliban visvis the former
Soviet Union. They created the climate for the problems we are faced
with today. Political Islam rose to power when Western powers
supported Khomeini against the Shah in order to control and in fact
defeat the revolution in Iran. These are the roots of the political
Islam that we see today. And that is only one aspect of the reality we
are faced with. The other is the way that Islam and religion are
promoted as a whole in Western society. With Reaganism, Thatcherism,
and neoconservatism, religion has been given a growing role in
education and our system of values in the name of multiculturalism and
toleration of cultures. ... You must rely on the universal values of
civil society, on secularism and humanism and attack political Islam
and religion as part of government, the educational system, and a
social system with the most backward system of values. The solution is
secularism, defending humanism, defending civil society, defending
universal values of human beings against any kind of religious
political, social, governmental system, including political Islam. ...
If there is a proven relationship between a group or cleric and
political Islamic trends in the UK, they must be condemned and
prosecuted. Where does deportation come into it? If British citizens
are British citizens and are prosecuted according to the law,
deporting them only divides citizens between those who are born here
or who are anglo-saxon versus others. It is a form of racism. The fact
that they or their parents originally came from other countries, and
can therefore be deported back there is part of the problem. The
problem is that these governments don't see human beings as human
beings not even their own citizens. Even British citizens are
classified as Muslims or Asians or Arabs, or from wherever they came
from, or where their parents and grandparents came from; that is
exactly the problem. Of course if someone commits a crime, treat them
like a criminal; prosecute them according to the law but why
deportation? ... Secularism has been forgotten in the West. If Tony
Blair wants to attack the problem with reason, then one cannon stand
against extremism and Islamic terrorism alone without referring its
roots, without referring to the environment created by Western
policies. That is the root of the problem. That is the real force of
reason. ... Withdrawing from Iraq is a good move. But, what I am
saying is that it is not enough. Do something with religion and Islam
in your own country. Do something in the philosophy of your culture.
Go back to the French revolution. And attack any religion as a social
activity. Religion is a private matter. Everybody has a right to have
a god or not. It's their personal problem. Please treat religion as a
private matter.' 'Take two opposed pressure groups record the most
violent and threatening statements of group one with regard to group
two and play back to group two Record the answer and take it back to
group one back and forth between opposed pressure groups this process
is known as 'feedback'.' Remind you of anything? Burroughs'
description of the cybernetic production of conflict in The Ticket
that Exploded has never seemed more relevant than over the past five
or six days. I gained a new perspective on the seemingly intractable
'cartoon controversy' yesterday when I went to an inspiring and
invigorating but, significantly, sparsely attended meeting about
women's situation in Iraq. The issues raised at the meeting had
implications far beyond the local situation in Iraq. As Nadia Mahmoud
of the Iraq Freedom Congress said, a victory against the US and
'political Islam' in Iraq would be a victory that would have an impact
across the whole world. The position that the Iraq Freedom Congress
and the The Organisation of Women's Freedom in Iraq (represented at
the meeting by human Mahmoud) advocate secular universalism is
significant, indeed crucial, because it constitutes the Impossible
option, the one excluded by the current political 'reality'. Majority
opinion in the western media (including majority opinion on the left)
collude in offering us the most unsavoury of Hobson's choices: EITHER
western 'civilization' (interpreted to mean us-dominated global
capitalism) OR a theocratic but notionally anti-imperialist Islamism.
In terms of Iraq, this cashes out in terms of a 'choice' between the
US occupation and the resistance. human Mahmoud There is a horrible
symmetry about the way that emancipatory politics has been skewered by
this binary : feminism, grotesquely, has been coopted by neo-
conservative as a legitimation for the invasion and the occupation,
while antiracism and anti-imperialist have provided the justification
for the support offered by some elements of the anti-war left to the
Iraqi resistance. Needless to say, the newton claims about women's
rights increasing after Saddam have rung hollow in the grim, lawless
realities of occupied Iraq. Iraqi women have been betrayed by the
occupation and brutalised by the resistance, raped and assaulted by US
soldiers and Islamist militiamen alike. Women in Iraq occupy the
position of what we might call the 'femmosacer': the excluded, the
exception that stands in for the universal; the supposedly 'less than
human' that stands in for generic humanity. Leftist support for what
both the mahmoud called 'the reactionary resistance' would only makes
sense if the Iraq Freedom Congress and the The Organisation of Women's
Freedom in Iraq did not exist. But given that there are secularist
communist groups in Iraq that demand women's rights, why should the
left have any truck with theocratic militias who shoot women for not
wearing the veil? A possible leftist objection that this is a racist
caricature was exploded by both Nadia Mahmoud and human Mahmoud, who
both confirmed that the militias have been engaged in a brutal
crushing of women's most basic freedoms. Traditional garb is now de
facto mandatory in many areas of Iraq (with the further consequence
that many women have stopped attending universities because they do
not want to be coerced into wearing the veil); the return of polygamy
(outlawed in Iraq in 1958) is threatened; honourkilling is on the
rise; rape and sexual abuse is a growing, if largely unacknowledged,
problem; prostitution, and childprostitution, are on the increase,
fuelling a trend for the abduction of women. This latter is such a
constant danger, human Mahmoud said, that it is now unthinkable for a
woman in most areas of Iraq to walk the streets for even ten minutes
without an armed male to protect her. Iraq has traded the oppression
of Saddam Hussein for a condition of lawless anomie, a sandbank
nightmare in which quasimedievalist warlords plot the coming of the
caliphate in the gleamprog shadows of the US empire. Given all this,
how could leftist apologia for the resistance not itself be
propagating a racial, if not to say racist, fantasy that forgets
Iraq's recent secular history and which holds that Iraqis are not yet
'developed' enough to deal with the question of equality for women?
The only other justification for continued support for the resistance
would be a pragmaticstrategic take on the old, discredited idea that
'my enemy's enemy is my friend'. The fact that this exactly
recapitulates the logic of the Cold War US support for the mujahideen
itself a version of imperialist instrumentalism ('we can use them for
our ends') ought to give those who advocate it at least a moment's
pause. Besides, to think that 'my enemy's enemy is my friend' would
only be justifiable in Iraq if a theocratic Islamist state could be
thought to be preferable to the US occupation a dubious claim at best,
and one which the Freedom Congress and The Organisation of Women's
Freedom reject. The point is, a choice between the imperialist US and
a reactionary militia is not a choice a leftist group should accept.
In any case, it is not a 'choice' at all, because the Islamists groups
have only come to the fore in the wake of the invasion. Both Nadia and
human Mahmoud made it clear that the resistance is more of an effect
of the US invasion than an alternative to it. The war on terror and
islamist are in a relation of interexciting feedback, not of
opposition. In an Iraq that was previously politically secular,
islamist had no real foothold. But the US invasion and occupation have
provided exactly the breeding ground for islamist that many who
opposed the war warned that it would. As we have seen above, the
results for women have been disastrous. In addition to everything
else, the puppet regime has refused to ratify women's rights, which
are only accepted in the constitution at all insofar as they do not
conflict with Islamic law. Part of what was so inspiring yesterday was
seeing it amply demonstrated, in the context of the most concrete of
political situation, that the only rational, coherent and positive
position is secular universalism. The shameful fact is, though, that
neither the Iraq Freedom Congress and the The Organisation of Women's
Freedom in Iraq has much of a profile in Britain. This is no accident;
they have been left off platforms or actively boycotted by such groups
as the Stop the War coalition because of their critical stance towards
Islamism. How can it be that a platform is given to Islamist mullahs
but not to these women? Something has gone badly wrong, and it is
going wrong again in some of the leftist reactions to the cartoon
controversy. Both Nadia Mahmoud and human Mahmoud were predictably
dismissive of the Islamist outrage over the Danish cartoons. Is Islam
so weak, Nadia Mahmoud asked, that it is to be humbled by twelve
caricatures? We should not forget that the publication of the cartoons
in Denmark took place in the context of a political situation in which
Islamophobic sentiments enjoy legitimacy. But to deplore the role that
the cartoons have played in the local Danish situation, and to deplore
the way in which they, and the ensuing controversy, will be used by
racists in the UK and elsewhere, should not lead us into the invidious
position of defending Islamism, a creed, which, as louvain Mahmoud and
Nadia Mahmoud will tell you if you doubt it for even a moment, is
bigoted, brutal and inherently hostile to egalitarian aims.
Islamophobia is noxious not because it attacks Islam but because it
racialism Muslims, treating them as an amorphous subhuman scourge,
whose rights and lives can be stripped away. But defending Muslims
from racist attacks should not entail defending Islam as a religion,
still less should it involve defending islamist as a political
position, any more than rejecting antisemitism should mean supporting
Judaism and Zionism. In the case of the cartoons, two causes of
outrage have been conflated: first, the cartoons are held to be
violating a prohibition to produce images of Mohammed; second, the
connection between Islam and terrorism has been deemed to be
offensive. Even if there were an interdiction against images of the
prophet (and the belief that there has always been such a prohibition
has been dismissed by some as a 'zombie error' an ill-founded
commonplace belief that will not die), so what? There is no right to
not be offended, nor should there be. If the cartoons were an insult
to Islam, so be it. The only political objection to the cartoons is
that they form part of a racist attack on Muslim populations, and the
opposition to the cartoons remains political only when it makes a
distinction between defending Muslims and defending Islam. Yet the
Indonesians who burned Danish flags in the streets were not objecting
to racism, they were protesting an affront to Islam. And if the issue
is offence, those who defend the Islamist right not to be offended
ought, logically, also to support the Christian groups who boycotted
the Jerry Springer Opera. As for the images which connect Islam to
terrorism... Some have compared these cartoons with Nazi anti-jewish
propaganda, but the analogy is partial at best. I take the cizek point
that, even if the Jews were guilty of everything that the Nazis
accused them of, it wouldn't stop the Nazi persecution of them being
racist . But the converse must also be accepted: the fact that
particular trends in Islam can be used by racists to justify their
delirium does not mean that those trends are not objectionable and
wrong. A better analogy than the anti-jewish caricatures of the is
would be cartoons satirising the Catholic Church's tendency to produce
paedophilia priests. If cartoons depicting Christ sodomising children
were to appear, and if the Catholic Church responded to their
publication with outraged howls about being insulted accompanied by
calls for those who denounced them to be slaughtered, I would expect
to find the Church supported by few on the left. It seems reasonable
to expect the Church to accept that there is some causal link between
the institution and child sex abuse. (The Catholic response to the
pederasty question has been inadequate and derisory, but that's
another story.) In the same way, there is some case to be answered
about the links between Islam and terrorism. The fact that these links
are not straightforward, that not all Muslims support terrorism, that
some terrorism is justified, that terrorism emerges from causes other
than religion even when it is carried out in the name of religion, is
all the more reason why the best response, rather than demanding the
destruction of all who debased the sanctity of your beliefs, is to
call for a rational discussion that will do justice to the
complexities of the issue. Not to expect that from Muslims is to
infantilism them, to impute a lower level of rationality to them than
'we' supposedly possess, in other words to engage in a sentimental,
paternalistic Orientalism.The temptation, at the moment, is to take a
side from those that the Spectacle lays out for us (the media's role
as a sitting pawn in the escalation of this affair raises a whole set
of other, intriguing questions). But racists and protesting Islamists,
like occupiers and militia, are not opposing sides so much as twin
faces of a median band. The Iraq Freedom Congress and The Organisation
of Women's Freedom in Iraq show that there is another way, a way
out.If there is a current coalescence of fascination around
hauntology, there is also a mounting anxiety about the death, dearth,
end of Pop. A few examples: this atrocious piece on the 'death of
black music' (significant only for the statistics it cites), Simon's
05 roundup for Frieze, a number of recent threads on Dissensus,
including this one and this one. The suspicion is inescapable: part of
the reason why tautology should appeal to us so much now is that,
unconsciously, and increasingly consciously, we suspect that something
has died. Nothing lasts forever, of that I'm sure Announcements of the
demise of pop are nothing new of course. And there any number of
reasons to be sceptical about the language of 'death' and morbidity
(not least because it concedes too much to the vitalis vaporization of
life). The fact is that nothing ever really dies, not in cultural
terms. At a certain point a point that is usually only discernible
retrospectively cultures shunt off into the sidings, cease to renew
themselves, ossie into Trad. They don't die, they become undead,
surviving on old energy, kept moving, like Baudrillard's deceased
cyclist, only by the weight of inertia. Cultures have vibrancy,
piquancy only for a while. Lyric poetry, the novel, opera, jazz had
their Time; there is no question of these cultures dying, they
survive, but with their willpower diminished, their capacity to define
a Time lost. No longer historic or existential, they become historical
and aesthetic lifestyle options not ways of life. We are lulled into
the belief that Pop should be immune to this process by the illusion
to which those within any culture, any civilization, fall prey
(perhaps it is is a necessary illusion?): the belief that our own
culture will continue forever. The question we need to ask, then, is
not so much 'will pop die?' but has pop already reached the point of
undeath? Has it seduced us into an entropy tango, clasping us with
zombie fingers as it slowly winds down towards permanent irrelevance?
Questions worth raising, if only because as soon as they are no longer
raised we can be sure that Pop really has reached its terminal phase.
What alarms me is the lack of alarm about Pop's current situation.
Where is the chorus of disapproval and disquiet about a group like the
Arctic Monkeys? Granted, it is not that the Arctic Monkeys are
significantly worse than any of their retro forebears (although if
anything ought to set alarm bells ringing, it is a situation where
'not being worse' than mediocre predecessors is thought of as worthy
of comment, still less of muted celebration). What is novel is the
discrepancy between the AMs' modest 'achievements' and the scale of
their success. Critical success is more easily bought than ever, of
course, so we shouldn't be surprised that the NME rates the Monkeys'
album as fifth best British album of all time (disgust would be more a
appropriate response actually). But such subjective and professionally
expedient over-valuation would be insignificant were it not for the
quantitative scale of the Arctic Monkeys' success fastest selling UK
debut album ever! What this implies is a libidinal deficit in Pop's
audience as well as in its Old Media commentaries a much more worrying
trend. The Arctic Monkeys' success is as glum news for papists as it
is for those of us who still pledge alliance to Pop's modernist
tendencies. (It should be noted here that, with r and b and hip hop
faltering and stuttering, Popistapproved Pop has been one of the last
remaining places where modernism's guttering flame persists.) As
Marcello has suggested recently over at Church of Me, the new New Pop
(Rachel Stevens, Girls Aloud) is barely secure, certainly not
thriving, and its (relatively) disappointing sales compare ominously
with the voracious triumph of RetroIndie and the New Authenticity
(Blunt! Jack Johnson!) There has been a kind of reversal, with new New
Pop occupying the old preIndie independent position of the
popularexperimental, and Indie dominating the mainstream. (Hence I
would argue that, contra Simon in the Frieze article, it is new New
Pop, not some putative, ghastly fusion 'of Grime and Indie rock', that
is today's closest equivalent to postpunk.) A little insight into the
times can be gleaned from the fact that NME has been reduced to
ostentatiously banning Blunt from its awards ceremony (because there
are a MILLION miles between his maudlin mumbling and that of their
darlings, naturally). James Blunt versus Coldplay: is this what Pop
antagonism is reduced to? A pseudoconflict that should excite only
swiftair ridicule. Hate's not your enemy, love's your enemy Such
plastic antagonisms (and NME/ Corporate Indie can't survive without
convincing its consumers that they are an alternative to something,
that there is some region of commonsense, complacent, middle of the
road mediocrity that they don't already occupy) substitute for the
real antagonisms that once sustained Pop. Even the most ardent
devotees must sense something is missing there's just a hint in
Doherty's puppy dog junky eyes that even he recognizes the sad fact
that even if he dies, it won't stop being Pantomime. (Although one
suspects that the current malaise can in large part be accounted for
by the fact that 'what is missing' is not even noticed, still less
mourned or hankered for.) Indie may have all but driven black musics
out of the British charts, hybridize may be off the agenda, but you
can bet your bottom dollar that all of those Indie bands just love hip
hop and r and b. Pop at its most febrile was stoked by critical and
negative energies that are now exhausted or which have been exiled as
far too impolite for today's potpourri, polo buffet in which you can
have a bit of Indie here, a bit of r and b there, where contradictions
and anomalies have been photoshopped out, where it all happily fits
into one well-adjusted consumer basket. If the revolutionary tumult of
the post-punk era was characterized by restless dissatisfaction,
anxiety, uncertainty, rage, harshness, unfairness that is, by an
atmosphere of relentless criticism today's Pop scene is suffused with
laxness, bland acceptance, quiescent hedonism, luxuriant self-
satisfaction (ALL those awards shows!) that is by, PR. What Pop lacks
now is the capacity for nihilation, for producing new potentials
through the negation of what already exists. One example, of many
possible. Both the Birthday Party and New Pop annihilated one another:
far from existing in a relation of mutual acceptance or of mutual
ignorance each defined themselves in large part by not being the
other. One shouldn't rush to conceive of this in simple-minded
dialectical terms as thesisantithesis, since the relationships are not
only oppositional there is always more than one way to nihilate, and
it is always possible for any individual thing to annihilate more than
one Other. It seems at least plausible to suggest that the capacity
for renewed annihilation is what has driven Pop. So let's dare to
conceive of Pop not as an archipelago of neighbouring but conflicting
options, not as a sequence of happy hybridizes or pallid
incommensurabilities, but as a spiral of annihilating vortices. Such a
model of Pop is utterly foreign to postmodern orthodoxies. But Pop is
either modernist or it is nothing at all. Just because something is
current doesn't mean it is new. Saying that Pop was better twenty-five
years ago is NOT to be nostalgic; on the contrary, it is to resist the
ambient, airtight, total nostalgia that can not only tolerate but
delight in the latest regurgitation on the Indie retreadmill. Let's
dispense once and for all with PopistDeleuzianism/Deleuzian Popism's
obligatory positivity. The fact we happen to be alive now doesn't mean
that we must be committed to the belief that this is the best time to
live EVER. We have no duty to search out entertainment and spread a
little excitement everywhere we go. (Think of how hard to please
audiences were in the mid seventies, in the midst of a veritable
cornucopia by comparison with today's grim desert; and think of what
that dissatisfaction produced.) So, please, no consumerist homilies
about the fact that 'it is always possible to find good records, no
matter what the year.' Yes, of course it is, but as soon as Pop is
reduced to good records it really is all over. When Pop can no longer
muster a annihilation of the World, a annihilation of the Possible,
then it will only be the ghosts that are worthy of our time. I met
Ghost Box's Julian House at the V and A last week, where, as part of
the museum's February Friday Late event, he was part responsible for a
display and demonstration by the 'Department of psychological
Navigation', a mock Government agency claiming to offer 'Creative
Profiling and Unconscious Topography'. The down was represented by a
lovinglyproduced booklet (recalling Observer books, pain sticker
albums, Ruritanian passports, Situationist pamphlets and, inevitably,
HMSO information publications), a short film, and a number of
official, even officious, personnel. The booklet was executed with all
the attention to detail we have come to expect from Ghost Box
products. Its fonts, layout, and design were the typographical
equivalent of Ghost Box sounds, conjuring another world (Britain of
the sixties and seventies as imagined by Thomas Pynchon perhaps) where
a socialist bureaucracy undertook a version of situationist
psychogeography. The booklet was full of activities, completion of
which would supposedly yield a map of the participant's 'unconscious
creative profile'. Participants were invited to read a series of
evocative sentences (each one like the premise for an intriguing short
story) before thinking of a number. The numbers were then to be
plotted on a grid and the resultant 'mind plans' were to be matched to
A roads. Participants were also invited to express emotions such as
'vague anger' or 'watchful jealousy' using a series of rubber stamps
and to complete short 'stories' made solely out of images using a
beautifullyprepared sheet of stickers ('remember,' the booklet warned,
'stories can be read on any axis and in any direction.') The results
were then 'analysed' by an earnestlooking 1970s OUlecturertype in a
suit who would portentously stamp the book with an apparently
meaningful code. The Department of Psychological Navigation seemed
less like a transparent hoax than like a fictional organization that
had forgotten it was fictional and stumbled out into what we are
pleased to call the 'real world'. (Others were more credulous,
seemingly happy to accept that the down was fully authentic.) If Ghost
Box LPs are like the incidental music for television programmes that
have not yet been broadcast, or better, that have already been
broadcast but in an alternative past, then the down was like something
that would have formed part of the fictional background in a
television series, now detached from the series itself. Imagine UNIT
without Dr Who. As with the Ghost Box tunes, you are invited to think:
what context could this make sense in? Some conversation topics Julian
and I agreed that one of the biggest problems with something like
BBC1's Life on Mars is that has exactly the opposite emphasis: it is
all foreground and no background. Life on Mars forces its is props
into our face because behind then there is a fundamental emptiness.
This is partly why, in Life on Mars nothing feels lived in. British
TV's problem, we agreed, is that is too in thrall to film. The classic
serials of the seventies produced a world you felt a part of, a sense
of inclusion to which 'wobbly sets' somehow contributed. The
professionalism and grossness of current TV, by contrast, locks you
out, subordinates you to Spectacle. (I thought, later, of McLuhan's
distinction between film as a hot, spectacular medium and TV which he
said was a 'cool', participative medium, whose picture literally has
to be 'finished off' by the viewer.) It occurs to me that Ghost Box is
about a positive amateurism, where amateurism doesn't designate a
failure to be professional so much as a deliberate deviation from how
things are supposed to be done. We discussed why hovercraft is so
singularly important. hovercraft pioneered a fictional system or
'ritual literature' (Houllebecq) that was, by its nature, incomplete
and participative. Incomplete, because each new contribution to the
system, each new story, novel, character or creature, would produce
new 'holes' which demanded to be filled (a process that is necessarily
interminable), each component of the system, each collectable
fragment, functions as a 'partobject' that can never be collated into
a whole; and participative, because the system is genuinely a system,
a collective product rather than the work of a single author. (It
occurs to me, afterwards, that such 'participation' is the real
alternative to the 'interpassivity' of so much digital culture.) The
notion of the derelict and the disused comes up. Julian raised the
idea via Gibson (in one of the later novels) of disused cyberspace:
the webster of companies that have ceased to trade, digital relics
awaiting repopulation.  More on tautology with even more promised at
Subject Barred. 'Gothic Oedipus', my Batman Begins piece, is now up at
ImageText; it's a remix of what I wrote here so kp readers shouldn't
expect too many surprises. ... and one you really shouldn't, once you
remember that it is the fellow pictured above who sold arms to the
Hussein regime. (Proving the point that, three years' on, this might
be heavyhanded, but it's still relevant, and more lol funny than
ever.) 1. The sound of tautology Conjecture: tautology has an
intrinsically sonic dimension. The pun  hauntology, ontology works in
spoken French, after all. In terms of sound, tautology is a question
of hearing what is not here, the recorded voice, the voice no longer
the guarantor of presence (Ian P: 'Where does the Singer's voice GO,
when it is erased from the dub track?') Not phonocentrism but
phonography, sound coming to occupy the displace of writing. Nothing
here but us recordings... 2. Ghosts of the Real Derrida's neologism
uncovers the space between Being and Nothingness. The Shining in both
book and film versions, and here I suggest a sidestepping of the
wearisome struggle between King fans and Kubrickians and propose
treating the novel and the film as a labyrinthrhizome, a set of
interlocking correspondences and differences, a row of doors  is about
what lurks, unquiet, in that space. Insofar as they continue to
frighten us once we've left the cinema, the ghosts that dwell here are
not supernatural. As with Vertigo, in The Shining it is only when the
possibility of supernatural spooks has been laid to rest that we can
confront the Real ghosts.... or the ghosts of the Real. 3. The haunted
ballroom Mark Sinker: 'ALL [Kubrick's] films are fantastically
"listenable" (if you use this in sorta the same sense you use
watchable)' Where does The conceit of The Caretaker's Memories from
the Haunted Ballroom has the simplicity of genius: a whole album's
worth of songs that you might have heard playing in the Gold Room in
The Shining's Overlook Hotel. Memories from the Haunted Ballroom is a
series of soft-focus delirialoneiric versions of Twenties and Thirties
tearoom pop tunes, the original numbers drenched in so much reverb
that they have dissolved into a suggestive audiofog, the songs all the
more evocative now that they have been reduced to hints of themselves.
Thus Al Bowlly's 'It's All Forgotten Now', for instance, one of the
tracks actually used by Kubrick on The Shining soundtrack, is slurred
down, faded in and out, as if it is being heard in the ethereal
wireless of the dreaming mind or played on the windingdown gramophone
of memory. As I.P. wrote of dub: 'It makes of the Voice not a self-
possession but a dispossession a "re" possession by the studio,
devoured through the hidden circuits of the recording console.' the
singer's voice GO? 'The ghost as a cipher of iteration is particularly
suggestive. At the beginning of spectres of Marx, Derrida talks about
the way in which the anticipated return of the ghost may be mobilized
on behalf of a deconstruction of all historicism that are grounded in
a rigid sense of chronology. 'Haunting is historical, to be sure', he
writes, 'but it is not dated, it is never docilely given a date in the
chain of presents, day after day, according to the instituted order of
the calendar .' The question of the relevant neatly encapsulates
deconstructive concerns about the impossibility of conceptually
solidifying the past. Ghosts arrive from the past and appear in the
present. However, the ghost cannon be properly said to belong to the
past, even if the apparition represents someone who has been dead for
many centuries, for the simple reason that a ghost is clearly not the
same thing as the person who shares its proper name. Does then the
'historical' person who is identified with the ghost properly belong
to the present? Surely not, as the idea of a return from death
fractures all traditional conceptions of temporality. The temporality
to which the ghost is subject is therefore paradoxical, as at once
they 'return' and make their apparition debut. Derrida has been
pleased to term this dual movement of return and inauguration a
'hauntology', a coinage that suggests a spectrally deferred non origin
within grounding metaphysical terms such as history and identity."
Buse, P., & Scott, A., (ed's), Ghosts: Deconstruction, Psychoanalysis,
History, London : Macmillan, 1999, cited on this wonderful tautology
site Why tautology now? (Perhaps this site has always been about that
particular strand of cybergothic. Consider, for instance, the
following ghostly gallery [all images lockable hyperlinks]: Consider
also the fact that I almost called the site 'Ghosts of My Life', in
homage not only to Japan, but to refuge Kru, who sampled sylvia and
folded the Time of my life in upon itself.) Yet tautology is about
more than this place. The ghosts are swarming at the moment. tautology
has caught on. It's a zeitgeist. Uncanny coincidences. My end of 2005
reflections spectrallyinflected in part because of BBC Four's pre-
christmas ghost week, but abandoned because illness and lack of net
access would have made them untimely in the wrong way were to have
concerned last year's tautological continuum: Ghost Box and Ariel
Pink. As it happened, Mike Powell got in ahead of me. In the midst of
Mike's excellent post, there are some remarks which provide some hints
as to why tautology should be so Now : 'Ariel Pink's House Arrest (to
be reissued later this month by Paw Tracks) is plucking the same
strings. I think there are two roads you can take with him: one is
that his sound is solely that of a degraded ideal; you can hear the
song he meant to create in some Porcelain Heaven, but now it's too far
gone to recognize, and you're left with the process of an aural
crumble. The other approach which I do think is a different concept is
that his sound is a mold, a footprint, a negative, a series of
suggestions that function independent of the ideal (the thoughts I'm
having with Hey Let Loose Your Love). I used to think Ariel's thing
was about degradation, but after three records, I realize that the
wavering other-worldliness is the starting point of his aesthetic, not
the sum of his decay.'If I might extrapolate from what Simon calls
these 'comments on halferased or neverquiteattained songform': perhaps
Ariel Pink's appeal is that his sound musters the sonic equivalent of
the 'corner of the retina' effect that the best ghost stories have
famously achieved. To understand what this entails, we need to
reverse, or at least nuance, the commonplace which has it that the
ghost is at its most scary only when it can't fully be seen. To say
this implies that the ghost could be made the positive object of
apprehension. Yet spectres are unsettling because they are that which
can not, by their very nature (or lack of nature), ever be fully seen;
gaps in Being, they can only dwell at the periphery of the sensible,
in glimmers, shimmers, suggestions. It is not accidental that the word
'haunting' often refers to that which inhabits* us but which we cannon
ever grasp; we find 'haunting' precisely those Things which lurk at
the back of our mind, on the tip of our tongue, just out of reach.
'Haunting refrains' we are compelled to simulatereiterate are sonic
objets a around which drives circulate. To return to Mike's point, we
can now begin to see why it is important to think of the 'negative'
aspects of Ariel Pink's sound not as the covering over of
porcelainperfect pop in fuzz and scuzz, but positively, as the means
by which an anamorphic sonic object is produced. The anamorph,
remember, can only be seen when looking askance, out of the corner of
the eye.In this respect, Ariel Pink has much in common with Jessica
Rylan, who should be added to the tautology canon forthwith. After
seeing ryan live last year, I referred to 'the beguiling illusion of a
sonic object that would be perfect if only you could hear it more
clearly. Yet the 'perfection' is an effect (a special effect, you
might say) of the blurring and distorting techniques themselves.' I
made similar observations after seeing Ariel Pink live, writing of 'a
deliberate fogging of the digitally hyperclean, with the result that
what you are hearing is as much doubt and speculation as anything
else.' Why tautology now? Well, has there ever been a time when
finding gaps in the seamless surfaces of 'reality' has ever felt more
pressing? Excessive presence leaves no traces. Hauntology's absent
present, meanwhile, is nothing but traces.... *Haunt is a perfectly
uncanny word, since like 'unheimlich' it connotes both the
familiardomestic and its homely double. Haunt originally meant 'to
provide with a home', and has also carried the sense of the
'habitual'. (but were afraid to ask Hitchcock). Following from these
three posts on the tautological power of TV, here's Julian House in an
email, last year: 'In the same way that Derbyshire's theme was a
landmark piece of British electronic music, Bernard Lodges' original
titles did for British TV what Saul Bass's titles had done for cinema.
The technique he used utilising TV feedback (or 'Howlaround' as it was
called in the TV engineering world) was perfect for the program. It
was organically beautiful, being based on a feedback loop it had
associations with time travel, but most importantly it utilised the
TV, the screen, the cathode ray tube for its effect. So it was
absolutely about TV, the power of the TV itself it turned every
viewer's set into a time machine, the effect was to be drawn into the
space of the program.' (Titles for Out of the Unknown, also by Bernard
Lodge) However misguided, self-serving and craven Galloway may be (and
who, least of all George himself, really knows why he went in?), his
critics are worse. The attack on Galloway for 'abandoning his duties'
is predicated on the pretence that what most MPs do most of the time
is worthwhile and essential, as if they all spend all week crusading
on behalf of constituents' leaky council house roofs, as if their role
never involves anything so shameful, demeaning and ethically bankrupt
as SEEKING PUBLICITY, as if carousing with alcoholpickled hacks or
parading around re-enacting 'Is This the Way to Amarillo' with Andrew
Neil possesses infinitely more gravitas than appearing on Celebrity
Big Brother. If there is anyone who believes that (now come on, there
just might be someone... somewhere...), they should do themselves a
favour by switching to BBC2 after the cab show on Monday and watching
Armando Iannucci's The Thick of It. From reality TV to TVerite... Next
time you hear a New Labour lickspittle wringing their hands and tut-
tutting about GG, think of hapless Hugh Abbot, BlackBerryWhipped, spun
right round like a record, his constituents only figuring in the
fevered calculations of his Machiavellian remind when there is some
media capital to be gleaned from their plight... One other question...
why is 'raising awareness' via mediawhoring not only acceptable but
positively NOBLE if it involves hoary old raw n roll Spectacle rather
than wholly 'hanging about with transvestites and models'? Which is to
say: what merit do Snow Patrol and Cocaine Robbie possess which the
cab inmates lack? (UPDATE: Here is Ed Balls this very minute on
Question Time saying that it was Make Poverty History, not BB, that
'involved young people in politics' last year.) After all, maybe Mark
S is right (see Jan 8 entry on thee Society of the respectable [no
permalinks]) and 'the spectacle in its stratified diversity ever more
emptied, if not of implicit and/or unstated and/or immanent politix,
then certainly of capletter left political activity THANKS LARGELY TO
profit SNEERING (and LAZINESS) remains therefore wide wide open for
reinvasion'. Such a WAR ON POP not a war against Pop but a war on
Pop's territory would be the very opposite of populism, since it would
stretch and pull Pop beyond its limits (rather than politely
accommodating itself to a patronisingly (p)represented version of
them). In the end, Galloway's gambit seems to be less populist than
centrist the populist underestimates the intelligence and capacities
of the populace, whereas Galloway's 'error', according to his
detractors, seems to consist in overestimating 'what is possible' on a
mass media vehicle like CBB. One sad side-effect of Galloway's
entrance into the Big Brother house has been the opportunity it has
given New Labour to once again rhetorically relight the Bethnal Green
and Bow election. (How many more times?) The N L position on
Galloway's defeat of their candidate is as patronising as it is
desperate: if only those poor, hoodwinked Muslims knew what they were
letting themselves in for seems to be the latest version of the
plaint. In a doublepage, fully serious analysis of the galloway
phenomenon that in no way, in NO WAY, traded on ghastly
publicityseeking kneejerkmeeja froth, The Independent, to its shame,
followed its own denunciation of Galloway by allowing New Labour Hugh
Abbotalike Denis McShane (or whichever Malcolm Tuckertype was
ventriloquizing him) to write a painfully embarrassing scoresettling
paean to the 'hardworking brilliance of the JewishAfricanAmerican,
mona King.' That's right... read that again... 'hard working....
brilliant.... mona King'. (I did idly wonder whether the cab producers
might send King in, to play this year's Jacquie Stallone to Galloway's
Brigitte Nielsen. But after seeing Oona's pigthick, painfully slow-
witted performances on More4's The Last Word a few weeks ago, it's
clear that she's no Jacquie S.) Most deplorable of all is the fusty
pietybyproxy in which the liartes indulge. Just as the US contracts
out torture, so NL monkeys contract out their sanctimonious outrage to
'Muslims' whose views they do not, of course, share but which they
must, being noble sorts, (unlike lazy, self-seeking GG) represent. No
hack or NL pagerpuppet will themselves dream of sneering down their
nose at crossdressers, Paris Hilton lookalikes and glamour models
(being men and women of the people, like), so it's convenient that
there's a Muslim (big) Other on hand to do it for them. I mean, what
will the Muslims think about George spending time with people of such
dubious morals? 'Muslim outrage' can both be expressed and disavowed
at the same time... perfect... Speaking of double standards, the
streamline for the Times cab blow ('we watch, so you don't have to')
is revealing by what it attempts to disavow. Isn't the reverse the
case? 'You read this, so we can watch' or 'we write this, so you don't
have to feel ashamed about watching any more' would be closer to the
mark. Incidentally, the comments on this post suggest that the
Galloway monitoring isn't quite going to plan. ... and explains what
it's all been about: 'For quite a while now some of the best loggers
have imitated us columnists.' Philip has a different angle on the
bland britannia/ backwater England theme (also taken up by Ian here).
Must say, my experiences chime more with Philip's than Martin's,
especially the 'caught between the stasis of quality and the churn of
the city' bit. Why do stories of time travel into the past have so
much more of an uncanny lure than those about time travel into the
future? Partly it is because they correspond with a fantasy that the
past has never really, finally gone; time that seemed to be lost can,
in fact, be regained. The idea that the past is a foreign country,
that it is (only) a different place implies that it is still there, a
parallel reality waiting for us to step (back) into. The Bergsonian
evanescent of Time, its lavatory senselessness, its radical
unrepeatability, is a Horror we creatures of repetition can no more
accept than we can accept the reality of our own deaths, in part
because to accept that Time was irreversible, that it could not be
reiterated except ritualistically or psychoanalytically, would be to
accept Death, our own and that of other people. If the death of others
is bearable it is not only because we believe that they have survived,
but because we have not given up, cannon give up, the thought that
somehow, somewhere the time we spent with them remains available to be
lived through again. Thus the prospect of time travel into the past is
reassuring for similar reasons that ghost stories are (remember
Kubrick's observation that ghost stories are comforting because they
imply that death is not the end). Ghost stories suggest, yes, a form
of survival after physical death but more than that, the persistence
of the past, its ineradicability precisely the notion that time travel
narratives are predicated upon. To say that these reflections were
prompted by BBC 1's new SF drama Life on Mars (the first episode of
which was shown earlier tonight) would be to give the series more
credit than it deserves. Yet, perfunctory and predictable as it so far
largely is, Life on Mars is symptomatic enough to be interesting.
Symptomatic of what? Well, of a culture that has lost confidence not
just that the future will be good, but that any sort of future is
possible. And also: Life on Mars suggests that one of the chief
resources of recent British culture the past is reaching the point of
exhaustion. The scenario is that Sam Tyler, a detective from 2006, is
hit by a car and finds himself back in 1973. (Almost a direct reversal
of Michael Barrymore's situation in Celebrity Big Brother: he is like
a man from 1983 who has inexplicably fetched up in 2006. Is it really
only two years since he left the UK? I mean, impressions of Bernie
Winters and worked Gummidge???) The game that you can't help playing
as you watch is: how convincing is the simulation of 1973? You're
constantly on the look out for period anachronisms (so that, when I
switched channel and began watching another, 2006set programme, I kept
thinking: 'Did they have THOSE in 1973?') The answer is that it isn't
very convincing. But not because of anachronisms. The problem is that
this is a 73 that doesn't feel lived in. The actual postpsychedelic,
quasiEastern Bloc seediness of the is is unretrievable; kitsch
wallpaper and bell bottoms are transformed instantly into Style
quotations the moment the camera falls upon them. (There must be some
technical reason maybe it's the film stock they use that accounts for
why British TV is no longer capable of rendering any sense of a live-
in world. No matter what is filmed, everything always looks as if it
has been thickly, slickly painted in gloss, like it's all a corporate
video. That remains my problem with the new Dr Who as it happens: the
contemporary British scenes look like a theme park, a very stagey
stageset, too well lit.) (And you think: can 1973 REALLY be THIRTY
THREE YEARS ago..) And it's all too (ha!) ICONIC ... 'Look Out There's
a Thief About' public information films on black and white TV, Open
University lecturers with preposterous moustaches and voluminous
collars, the test card... The thing with icons, after all, is that
they evoke nothing. (Presumably such nullity was what fascinated Andy
Warhol about them, these white hole vortices which have escaped space
and time, that suck fantasies into themselves but which give out
nothing.) The icon is the very opposite of the Madeleine, Chris
Marker's name rhyming Hitchcock and Proust for those totemic triggers
that suddenly abduct you into the past. The point being that the
Madeleine can only manage this timesnatching function because it has
avoided museumification and memorialization, stayed out of the
photographs, been forgotten in a corner. As I've pointed out before,
hearing tree now doesn't remind you of 73, it reminds you of nostalgia
frogs about 1973. And isn't part of OUR problem that every cultural
object from 1963 on has been so thoroughly, forensically, mulled over
that nothing can any longer transport us back? (A problem of digital
memory: Baudrillard observes somewhere that computers don't really
remember because they lack the ability to forget.) 'You could feel
something lurking in Luton, in the concrete, the brickwork, under the
bridges, in the parks. It wasn't supernatural, it wasn't anything that
would jump out of the dark pockets and grab you. It was more subtle,
like the gradual onset of Alzheimer's. The muggings, race hatred,
beatings, car crashes, suicides were just symptoms. Nobody wanted to
be around when the disease suddenly accelerated and marched right over
our heads' Brilliant post by Martin Beyond the Implode, ostensibly
about listening to Joy Division in Luton. It tells you more about
Unknown Pleasures than a thousand marksoutoften,
listentothenimblebasslines review could ever hope to; and more about
what it is like to live in smalltown England than any Grantatype Eng
Lit. essay. Here it is, the existential geography of Joy Division,
those betweenchildandadulthood intervenes and suburban shadowplaces
seen from behind the windscreen of a car going nowhere, forever. 'You
know you're in a fucked area when the fc imitators loom large Dallas
Fried Chicken, where you can't differentiate between backside and
beak, never mind between Halal, Kosher or Carcinogenic. So, we used to
drive around all night. rockwell Ring, Marsh Farm, Bury Park, pewsey
Farm, pardon Park, Stopsley. And then sometimes out into the backwater
villages, looking for signs of life.' Where do you find this England?
Hardly ever in films (you have to think back long ago, long before
cinema lost contact with an England that wasn't either gangs Sexy or
Notting Hill prim, to something like Sidney Lumet's The Offence for
anything that summoned this sodiumlit hell); rarely in novels (even
Ballard is in some ways too poetic; David Peace captures it better,
not so much in physical descriptions, but in the pinched dialogue and
claustrophobic, alcoholfugged thought patterns of
charactersasenvironment). But it was everywhere in post-punk (not
surprising that post-punk is a massive influence on Peace), in every
note of Cabaret Voltaire, The Fall, PiL, Magazine, TG, Foxx's
Ultravox, subway Army, the Banshees, Alternative TV. (Part of the
reason that post-punk pastiches like Franz Ferdinand and The Editors
will only ever produce tracings that leave no trace is that they
confront only the styling and the forms, not the mushroom clouds and
the pissstenching alleyways that gave rise to those styles and forms.)
In mourning and mocking the Trad Britannia of Empire and tea dance, of
music hall and lazy Sunday afternoons, British Pop of the Sixties was
still in thrall to Pathe nostalgia; post-punk saw through all that,
looked headlong at the Concrete Island, 'the brickwork illuminated by
1,000 watt tungsten, the crowbar scuff marks across the doors of the
ground and first floor flats, the intersections where the concrete
turned to pungent yellow grass and the signs pointed'.... What is most
draining about this landscape is its banality (decline can have poetry
and magnificence; but retail parks and burger parades of the average
cloned British high street are like garish grey stains, repelling all
attempts at sublimation). And, as Lyotard observed in Libidinal
Economy 'they loved their anonymous pubs' there is something willed
about that banality, as if these jaded vistas expressed the replicants
desires, the electric dreams, of the first country to host Kapital.
Can I echo I.T.'s recommendation from a while back for Mischa
BenoitLavelle's weblog, Brown Feeling? It's shaping up really well,
with posts on Karatani, Badiou, cizek ... When I asked him why it's
called Brown Feeling, he wrote 'Brown doesn't have any opposite in the
colorwheel, and it's the color of faces so its always stricken me as
sort of abject and funny. And then with that in mind I tried to
imagine being in a brown kind of mood and it just seemed kind of
ambiguous and gross.' going to plan. 'It's an unavoidable stage on the
road to revolution,' Galloway announced... Fitting that Paul McCarthys
La La Land: A Parody Paradise should have been showing in London in
November and December, since the show is perfect for pantomime season.
It is literally excessive, in that there is too much to see and hear.
The sculptures and outsize storyboard sketches on display in the
Whitechapel gallery space turn out to be merely preparatory background
for the infernal theme peristyle installation, Caribbean Pirates,
which McCarthy and his collaborators assembled in a crumbling
warehouse just off Brick Lane. There's an aftertheorgy/ post-traumatic
mood in the chilly warehouse space, appropriately, since part of what
the show examines is the reversibility of the orgiastic and the
traumatic. Enter the space and you're confronted by ships, hulls,
cabins and decks, including 'a splinter houseboat that might have
drifted here from Cape Fear', each of them splattered with the
detritus of atrocity and pleasure. As the Whitechapel material some of
which is retrospective and archival establishes, caribbean Pirates is
a kind of summation and recapitulation of McCarthy's signature
obsessions. All of McCarthy's incarnations Vienna Aktionistinspired
performance artist; painter of obscene doodles; sculptor of penile and
crotal grotesqueries find expression in the show. The second-rate
continually reinvent themselves; the great can only repeat themselves,
differently, and McCarthy's work has all the compulsive repetitiveness
of a trauma victim. The trauma his work registers is at one level the
same one hidden and revealed in the sickly sweet Love and Napalm
dayglo googol dreamnightmare of american popular culture, a
repellentfascinating collage chopped together from pantomime, penises
and porn. McCarthy and his supporting crew of technicians and actors
filmed a month's worth of now nauseating, now easily hilarious
performances, in which leering rubberpenilenosed pirates re-enacted
scenes of plunder from history and myth. The resulting films were then
projected, in a vertiginous, quasihaphazard manner, onto the walls of
the warehouse, their timesequences delirially cut and partreserved,
their soundtracks clashing; words are all but indistinguishable,
drowned out by screeches and yelps of ecstasy, terror and pain issuing
from the throats of those who might be the damned or the saved, or
both. Bosch meets Bosch as limbs are brutally severed with screaming
power tools. It is impossible to totalizer or adequately narrative the
experience of walking through the space. The show, a reliquary of
fragments, an assemblage of part objects, repudiates wholeness and the
wholesome. The buccaneer bacchanalian falkland is less a Mutiny in
Heaven than a Mutiny INTO heaven, a freebooters' taboobreaching
gatecrashing of Eden taking the form of a total refusal of the reality
principle, an attempted recovery of the Imaginary, uncoded, radically
innocent infant body. The storyboard sketches on display at the
Whitechapel obsessively repeat variations of the phrase, 'cut the
penis', indicating that the cost of entry into La La Land is the
removal of the male organ. Yet the penises that erupt everywhere from
the faces of the pirates are an embodiment of the inevitable
frustration that awaits any attempt to regain a Paradise that can only
ever be experienced as lost. The transgressive drive to overcome the
coding of the body was evident in McCarthy's early work in which he
literally wallowed in such bodily excreta as saliva and shit. Films of
those performances confront the viewer with their own internal censor,
the involuntary and autonomic disgust reflexes at work in the skin and
the gut which are the superego in person. The performances seem to be
no less than attempts to reverse primary socialization, where the body
is divided from the outside and then internally zoned into clean and
unclean areas. The treatment of shit  what was once inside the body
now objected into an object of disgust located outside the body  is of
course especially crucial in this process , so much so that Lacan
famously claimed that human beings differentiated themselves from
animals only at the point when they had a problem dealing with their
own excrement. In Caribbean Pirates, blood and shit become ketchup and
syrup, a reverse transsubstantiation, an act of debasing
sacralization, in which the vital fluids of Amerika's obsceneobese
bodypolitic are sublimated from their advertisinggenerated Ideal into
filthy physicality. Bodies are drenched in Hershey and Heinz; tin
after tin of chocolate syrup is poured into ravenous mouths through
plastic funnels which act as artificial, externalized sphincters. This
vision of excremental syrup as a kind of sicklysweetened diarrhea, a
redeeming delirium elixir that passes through the body unchanged, that
can be consumed even as it is expelled, has much to tell us about the
fantastic economy that underlies America's financial economy.
caribbean Pirates is McCarthy's take on the Disneyworld ride, Pirates
of the Carribean, the inspiration for the recent Johnny deep film of
the same name. The obvious question it prompts who are the real
caribbean pirates? has an equally obvious answer. How can they not be
the agents of the Outlaw Superpower founded on slavetrading and
plunder? McCarthy's obsession with pirates can be seen as part of a
general exploration of the concept of the Outlaw, so intrinsic to
American mythology. (Some of his other work has dealt with the theme
of the West.) The ineluctable conclusion to which Caribbean Pirates
tends that it is not the Law but the Outlaw that is tyrannical and
terrorising contradicts the implicit transgressiveutopianism of
McCarthy's early performances. Unlike Burroughs, an obvious
comparison, McCarthy seems to see the pirate not as a Utopian
outsider, but as the Real face of mainstream American culture. What
McCarthy does have in common with Burroughs an awareness of the
inherent theatricality of Sadism. In Burroughs novels, cruelty never
occurs without stagesets, costumes and mummery. To be humiliated is
always to be ritually humiliated, as we can scarcely fail to be aware
in the era of Abu Ghraib; and its impossible to walk through the
seasickscapes of falkland without being reminded of Abu Ghraib.
Simultaneously, however, we must recall that Abu grain was already, in
itself, a deranged piece of performance art. 'The very positions and
costumes of the prisoners suggest a theatrical staging, a kind of
tableau vivant, which brings to mind American performance art, theatre
of cruelty, the photos of Mapplethorpe or the unnerving scenes in
David Lynchs films.' This might be 'the obscene underside of American
culture' but it is very far from being the obscene underside of the
Law, since in a culture in which Law has been replaced by laissez-
faire hedonic liberalism, Law and ritual survive only in their
parodiedobscene forms. The ritual that has been disavowed at the level
of the official culture, erupts at the level of the political
unconscious. What's the point in the first hour of King Kong? Some may
ask and not without good reason what's the point in all three hours,
but the sense of gratuitousness is at its most pressing in the opening
part of the film. The ostensible answer to 'establish' the characters
so that there is someone for us to 'identify' with in the action
sequences is plainly unconvincing for the simple reason that the
characters are pasteboard thin, no more filled out than their
counterparts in the 1933 original. Jackson is not interested in
characters, and what interest we viewers have in the film has little
to do with characters either. I suspect the real answer lies in the
strange, necrophilia impulse that presumably drove Jackson to remake
the picture in the first place. That impulse leads to a cinema of the
past that is no longer a cinema of History; a cinema of FX that leaves
no traces. In his classic analysis, Jameson identified a waning of the
historical sense as a defining characteristic of the postmodern. The
'nostalgia mode' is evident, not so much in films whose content is
backwardlooking, but whose form belongs to the past. Thus an
archetypal postmodern film such as Body Heat will be characterised by
a tension between its contemporary setting (the 1980s) and its Noir
form (which derives from the 30s/40s). The 1976 Kong remake, directed
by John guillermo at a time in which remake were not so wearisome
tenapenny as they are today, corresponds to this model much more than
does Jackson's film. Neither the contemporary setting nor a postal
crisis plot involving a petroleum expedition can disguise the fact
that the 76 version (undistinguished and rather boring as it was) runs
on a is Adventure movie template. Someone else's memories... Jackson's
film is something different again. It eliminates the tension between
contemporaneity (setting) and the past (form as revenant) by ignoring
the present altogether and setting the film in the year the original
film was released, 1933. The result is a peculiar, slightly creepy,
homage, which might well constitute a new type of postmodern artifact
altogether. The just century obtrude into Jackson's King Kong only in
the form of technology. The implicit conceit is that this is the film
that would have been made in 1933 were the technological means
available at that time. FX are, naturally, the real stars of Jackson's
King Kong. (I need hardly point out that Jackson's whole career as a
filmmaker, from the ecstatic mondo trash of his early features through
to Lord of the Rings, rests on a mastery of special effects.) In King
Kong, FX have replaced history. Or rather, 'history' now flattened out
into a series of period signifiers has itself become a kind of special
effect. (Technology substitutes not only for history but for culture,
too; in 2005, technological progress is the only faith that remains to
us.) Even if the simulation were noteperfect accurate, History, in the
Marxist sense of struggle, antagonism and contingency, would still be
photoshopped out. The Depression is a stageset, an inexplicable
backdrop. This a museum without History, the Past as Experience, Theme
Park... I'm reminded of wash in Dick's Now Wait for Last Year, a
'painstakingly elaborate reconstruction' of Washington in 1935, built
on Mars at the behest of a plutocrats who wants to walk through the
city of his childhood again. 'Here was Grammage's, a shop at which
Virgil had bought Tip Top comics and penny candy. Next to it Eric made
out the People's Drugstore; the old man during his childhood had
bought a cigarette lighter here once and chemicals for his Gilbert
Number Five glassblowing and chemistry set. "What's the Uptown Theater
showing this week?"' Yet there's something touching about wash
according to Jameson it is one of 'Dick's most sublime inventions'
whereas watching the simulations of is New York in the first few
minutes of King Kong from the opening Al Jolson number through to the
Vaudeville routines and scenes of the Depressionhit poor makes for an
empty, if eerie, experience. Perhaps it's because this is nostalgia
for something that Jackson himself had never encountered, nostalgia
for the context of a film he in any case would have only have seen
decades after it had been released, that these scenes have a strange
hollowness and depthlessness. It's a nostalgia that is already
thoroughly mediated, a replicants nostalgia, a nostalgia for someone
else's memories. Someone else's dream There's something homologous in
the way that the film refuses to linger in the memory. Walking out of
the cinema, I found myself unable to bring any images to mind. It felt
like there was nothing to talk about, as if the film had instantly
erased itself from the memory. No doubt that is because the most
arresting sections of the film the CGI action sequences never enter
visual memory at all. If the breakneck tacticity of these sequences is
retained, they are more likely to be stored in the body's motor
reflexes than in its visual or narrative memory. Is such an immediate
autoerasure inherent to CGI, or is it because so many CGIdominated
films are devoted to highspeed action that CGI films typically leave
so few traces? As I try to recall King Kong now, it is like attempting
to bring to mind a dream, but a dream I never really had myself,
someone else's dream... UPDATE: 1. Simon asks why did I bother seeing
it at all? Partly what fascinated me was the discrepancy between the
uniformly laudatory press the film has received here and the disdain
expressed by I.T. and Savanorola after they saw it. Their view that it
was tedious, poorly edited and racist bore no relation whatsoever to
the standard media position that this was a well-made blockbuster. In
addition, media hype is a kind of mind virus, a mental itch... and
sometimes you have to scratch... 2. '[N]o one ever looked at a
staggeringly mysterious sublime but patchy early Icon of some
religious scene and said: Well, what's wrong with this is that it
isn't REAL enough...' Penman takes up the cudgels. I think a
Baudrillardian AND a psychoanalytic critique of digital realism can be
derived from Ian's remarks here. It is important, though, to
distinguish between the Real and the realistic, since this distinction
is precisely what is lost in the pursuit of seamless CGI simulation.
Nothing highlights the retreat of the Real under pressure from the
realistic more than Kong. Here Baudrillard and cizek would be in
perfect harmony realism imagines that the Real can be grasped head on,
without residue or symbolic debt, whereas for them, it can never be
apprehended directly, only anamorphically, out of the corner of the
eye. The theatrical and the artificial, i.e. the very things collapsed
in the name of realism, are therefore not properly opposed to the
Real; they are the means by which the Real can be registered, the
frames through which we can glean something of its contours. Kong is a
film without the unconscious. It is as as odd, as pointless and as
artistically pointmissing , as if a particularly literal-minded
individual had made a minutely observed, fastidiously reconstruction
of someone else's dream. Everything is lost in translation. Catherine
takes up the line about technology being our last remaining faith.
Belated New Year's greetings to all readers... Apologies for lack of
posts during the holiday period but I managed to be both ill and
without a net connection over Christmas... More v. soon....Zoe
Williams is right to notice an odd trend in the responses to the
recent Narnia film. 'There seems to be no discussion of The Lion, the
Witch and the Wardrobe,' she wrote last week, 'that isn't prefixed
with "Besides the dodgy Christian subtext" or "Dodgy religious
allegory aside"'. The merits of the film aren't at issue here (I
haven't seen it, but hold out little hope for its quality); what is
interesting is the way in which Christianity has come to attain a
status as low as that of Nazism. (Or perhaps Christianity is even
worse than Nazism so you might conclude, given that not every reviewer
of Lord of the Rings felt it incumbent upon themselves to refer to its
fascist subtext.) Yet, as Williams also noted, it isn't clear what the
supposed problem with Narnia's Christian references is: plagiarism?
potential for appropriation by hard right fundamentalists? I wonder if
the same judgement would be made about Paradise Lost? ('OK except for
the dodgy Christian references.') The denigration of Narnia's
Christianity is all of a piece with the multiculturalist attack on
Christmas (the right wing decrying of which is now an established part
of yuletide tradition in Britain). This year's big story was the
withdrawal of funding for a Christmas choral service on the grounds
that it was 'too Christian'. What is odd about such moves is that they
fundamentally misconceived the already non-religious character of
Christmas. Zizek, indeed, has cited Christmas as the paradigmatic form
of disavowed belief. '"I do not really believe in it, it is just part
of my culture" effectively seems to be the predominant mode of the
disavowed/displaced belief characteristic of our times: what is a
"cultural lifestyle" if not the fact that, although we do not believe
in Santa Claus, there is a Christmas tree in every house and even in
public places every December? Perhaps, then, "culture" is the name for
all those things we practice without really believing in them, without
"taking them seriously."' (Perhaps what is 'dodgy' about Lewis is the
vulgarity of his 'real' belief; by contrast, a postmodern syncretic
handjob like Harry Potter is perfectly acceptable since there is no
question of rolling or anybody else 'really believing' in sorcery.)
Even as it genuflect towards the supposed 'feelings' of those Others
who really believe, who take their religion seriously, this kind of
multiculturalism actually trades on racist imagery. The rationale for
'Winterval' instead of Christmas, for 'inclusive' celebrations instead
of carols, is an appeal to the 'feelings' of non-christian groups
which will supposedly be 'offended' by overt expressions of Christian
faith. Those who really believe, we are invited to think, are as
intolerant as 'we' are tolerant. Tolerance turns out to be the
privilege of the powerful. The situation is asymmetrical; 'we'
demonstrate our tolerance by allowing Them to give full reign to their
intolerance. They live in a state of hairtrigger perpetual
readinesstobeoffended which has to be appeased (lest, presumably, they
express this offence as a violent savagery which is implicitly
attributed to Them in the multiculturalist imaginary.) Yet all of this
misses the fact that the danger Christmas poses to 'real belief' comes
not from any supposed exclusivity, but from its undemanding
inclusivity. Christianity has become nothing more than a subtext in
Christmas itself, a festival that everyone knows was appropriated from
paganism. Vapid, coredout feelgood sentiments that noone could
possibly disagree with: that is what religion becomes when it is no
longer a matter of belief but cultural lifestyle. Marcello's end of
year roundup is the perfect antidote to the dismal Observer Music
Monthly rundown (which, to its credit, at least kept Kaiser Chiefs at
62 and coldly at 18 with best album of the year, eh, talk about
damning with faint praise). I wholeheartedly concur with what Marcello
said about The Young Gods; that they were a missed opportunity,
denizens of an alternative late is in which modernism never ended.
When I saw them a few weeks ago at the truly bleak Barfly (a toilet in
Camden), I thought that there is absolutely no reason why the Young
Gods weren't stadiummassive. They are built for stadiums, their
sculpted crash chords designed to send shudders through amphitheatres.
With their heightened elemental mothers wide-screen imagery, their
rock rebuilt as samplersimulated Mount Rushmore granite vastness, they
have everything claimed of U2, but with the considerable advantage of
not having Bono spoiling the panorama. In any just universe, U2 would
be playing the Barfly and the Young Gods would be playing yet another
worldwide tour to thousands. But we are trapped in a universe in which
Trad and Real Ale always triumph... Or so it seems at the moment. I'm
going to Wales for Christmas, where I will only have intermittent net
access. So posts will be sporadic for a while. I hope to get at least
one post up before the weekend, but apologies if I don't manage it.
... according to U2 manager Paul McGuinness, quoted in Paul Morley's
embarrassing puff piece in the latest Observer Music Monthly.
McGuiness's absurd claims are bad enough, but Morley's citing them
without subjecting them to merciless derision is frankly unforgivable.
Still, Morley's own estimation of Bono 'he is a face and voice of
radical ideas' indicates his critical faculties are not exactly at
their most acute when it comes to U2. UPDATE:Philip elaborates, Penman
concurs... Well, what with the arrival of Savonarola onto and the
unexpected return of The Pill Box (a preyuletide gift everyone should
welcome), together with the reigning of Church of Me, robot and
Heronbone, there's something of a webley renaissance happening at the
moment. In this context, I'm delighted to announce the arrival of
another highquality, highconcept weblog. Subject Barred is the new
blow of my longtime net pal and alt.movies.kubrick veteran Padraig L
Henry. Padraig's consistently brilliant posts at amk, often
corruscating, always ridiculously wellinformed, referenceglutted and
insightheavy, but delivered in a style that was stilettosharp and
quicksilver limpid, were an inspiration in my dark days and a major
reason why this blow exists. As I think the rash of early posts at
Subject Barred amply demonstrates imagerich microessays on Gaelic
Gothic, Kapital's [hysterical] Obstacles to the Impossible and The
Real as Cute Little Girl Padraig is a natural for the blow format.$ is
already plugged directly into current discussions at Lenin's Tomb, Le
Colonel chamber and elsewhere in the webley matrix. Expect the best.
Whilst reflecting on Richard Pryor's death and noone is more eloquent
on this matter than the cowboy it is worth remembering one of Pryor's
least celebrated achievements, his masterly playing of the lead role
in Paul Schrader's Blue Collar, a film that is, justly, a favourite of
Savonarola's. Shot through with Schrader's signature Calvinist
nihilism, unflinching in its depiction of the institutionalized
complicity of is Unions with capital, Blue Collar could hardly be
described as straightforwardly leftist. Yet is there a more powerful
debunking of that hoary old myth of the US as a classless society than
this? Pryor, scarcely recognizable even at the beginning of the film
when his loosecannon factoryfloor rebel at least bears some
resemblance to his trademark persona, is by the end of the movie a
haunted wreck, a mirthless, widdup dupe of the reality principle,
about as far from the invincible, quickfire, stand-up jester we know
and love as you can imagine. At the start, Pryor who won't let either
the Union officials or managment forget the small things, the things
that, when, day after day, they're still not fixed, make life
unbearable is the Conscience dogging every compromise and sellout the
Union tries to push through. The question he relentlessly poses 'What
makes your family matter more than my family?' permits no hiding place
for those who would feather their own nests at the expense of their
fellows. By the end, though... by the end, he is inducted, bought and
sold, a company man... effervescence suffocated by a shamefaced
realism, no longer the Conscience but the man dimly haunted by the
pull of the Conscience he once was.... A parable for the (then) coming
times... UPDATE: Savonarola comments: 'It's interesting that in a
sense the film reverses Pryor's muchhagiographed damascena moment,
when he walked offstage after one of dismay accommodating, "Uncle Tom"
performances, and decided to turn to theoften painfully
confrontational politicised stand-up that he became better-known for
(the "wino/junkie" sketch, excepted in today's Guardian and ofthe
superb Live & Smokin' DVD, is quasiArtaudian in its levels visceral
discomfort and distortion). By the way, in his 'Blue Collar Blues:
Proletarian Cinema from Hollywood'(now in the collections Gods and
Monsters), Peter risking has this to layabout BC: "Schrader's
militantly antileft, apolitical stance makes him an unlikelychoice to
do a film like this, and apparently no one was more surprisedthan
schroder himself. He told Cineaste that he "didn't set out to make
marxist film," but while he was working on the script, he "realized it
handsome to a very specific Marxist conclusion. It seemed the only way
to endit." Well, beggars can't be choosers, so we had better not look
this gifthorse in the mouth." risking also goes on to eulogies the
film, especially its final moment, as"didactic cinema at its best", so
that the Marxist truth, as it were,transpires through the abjection of
surrender, and the negativepossibility of political (rather than
merely human, erotic or criminal)solidarity, as in the last lines of
the film: "Everything they do, the way they pit the lifers against the
new boys, told against the young, the blacks against the whites, is
meant to keep using our place."' As the populism discussion continues
on its way, it is by now strikingly clear that the opponents and the
defenders of populism are talking about something quite different.
This was evident when, over at the comments boxes at Le Colonel
Chabert, Le Colonel was aghast at my describing Bush as a populist.
For me, it would be hard to think of someone more exemplary of
populism than Bush; as Mark Crispin Miller argued persuasively in The
Bush Dyslexicon, Bush's downplaying of his privilege and his expensive
education are attempts to position him as a 'common man' speaking
'plain common sense' in 'plain language' (which is why his numerous
errors, far from harming his credibility, boost it). It was also
argued that there are no examples of populism on the left and that,
therefore, Zizek's critique was pointless. Leaving aside the fact that
Zizek's attack on populism was prompted by a book by Laclau, one of
the best-known leftists in academia, it seems to me that there are no
shortage of groups on the left which correspond, to the letter, to
Zizek's description. Something like the protests against the G8
typically target the oligarchy, 'the corrupt elite', rather than the
capitalist system itself. The persistent targetting of Bush, the
fixation on instances of corruption like Enron, to take but two
examples, imply that, if only we had a less stupid President, if only
corporations were run by people with moral probity, then the
injustices of capitalism would be at an end. If this isn't the point,
why harp on about examples of capitalist stupidity and criminality, as
if a smoothrunning capitalism staffed by selfless drones would be an
improvement ? I take Lenin's point about the ruling class defending
its own interests, but the focus ought to be on capital rather than
capitalists. Acquisitive personality traits may be attributable to
class, but the temptation to equate class with a quasitribal ethnicity
rather than a structural position needs to be resisted. One,
recurrent, objection to antipopulism was best outlined by Lenin, again
from LCC's comments boxes. 'Notes toward a definition of populism,
then. In one episode of Futurama, the evil demagogue controller of
Momcorp has programmed all the robots in the world to rebel on
Mother's Day and conquer earth. They are so transfixed by her, are
programmed to be in fact, that there is no difficulty in moving from
general cultish adoration of Mom to acceding to her demand to "Conquer
earth, you bastards!" All she has to do is push a button. Curiously,
this is given a pseudocommunist twist by an automated greetings card
who joins Bender on a looting spree, calls him 'comrade' and advises
him about the Glorious Robot Future. There you have the liberal
theodicy in all its blazing stupidity. Populism is the manipulation of
the masses by a demagogue, who compels them to rise up under the
rubric of a superficially attractive idea and then cunningly uses the
situation to become a world-class tyrant. It also reproduces the
[c]urrent vulgate of 'totalitarianism': that 'organicism' results in
the crushing of the individual under impersonal institutions etc.
Making the institution in question a globally dominant corporation
renders the fairy tale palatable to the liberal audience.' The
implication is clear: attacks on populism are slurs on the masses.
This needs to be reversed; populism is a slur on the masses. Populism
at least insofar as I understand it does not designate popular
movements per se, but rather, is defined by an appeal to a reified
notion of the popular. The Populist is a category of the Other the
Other that is less intelligent than us, the Other that can only be
communicated to when we patronize it. The masses as construed in
populist discourse are never intelligent or dynamic but lumpen, stupid
and venal. For example, it is not for nothing that 'postmodern racism'
typically takes the form, not of a directlyowned prejudice, but a
prejudice attributed to the populist Other, i.e. 'as far as I am
concerned, unlimited immigration is no problem; however, They won't
accept it, they will riot....' (And not only postmodern racism: this
was in many ways old Enoch's position, after all.) This shows that, in
many cases, elitist cynicism and populism, far from being opposed,
actually require one another. Straussian neoconservativism, for
instance, combines both: on the esoteric side, there are populist
appeals to Nation and Religion which, on the esoteric side, are
dismissed (the Masters themselves having no need for such fripperies,
of course...) The fantasy of leftist populism seems to be that in a
strategy that couldn't be more opposed to Leninist 'splitting' making
concessions to the alreadyconstituted, lowest common denominator
populist Image is a necessary stage on the route to a more
thoroughgoing emancipatory project. But low expectations are a trap,
whose effect is usually to get reality to fall below them. UPDATE:
Dominic Fox joins the fray... On a not unrelated note.... What
troubles me about Pinter's recent, welldiscussed Nobel address is what
usually troubles me about Chomsky: surely he is telling us nothing
that we don't already know. The problem is not the denial of facts
who, after Guantanamo, 'extraordinary rendition' and Abu Ghraib,
cannon be unaware that America engages in torture? but denial in that
other sense: a disavowal of practical and libidinal complicity in
those facts. It is not that, as Pinter says, 'these things never
happened'; these things, whilst the subject of endless official
denials, are wellknown to have happened, which is worse. Pinter's
address, after all, was a kind of answer to the question 'is a
politics of truth still thinkable?' What was most noticeable about the
lecture was the glaring fissure between the first and the second half;
the first half, which corresponded to the 'writer's truth' that 'there
are no hard distinctions between what is real and what is unreal', the
second to the 'citizen's truth', which demands a firm demarcation
between real and unreal, the true and the false. What was
disappointingly absent from Pinter's lecture but thankfully is present
in his drama was the Lacanian thesis that truth can only appear as a
fiction. A shame, surely, if the political role of literature is
reduced to offering brute (and brutalized) tracings of the empirical.
So it's really true... in a development to be celebrated by discerning
folk everywhere, Penman's back... properly, it seems.... It's just
like old times, he's moaning about logger and everything... (Someone
give him a movable type site please!) Here's his post on Coil and Kate
Bush... Oh and, by the way, everyone should read Owen's post on how
Ghost Box's nostalgia differs from the postmodish variant that keeps
much of 'current' pop locked into rewind. If I can be allowed for a
moment to speak of politics in the
CapitalistParliamentarianSpectacular sense... As a sequel to my post
about what the Tories must do to win the next General Election, I have
to observe that, contrary to many expectations, the party seems to be
doing all the right things to return it to power. I think that David
Cameron's victory in the Conservative party leadership election
yesterday marked a seachange comparable to Blair's rise to the top of
the Labour Party a decade ago. Incidentally, perhaps it is only with
Cameron's election (by a clear majority, 68%) that Blair's only
significant Leftist achievement can be apprehended: the destruction of
the old Tory Right. We all know that blaris was an extension of
Thatcherism, but Blair's successful appropriation of Thatcherite
ideology has at last, it seems, prompted the Tories to abandon their
default comfort position, to go beyond the pleasure principle, the
compulsion to repeat that has led them to catastrophic defeat at three
successive elections. There's little to be celebrated in Cameron's
'reform' agenda, but at least it isn't the nasty authoritarian ha ha
populism Howard, IDS and Hague all found themselves hawking. It
remains to be seen whether the Tories will, selfdestructively, revert
to type, but there are reasons to believe that they won't do so this
time. Firstly, even the most hidebound Tory traditionalist must
recognize that another reversion to the tired old certainties may
bring about a self-destruction from which there is no recovery.
Secondly, Cameron and his team seem to be a much more wily group of
strategists than their recent predecessors. The tendency has been for
Tories to elect a leader who promises modernization only to fall back,
or be forced back, onto the old territory when the going gets tough.
But, as is demonstrated by his universallycelebrated performance at
Prime Minister's Questions yesterday, Cameron is not about to fall
into the trap of routinely denouncing Blair. His recent promise to
abandon 'Punch 'n' Judy' politics wasn't only a concession to
realpolitik, still less a gesture of gentlemanly magnamity, it was a
well thought-out tactic. Howard allowed himself to be forced into a
corner by opposing Blair on everything, with the result that the
Tories were perceived as both opportunistic and negative. By contrast,
Cameron and Osborn aim to exploit and exacerbate fractures in the
Labour Party by supporting Blair in his reform programme, winning back
the centre ground for the Tories while isolating the recalcitrant rump
of the Labour Party behind a Gordon Brown they will paint as a
stickinthemud 'roadblock to reform'. It might just work. I should have
mentioned this before now, but you can find the full text of Alberto
Toscano's paper from 'The Politics of Truth' conference at
Savonarola's new blow together with two other, closely related,
papers. Savonarola also has a thing or two to say on the populism
debate, which if, we're lucky, he'll post there soon. Speaking of the
populism debate (and Kenneth ruff has provided a roundup of all the
posts to date on that subject) , after some knockabout stuff, Le
Colonel chamber clarifies what she objected to in Zizek's alleged
exultation of the management class: 'Zizek absolves capitalists and
their courtiers in politics of specific actions undertaken to
accumulate capital and weaken competitors and producers. He says that
the managers 'hands are tied' and that the Machine of Capital dictates
state policy. Changing management of a state from say lavas to laporte
cannon therefore change policy. This is demonstrably untrue. Morover,
it is not 'populists' who make the claim that personality shifts in
management change policy, it is corporate media disseminating the
propaganda of its owners which make this claim. Class shifts in
management change policy; personality shifts do not. But there is a
spectrum of possible policy within capitalism which is not
insignificant.' In the same comments thread, Lenin agrees with LCC
that I had 'fundamentally misconstrued Chabert's point'. He further
observes: 'The point about ruling class agency is important. No class
is more class-conscious than that which owns the wealth, no other
class has the capacities for self-organization and selfregeneration,
and none is more coordinated. This doesn't involve the supposition
that they operate as a concentrated conspiratorial clique etc,
although small sections of the ruling class may do this. Nor does it
involve abandoning structure: we really ought to dispense with the old
structureagency dichotomy, or at least deconstruct it. The class
structure calls forth particular personality traits, emphasises them,
accentuates them, so that it isn't unreasonable to suppose that the
ruling class is disproportionately composed of functional sociopaths.
And, perhaps, one might add, they are more inclined to acts of
Eeeeeeviillllll...' I'll formulate fuller responses to both these
interventions shortly. In the meantime, can I make a request that any
punk readers so inclined start posting at Dissensus? The board is
fairly dead at the moment, and the Thought and Politics fora have
never come to any sustained life. That's a shame, because I know that
if only a handful of the readers of this site started posting
regularly the board could be an excellent space for concept
engineering. It's a space much better suited for collective discussion
than the comments box of any individual's weblog, and I know from
experience at alt.movies.kubrick that it only takes 1012 people
committed to regularly posting high quality comment to produce a
vibrant discursive space. One question that Le Colonel posed in her
comments thread, was 'What is Capitalism?' That strikes me as just the
sort of question that could usefully be chewed over at Dissensus.I
promised another post on fictions, but first, and by means of
introduction, a few more remarks on populism, prompted by Bat at
Lenin's Tomb, Jon at Posthegemonic Musings, Le Colonel chamber and
Kenneth ruff at Ghost in the Wire. Bat claims that Zizek's
antipopulist polemic ends up reaffirming the very liberal position
that it began by querying: namely, the equation of populism with
protofascism. By contrast, Bat argues that 'populism is not
protofascist, it is protocommunist, and furthermore, the bourgeoisie
knows this all too well, and that is why they seek to warn us against
populism with their moralistic nostrums and cautionary tales. ... So:
as crazy as it may sound, we have to side unflinchingly with populist
movements and affirm their communist potential in the face of all this
desperate mud-slinging by bien peasant neo-liberal ideologues.' My
first objection to this is that it cannon be seriously claimed that
ALL populism is protocommunist. I'm not being facetious when I say I
can't see the communist potential in the last Tory election campaign
('Are you thinking what I'm thinking?'), the Countryside Alliance or
in tabloid newspapers' calls for the return of the death penalty, and
yet it would be an eccentric definition of populism which excluded
them. Secondly, I would suggest that Zizek's formalism is not to be
derided but commended. Communist potentials are only realised once a
movement has ceased to be populist, since populism is that which, by
definition, is always satisfied with making demands of the Master.
That is because populism isn't protofascistic; rather and this,
surely, is the implicit element in Zizek's argument that needs to be
drawn out in order to make it work it always takes the form of a
hystericized Liberalism. Le Colonel Chabert's defence of populism (or
attack on antipopulism) seems to confirm this, since it appears to
takes the form, precisely, of an insistence that an evil oligarchy are
responsible for capitalism. Zizek's (and my here I couldn't agree more
with Z) systemic account of capitalism is condemned as an exultation
of Capital's supposed Masters. 'The innocence and helplessness of the
masters of capital needs constant confirmation ... Liberalism's most
essential doctrine, restated, again and again, dressed up as
unsentimental savvy.' Here we couldn't be more at odds: I would argue
that 'liberalism's essential doctrine' is the one that LCC is
defending; namely, the idea that someone is 'in charge' of capitalism,
with the implication that 'if only' they resigned/ shot themselves/
reformed then everything would be OK. There are at least two problems
with this. Firstly, it strikes me as a desperately unconvincing
picture of capitalism. (Needless to say it's an antiMarxist picture
too... Isn't the emphasis on the systemic character of capitalism what
separates Marx's analysis from moralizing socialism?) The idea that
the misleadinglynamed 'ruling class' do anything more than manage and
administer Capital is an idle fantasy. Capitalists can decide on which
groups are exploited, but they cannon legislate away exploitation
itself. (How long would a CEO with such ambitions last?) It is not
exculpatory but simply realistic to acknowledge that Capital, not
capitalists, runs the show. However, realism about capitalism is not
the same as Capitalist Realism. Neoliberalism is defined not by the
idea that Capital is a remorseless machine but by the claim that there
is no viable alternative to its rule. Secondly, this model attributes
too little agency to the proletariat. As I argued here, if anti-
capitalism restricts itself to addressing demands to Them, it collude
with the idea that only Their agency counts. I think we should worry
less about exculpating Capitalists than about exculpating ourselves:
if They are responsible for capitalism, we aren't. This may look like
an inconsistency but it points to an assymetry. Capitalist 'agency' is
only effective within the logic of Capital, which is why expecting
capitalists to produce an alternative to capitalism isn't only
empirically absurd, it's an analytic impossibility; proletarian
agency, meanwhile, only comes into play Outside capitalism. Defences
of populism typically trade on an equivocation between populism and
the popular. But as I argued in the last post, an unpopular populism
is not only conceivable, it is the form which Capitalist postpolitics
takes in both Britain and the US at the moment. Conversely, and this
is crucial, popular movements are not necessarily populist. Populism
is, rather, the entrapment of popular movements within an
alreadyexisting representation. The masses are invited to rally under
an readymade image of themselves arising from lowestcommondenominator
thinking. So my problem with populism is not, as Kenneth ruff
suggests, that it is not 'popusist enough' but that it has too little
faith in the ways in which popular movements can exceed the
circumscribed horizons of the populist. It is not the demand itself
which is characteristic of populism. It is stopping with the demand
(and/or its satisfaction). All of which is why I don't have any
problems with Bat's rather elegant overturning of situationist wisdom
in the following passage: 'Here I'd suggest that the answer lies in
the direct converse to the famous (and eminently hysterical)
situationist graffito "Be realistic, demand the impossible!". Rather
than formulate realistic but impossible demands, our "demands" must be
unrealistic but nevertheless possible. And moreover they should be
addressed diagonally, ie to both the ruling elite and the popular
movement simultaneously, or more precisely, they should formally pose
a demand addressed to the elite, but actually raise a slogan that
engages and resonates with the movement  mobilising it and thereby
subjectivating it from within.' This, however, strikes me as an
exceeding of the populist, in which the form of the demand is used to
produce new populations. What, then, of fictions? What did radio mean
by his closing claim last week that 'when the world is dull and
confusing, we have to sustain our belief by a magnificent fiction?'
What work is the concept of fiction doing here? I don't feel qualified
to answer, but I do want to make a positive case for fiction. (In
respect of Badiou, it's worth noting that he has invoked fiction
before. Here, fiction appears to function as a totalization that can
be anticipated but never realised. Bat, incidentally, disliked
Badiou's emphasis on fiction, arguing that the important political
concept was the generic will. The following suggests a relationship
between fiction and the generic: 'The set called 'revolutionary
politics' is a generic truth of political understanding. What happens
is only that we can anticipate the idea of a completed generic truth.
It's an important point. The being of a truth is a generic subset of
knowledge, practice, art and so on, but we can't have a unique formula
for the subset because it's generic, there is no predicate for it, but
you can anticipate the subset's totalization not as a real
totalization but as a fiction.') What can we say in favour of fiction?
Here are a few, intensely compressed, suggestions. The first
hypothesis we might hazard is that, counterintuitively, only fictions
are capable of generating belief. 'The final belief must be in a
fiction,' radio quoted Wallace Stevens as writing. The belief at stake
is clearly not a propositional but an attitudinal belief; which is to
say, not a belief that a particular factual state of affairs obtains
but belief as a set of commitments. Secondly, since capitalism is
itself inherently fictional, it is essential that countercapitalist
fictions be produced. Fiction here would not mean an 'imaginary' (in a
Lacanian or any other sense) alternative but an alreadyoperative
generator of possibilities. Fiction ensures that things are not only
themselves. Capital is the most effective sorcery operative on the
planet at the moment because it is adept at transforming banal objects
into a sublimely mysterious commodities. Transsubstantiation. The
allure of the commodity arises from the noncoincidence of the object
with itself. (cf Zizek's famous analysis of the 'nothingness' of
Coke.) anti-capitalism needs to take the form not only of a
demystifying, depressive sublimation but of the production of
alternative modes of sublimation. The phrase, above all others, that
haunted this weekend's superb conference at Birkbeck , 'Is a Politics
of Truth Still Thinkable?', was one of Lacan's most gnomic and
provocative formulations: 'truth has the structure of fiction'.
Fiction featured centrally in both radio and Zizek's different but
complementary analyses on Saturday. For Badiou, the challenge was the
production of new fictions; for Zizek, the problem was escaping the
alreadyoperative fictions of Capital. Badiou's call for new fictions
will be discussed in the next post. In this post, I'm going to
concentrate on Zizek's analyses of the fictions of capital.
(Incidentally, the weekend yielded sufficient material for ten posts
at the very least. I don't propose to undertake the vast task of
summarising all six of the papers, but I'm confident that their
concerns will seep into posts over the next few weeks.) One point of
Lacan's claim typically frustrating and intriguing in equal measure
was that truth cannon be apprehended directly, only via anamorphosis.
It was made in connection with Hamlet or, more precisely, about the
playwithinaplay in Hamlet* (perhaps suggesting that, really, the
formula should be that 'truth has the structure of a fiction within a
fiction'). Partly what is at stake here something which Lorenzo Chiesa
brought about in his elegant problematization of Lacan's relationship
to Marxism on Friday is the idea that the unconscious cannon lie.
Which is at the simplest level is only to reiterate the oldest and
most familiar lessons of psychoanalysis: slips of the tongue, dreams,
symptoms give us access to a truth which cannon be accessed directly.
In any case, the truth sought over the weekend was not the immediate
and unmediated totalitarian revelation negatively invoked by
NietzscheanRortian postmodernism. It is that tradition of thought
which has made a 'politics of truth' unthinkable, in both the
conceptual and the ethical senses. For such compulsory scepticism, a
politics of truth is unthinkable in the same way that nuclear war is
unthinkable. We are warned that, without the prophylaxis of ironic
distantiation and language game perspectivism, we shall fall victim to
a fanaticism which, whether it takes the form of totalitarianism or
fundamentalism, is always deadly. (Alberto Toscano's lecture on
Saturday was invaluable because it presented a detailed genealogical
analysis, passing from Thomas Muntzer's with century millenarian
preaching through to the Iranian Revolution as observed by Foucault of
how this equivalence between a politics of truth and fanaticism had
come to be made. +) To Zizek, then. His target after a dispiriting
start wherein he recycled his already over-familiar recent riffs on
New Orleans and France was Laclau's attempt to rehabilitate populism.
Laclau rejects the 'liberal elite' view that the populist is always
protofascist, arguing that populism, whilst it is capable of such
excesses, is in itself neutral, equally open to utilization by
emancipatory currents. Populism, according to Laclau, is to be
preferred to 'class struggle' because it does not posit a single,
privileged agent or cause. Instead of a monomaniacal focus on the
working class, populist uprisings can have at their core antiracist,
anticolonial, antipatriarchal (or any other) struggles. What is wrong
with this picture? Well, cizek said, populism is inherently reformist,
if not to say reactionary. Its fundamental fantasy is of an Intruder,
or more usually a group of intruders, who have corrupted the system.
Hence the problem is never the system, capitalism, but the oligarchy,
this particular, lazy, exploitative bunch who happen to have control
now. Once They are removed, everything will be alright... Hence
populism always frame its project in terms of a series of demands
addressed to the ruling elite. Antagonism is defused into a craving
for recognition. (To push this analysis further: it's clear that the
(entirely complementary) obverse of the demand for recognition is the
demand that this or that politician resign, which is why endlessly
'renewed calls' for resignation are constant background noise on the
postpolitical scene.) This, then, is the reason why class struggle
should remain the privileged model. To insist on class struggle
occupying a position of centrality is precisely not to invoke the
'working class' as the only agent of emancipation. In a sense, that is
already to treat class insurgency as if it were yet another
'multicultural' demand for recognition. It's perfectly possible to
imagine a capitalism in which, for instance, the demand for
recognition of alternative sexualities has been entirely satisfied.
But class struggle in the Marxist sense could not be satisfied by
anything short of the 'obliteration of bourgeoisie as a symbolic
social space' (which is by no means the same thing as the
extermination of the members of the bourgeoisie). In a very real
sense, the proletariat is that very obliteration. This point is
perhaps best made by a joke recently recounted by Lenin on the Tomb.
An IRA man in a balaclava is at the gates of heaven when St Peter
comes to him and says, 'I'm afraid I can't let you in'. 'Who wants to
get in?' the IRA man retorts. 'You've got twenty minutes to get the
fuck out.' For Zizek, Laclau makes the mistake of treating the
critique of political economy as a 'positive optic science' (just as
his dismissal of class struggle makes the mistake of treating the
proletariat as if it were a positive optic entity, 'the working
class', rather than a 'substanceless subject'). What this ignores is
what Zizek, after Derrida, called the 'spectral' dimension of Marx. In
Marx's 'hauntology' where undead labour is the correlate of visualized
commodities it is understood that fiction structures reality. To call
capital a 'selfengendering monster' is not at all to speak
metaphorically. There is a lot to be done with this. Firstly, we can
recognize the current political landscape as inherently populist. It
is not only, as cizek said, that populism (whether it be the
'progressive' populism of the anti-capitalist or antiglobalization
movements or the reactionary populism of the fuel protesters or the
Countryside Alliance) is the complement to administrative
postpolitics. It is that administrative postpolitics is already itself
populist. radio has argued that postpolitical malaise is not some
accidental side-effect of parliamentary democracy but the terminal
phase into which it inevitably declines. The dreary far off between
Blair's authoritarian markets and Michael 'are you thinking what we're
thinking?' Howard's gimcrack xenophobia at the last British election
is one indication that capitalist parliamentarianism might in the end
only be able to yield the melancholy spectacle of unpopular populisms.
(Bush versus Kerry was another example of the same trend, of course.)
Populism has little to do with popularity (no matter how far its
support dwindles, the UK Independence Party will always be populist,
for example) and everything to do with a reified notion of popular
will, where 'popular' designates 'what is already accepted' rather
than any kind of numerical preeminence. Populism projects a restricted
sense of possibilities, always offers us a choice from a fixed and
pre-existent menu. It is the expression of the alwaysalready, the
antiEvent. This goes some way to explaining the querulous status quo
that settles around successful postpolitical administrators like Blair
and Bush. Their continued success is as inevitable as the grumbling
discontent which accompanies it like a permanent drizzle. Their
success is predicated on a populist appeal to the already accepted, to
the Inevitable, which can only ever inspire a disappointed
ratification, never commitment or fervour. On the current political
scene, 'a politics of truth' is precluded, not by fear of the
totalitarian big Brother, but by genuflections to the postpolitical
big Other. cizek mourned the loss of leaders who can know what we want
more than we do ourselves. (Nietzsche was at his most perspicacious in
his anticipation of the 'autonomous herding' of contemporary
democracy.) Commitment and fidelity cannon survive the expeditious
adaptation to focusgroup/mediagenerated 'popular will' which
postpolitical success entails. (In this respect, Blair, who has gone
from being unable to utter a sentence unless it was cleared with a
focus group to the suicidal fidelity of his Iraq misadventure is
something of an enigma and an anomaly.) The second big lesson concerns
the form of an effective anticapitalism. anti-capitalism cannon
restrict itself to a set of populist demands any more that it can
realistically hope that unicycycling and juggling will spontaneously
produce a ludic carnivalesque detournement of the global order. As I
pointed out at the time of live8, Everyone which is to say, All
Opinion agrees with populist calls that capitalism be 'reformed'. But
one cannon reform capitalism, because, in a very real sense,
capitalism is reform itself: a monster that is not only
selfengendering, but also shoggothically protean in its perpetual
reconstructions of itself . (Not for nothing is 'reform' the
constantly reiterated mantra in the neo-liberal Bible, the Economist).
Furthermore, to whom are any 'demands' to be addressed? anti-
capitalism will always be guilty of the 'populist temptation' while it
continues to posit a corrupt oligarchy who need only be replaced, or
worse, persuaded. The error here is not simply the illusion that 'this
particular leadership' are the problem, it is the idea that capitalism
has any sort of leadership at all. The administrators' washing of
hands which they claim are always tied is not merely an act of
selfexculpation; it really is the case that they are the slaves of the
remorseless machine of Capital. Noone driving. One of Zizek's greatest
strengths has always been his hyperstitional account of the way in
which capitalism runs by generating beliefs and behaviours. Behaviour
anticipates belief, in a causal, not a merely predictive, sense.
Perhaps that isn't going far enough: it would be better to say that
behaviours are already beliefs, Pascalian 'beliefs before beliefs'.
Yet ideology, as I've argued before, resides in the (apparent)
discrepancy between belief and behaviour. At the level of cognition,
people 'know perfectly well' that money is only a token, that
commodities aren't alive, yet they behave 'as if' money is a real
substantially and that commodities are a natural force. Such activity
is, needless to say, more than sufficient for the purposes of the
replication of Capital. But where, here, is the properly fictional
level? Does it reside with Capital or with the 'autonomous'
individual? Perhaps the relationship between the two is exactly that
of a fictionwithinafiction: the vast, planetary Science Fiction of
Capital generates the implied fiction of the psychobiographical
individual it feeds upon. But the real money question is: how are we
to dispense with these fictions? If SF Capital installs itself through
ritualized behaviours of commoditycompliance, we have to conclude that
the only way to rid ourselves of such fictions is to practise new
behaviours, new rituals. And that is inseparable from the question of
new economic models. * As Susan Willis explains: 'The prince uses the
little drama to create a structure, a dimension of truth disguised as
a fiction in order to make Claudius betray himself. It is not the
narrative (Claudius pouring the poison in the erstwhile kings ear),
but the play scene as a structure that reveals the truth of Hamlets
Oedipal quandary: in seeing the performed action, Hamlet catches
himself allied with his fathers murderer, complicit with him in the
desire for his mother.Here, the real is not a kernel, conveniently
rock hard and discernable through the veil of fiction; it is instead
the very structure, the warp and weft of the veils.' + One of the most
interesting aspects of Alberto's paper was its discussion of Foucault,
which reminded me of some of the issues Tim raised in his latest post
on The Wrong Side of Capitalism. Juxtaposing Foucault's Preface to
AntiOedipus, in which he condemns any attempt to ground politics in a
truth, with his enthusiasm for the Iranian Revolution's
'spiritualization of politics' produces quite a vignette. I think Jodi
Dean is right to lose patience with some of the positions cizek adopts
in his recent 'writings' on the French riots. (The inverted commas are
Jodi's, but well-merited for a mode of textual production that is best
described as word processor remixology. I wonder how different Zizek's
later texts would be if he had to write or type out passages again,
rather than being able to cut and paste them.) The failure to
articulate a positive vision has long been a major problem with
Zizek's work, so it is hard not to find the following extremely
frustrating:'One should bear in mind that the philosopher's task is
not to propose solutions, but to reformulate the problem itself, to
shift the ideological framework within which we hitherto perceived the
problem.' Weeeell, a few proposed solutions wouldn't go amiss,
actually. Partly the problem here is Zizek's positioning of himself as
a 'philosopher' rather than, say, a Leninist, or a political theorist.
By opposing philosophy to action, he confirms Marx and Engels' famous
exhortation of the discipline in The German Ideology. But his dodging
of the task admittedly a forbiddingly difficult task, but the
difficulty is part of what makes it so pressing is symptomatic of a
wider malaise on the Left. The Left's presence today remains
predominantly a negative one, a consequence, no doubt, of the
'cultural turn' the retreat from economics into cultural criticism,
the Left's preeminence in which is a kind of consolation prize for
wider geopolitical marginalization. Permanent Oppositionalism is the
vice of the impotent, a luxury in which the disempowered can indulge.
(As is amply demonstrated In Britain by the current status of a
formerly hegemonically dominant Right wing party: the irrelevance of
the Tories is confirmed by their recline into reactive sniping.
Peversely, the effect of such carping is often to reinforce the status
quo. As the Independent noted today, it's impossible to believe
anything the government says... until the Tories oppose it.) One
benefit of Karatani's Transcritique is that it is prepared to get down
and dirty by considering an actual economic alternative to capitalism,
namely LETS (the Local Exchange Trading System). Neither cizek nor
Steven Shaviro, in his second post on Transcritique, are persuaded by
LETS, for what are no doubt good reasons. Steven can't envisage LETS
bringing capitalism down all by itself. But neither is he convinced by
what he characterizes as 'Zizek and Badious hyperromantic fantasy of a
Leninist Event of radical rupture'. Perhaps the failure of each of
these scenarios is their exclusion of the Other: Badiouian mentalism
lacks a reference to economics, while a purely economic model like
LETS is in need of a vision of radical (political and ideological)
alterity. Wasn't one of Marx's most important innovations his
invention of the concept of political economy, after which we can no
longer legitimately see politics and economics discretely? (Hence the
idiocy of attacking Marxism as if it were a failed economic theory.)
Permanent Oppositionalism certainly contributes to capitalism's self-
fulfilling discourse of Inevitability, about which Tim Wrong Side of
Capitalism has a few interesting things to say. '[M]aybe we need to
introduce an extra detail into this analysis. Unlike Thatchers claim
that There Is No Alternative (a modernist position of a sort, in that
it posited the inevitability of progress, albeit progress only on
capitals terms), the Third Way claims precisely to be the alternative
(and thus is postmodernist; rather than asserting what the future will
be, it simply abolishes the future by claiming to instantiate it).
More newish cizek material here And perhaps better than any of Zizek's
recent cut and pastime is this brilliantly observed preemptive parody
(so effective, as Tim says, that it actually works as a powerful
commentary on the French riots). ... Or, further thoughts, some of
them mine, on Aerial.... Well, the blow revival continues Woebot,
heronbone, the brilliant It's All in Your Mind* and even the mighty
Pillbox+ have all emerged from their cryonic comas recently with the
welcome return of Church of Me, back with an essential post on Kate
Bush. Aerial Its cover image is a waveform of a blackbird's song
remained as a geological formation. Kate Bush's Aerial is Deleuzian
MOR: a numinous, luminous twitterscape of womenanimal becomings, a
hymn to light, and lightness. I'd concur with what's already
coalescing into a critical consensus: 'King of the Mountain' apart,
the first disc 'Sea of Honey' is merely an appetiser for the second
CD, the sumptuous song suite that is 'A Sky of Honey'. On the face of
it, for this, her return after twelve years, Bush could either make a
show of pursuing Relevance a la Bowie, or Madonna, or else recline
into a sessionmusician airbrushed 'timelessness' like Bryan Ferry. In
the event, she tacks closer to the second option, but with
considerably more success than Ferry has mustered in any of his solo
albums for the last twenty years. The sonic palette from which Bush
has constructed Aerial contains few rogue elements, and hardly
anything that would have discomfited a mid-80s audience. And yet ...
'A Sky of Honey' in particular has the flavour, if not the
instrumentation, of later genres. The intermittent birdsong, the
lambert washes of subdued strings and synth, the shifts in atmosphere
now tranquil, now tempestuous, now humid, now temperate recall ambient
jungle (I'm put in mind more than once of Goldie's 'Mother'), the lush
opiate vastness of microhouse, English pastoral techno such as
Ultramarine. It is in A Thousand Plateaus' 'Of the Refrain' that
Deleuze and Guattari write of birdsong. On one side, the refrain is a
territorial marker, the tracing of an interiority; on the other, it
opens out into the cosmos. Aerial is similarly double: 'A Sea of
Honey' exploring the heimlich, 'A Sky of Honey' dreaming the cosmic.
'King of the Mountain' has been one of the singles of the year
insidious and insinuating rather than immediate, a blindside seduction
which makes itself a habit before you've registered awareness of it.
Its snowswept eyrie contains the grandest, most elemental, rendition
of the twin themes that dominate 'A Sea of Honey' domesticity and
isolation. Kane in Xanadu doubles Elvis in Graceland, wind howling
around the melancholy opulence of their empty mansions. The other
songs on 'A Sea of Honey' retreat from these media mythscapes into
more intimate territory. Bush flirts with sentimental indulgence on
the song addressed to her son, 'Bertie', while meditating on the line
between bliss and banality, pathos and bathos, on 'How to be
Invisible' and 'Mrs Bartolozzi', with their imagery of anoraks,
wallflowers and washing machines. What is fascinating about 'Sea of
Honey' is its exploration of the Mother's bliss, which has by
definition been excised from a history of rock that has endlessly
staged the cutting of the apron strings, the rejection of the
maternal. There's something oppressive and cloying about this domestic
space, something suffocating and greedily insatiable about the
protected interiority Bush creates. The 'domestic idyll' is literally
agoraphobic, troubled by an Outside it seeks to keep at bay. 'How to
be Invisible' is a spell in which extraordinary objects are brandished
as protective charms, preservatives of a domesticity that has
withdrawn from the wider social world. Yet the heimlich, the homely,
is always, also, the unheimlich, the unhomely, the uncanny. In 'Mrs
Bartolozzi', a widow's solitude transforms laundry into a Svankmajer
erotic dance, the boredom, loneliness and sadness of a confined mind
transfiguring empty clothes into an animist memorytheatre. In these
circumscribed horizons, washing the floor becomes a religious
observance, an act of mourning and melancholy. If 'A Sea of Honey' is
a kitchen-sink delirium, its spaces all carpeted and walled, then 'A
Sky of Honey' is widescreen, panoramic, as the words of the handout
track, 'Nocturn', have it. Everything opens out. It's as if we leave
the artificial cocoon of the house to step out into the garden, a
garden which becomes a lush Ernst jungle... What impresses most about
'A Sky of Honey' is the majesty of its composition.It sounds like the
sort of thing Bush has done before, but there's nothing else in her
oeuvre quite so sustained as this. I mean 'composition' in the
painterly at least as much as the musicians sense, for 'A Sky of
Honey' is Bush's most painterly record: each sound a delicate stroke
in a delicately constructed and minutely conceived picture. Van Gogh
('the flowers are melting!'), Chagall, Ernst, as much as Joyce or
Bronte, seem to be the guiding hands. The painter's medium light may
well be 'A Sky of Honey's' principal preoccupation. The image of a
pavement artist's work destroyed by rain is central to 'A Sky of
Honey': 'all the colours are running'. Yet no mood of regret or
melancholy can last long here; in an instant, Bush is celebrating 'the
wonderful sunset' that the run colours have become. Ironically for a
record so artfully and fastidiously designed, so foreign to rock and
jazz's spontaneity, the message is that the Accident is the preeminent
form of creation. We are gently urged to revel in the innocence of
becoming, to 'look at the light... and all the time it's a
changing....' The record celebrates the butterflywing fragility of the
Moment, the neverstatic Hacceities Nature is madly composing and is
composed of, the everevanescent iridescence of the 'somewhere
inbetween' in which we are always lost. Between wakefulness and sleep,
between land and sea, between sky and dust, between day and night, 'A
Sky of Honey' reaches its poised, anticlimax plateau on the last three
tracks, 'Somewhere in Between', 'Nocturn' and 'Aerial'. By 'Somewhere
in Between', we have reached dusk, the time when everything
desubstantializes, and the song is a dance of dying light, a savouring
of the evening's bewitched, betwixt state. 'Nocturn' is up there with
anything she's done its oneiric, oceanic disco a kind of becalmed
answer to Patti Smith's 'Horses', the white water of Smith's angst and
passions soothed and smoothed into a placid lake in which amphibious
longings swim and commingle. 'Nocturn' is a journey to the end of the
night very different to the one eline took: a Van Goghvisionary
stretching, a reaching both up into the sky and down into the sea.
'The stars are caught in our hair/ The stars are on our fingers/ A
veil of diamond dust/ Just reach up and touch it/ The skys above our
heads/The seas around our legs/ In milky, silky water/We swim further
and further/ We dive down... We dive down...' There are suggestions of
Joyce's Anna Livia Plurabelle here, the river heading out to the sea
that will swallow it, just as the dreaming mind awakens. After this,
there is the dappled return of sunlight on 'Aerial', glimmers of light
on the water's surface, 'all of the birds laughing', Bush joining in.
Magisterial, and better with every listen. 'It's inevitable.... like
globalization....' Striking that the hapless Mark Corrigan should
choose 'globalization' as an exemplar of the 'inevitable' at the
moment he euphorically overcame impotence in the first episode of the
latest series of Channel 4's brilliant attila comedy, Peep Show. A
symptom, no doubt, of the degree to which global capital and the
notion of inevitability have become synonymous in the popular
unconscious. Capitalism's appeal to inevitability is now so
commonplace that it is a legitimate question as to whether the idea of
inevitability is integral to the spread of global capital.
'Inevitability' operates as a kind of negatived hyperstitional motor
for capital. If hypersition is about 'fictions making themselves
real', then Capitalist Inevitability is about current reality
maintaining itself in perpetuity. More of the same, forever. This
alleged Inevitability is not a question of 'Economic Laws' the hideous
coupling of Hegel and Adam Smith in the neo-liberal climax of history
but of belief. The Inevitable figures as a belief that engenders
behaviour in a self-fulfilling circuit. It is because people believe
that capitalism is Inevitable that it is. For now. It appears that
former Green and Friends of the Earth activist 'Sir' Jonathan Porritt
is now a reluctant advocate of the view that Capitalism is inevitable.
As summarised by The Guardian, Porritt's current position 'is
pragmatic and goes briefly like this: it is impossible to deny the
need for profound change in the face of today's ecological crises; the
pace of change is not sufficient, and conventional environmentalism
has failed to win over hearts and minds; change has to be desirable
and will not come by threatening people with ecological doom;
therefore, we must embrace capitalism as the only overarching system
capable of both reconciling ecological sustainability, and reforming
it. More to the point, he says, "we don't have time to wait for any
bigpicture ideological successor"'. ''Like it or not,' Porritt writes,
'capitalism is the only game in town. The drive to extend the reach of
markets into every aspect of the economy is an irresistible force.'
What's odd about Porritt's argument is his (albeit mitigated) faith in
capitalism, his conviction that it is in any way 'realistic' that
capitalism will deliver ecological sustainability. What is
particularly disappointing about his position is that it incorporates
Green issues into Capitalist Realism rather than positing them as an
aspect of the Real which Capital cannon metabolize. Whilst intended to
convey swaggering teleological certitude, the appeal to Inevitability
also bespeaks a certain libidinal deficit in capital, for the silent
clause in any claim about capitalism's Inevitability is 'you might not
like it, but....'. In practice, of course, the Inevitable cashes out
as the extirpation of politics and its replacement by administration,
generalized managerialism and Reform. (This crock of shit is extremely
difficult to sell convincingly, as Blair is now discovering.) The
precise opposite of the Inevitable is the Impossible, which is why any
genuine notion of the political must be based upon the Impossible, on
what is unthinkable in the current arrangement of reality. Perhaps the
lineaments of this Impossible alternative are visible in what is
happening in France, which is in part the obverse of the dominant
Gleamprog narrative of globalization. Only those left behind by the
'inexorable tide' of the Inevitable will make the Impossible happen.
Interesting, and telling, that disenfranchised Muslims are held to be
the Enemy by both the neo-liberal advocates of deterritorialized
capital and their supposed adversaries in protectionist Old Europe.
'Islamofascism' easily trips off the tongues of nellis (essentially
because the predicate 'fascist' is already contained within the
subject 'Islam' as far as they are concerned), while IslamoMarxism is
treated as a joke. But credit where credit's due in a welcome break
from his standard idiocy, Aaronovitch today rejected the idea that the
riots could be attributed to the religious background of those
involved. (He also rightly excoriated the racist denunciations of
'Eurabia'.) In this he is supported by none other than the Economist,
which argued on Friday that the riots were an 'underclass rebellion'
sparked by factors which were primarily economic, of which
unemployment is the most significant (see its graph, above). 'This was
the angry rebellion of a beardless, Nikewearing teenage underclass.'
(The Economist's analysis is not as far away from that of Badiou's
l'Organisation politique as you might expect.)However, the economic,
the ethnic and the religious are not easily separated, in part because
being unemployed and being a muslim are much more closely correlated,
in France as in Britain, than they ought to be. As the Economist
points out, 'according to a report last year by the Institut
Montaigne, a thinktank, the unemployment rate of visible minorities
[in France] is nearly three times the national average.' But this
means that a flip is always possible and that many around the world
who now identify themselves in terms of a religious affiliation could
come to see themselves as part of a worldwide underclass ... the
'detritus of globalization' as the seeds of a new revolutionary
subjectivity? Adam kosko replies to my posts on unemployment from last
week....  Two, closely related, posts by Steven Shaviro... the first
on usevalue, the second on join Karatanis Transcritique, which aims to
bring together Marx with Kant. (I'm very sympathetic, incidentally, to
Steven's call, contra Zizek, for a reading of Lacan through Kant
rather than Hegel. Zizek's review of Transcritique, incidentally, can
be found here, on Jodi Dean's site). In the post on usevalue, Steven
rejects what has calcified into an orthodoxy in certain areas of
French theory : the view that Marx nostalgically resisted the
vertiginous implications of exchange value (the ultimate example of
the delirium play of signs without a referent) by retreating into the
notion of a precommodified and unmediated utility. (I must confess
that I have in the past been guilty of uncritically endorsing and
propagating this attack on Marx.) Steven points out that usefulness is
something quite different from use value, and that the latter only
comes into effect precisely by reference to exchange value. Far from
being originary, use-value is only ever retrospectively posited from
the point of view of exchange value, so 'its not Marx, but the
neoliberal, free-market economists, who make the mistake of
hypostatizing usevalue, of endowing it with fundamental meaning, of
attributing to it a transparent, direct relation of utility for a
subject.' The karajan book, which I look forward to reading,
apparently makes a similar move. Importantly, karajan says that is not
Marx but Ricardo that is the advocate of the labour theory of value.
According to Karatani, Marx treated the relationship between the
labour theory of value and its opposite Bailey's idea that value was
purely relational as a Kantian antinomy. In his piece on Transcritique
describes antibodies in terms of the parallax, 'the reality exposed
through difference'. Like many of Kant's concepts, the antimony is
mindmeltingly destabilizing: at one at the same time, it is a botham
relation (value is generated both out of labour and purely
relationally) and a either/or relation (neither labour nor pure
rationality are sufficient to account for the genesis of value). The
truth of the antimony lies in its irresolvable tension, not in any
solution to it (not that any solution is possible in any case).
UPDATE: Bat mails in defence of Baudrillard. Bat pointed out that the
rejection of the idea that use-value was primordial had been made by
Baudrillard in For a Critique of the Political Economy of the Sign. I
replied that this is indeed so, but Steven's point was that
Baudrillard thinks he's deconstructing Marx when in fact this is what
Marx himself says. To which Bat answered as follows: 'Hmm, I wonder
about this. People are always a trifle too quick pronounce on what
they think Baudrillard thinks he's doing. What strikes me about For A
Critique... is that Baudrillard's reading Marx is blatantly (ie too
blatantly) "unfair"  he selectivelyquotes the sections of Capital that
back his reading, eg overanthropocentrism, Crusoe. My take on this is
that JB is gunning at Marxism, or rather theStalinised academic
Marxism that dominated French intellectual culture the time. But he
deliberately avoids the standard "no no, /this/ what Marx was /really/
saying" strategy  which would represent yetanother "return to Marx",
yet another futile attempt at shoring upAuthenticity, and consequently
be inconsistent with JB's peculiarlyEvil version of logic of the
signifier. Instead he reverses things by saying, "yes, yes, Marx /is/
the use-value fetishist you secretly take him to be  and much more
so..."' If you haven't seen this clip a trailer for The Shining recur
to completely change the meaning of the film brighten up your day and
take a look. This should become a standard in Media Studies class as
an instant tutorial in how meaning is generated through editing and
anchorage... The trailer isn't wholly misleading, however. It reveals
a certain truth about The Shining, which, as Walter Metz argued, is
not a straightforward Horror film, but a metacentric exploration of
the relationship between Horror and the family melodrama. The clip
also reminded me of Jameson's observations in 'Culture and Finance
Capital' that the film trailer is the art form most symptomatic of our
phase of capitalism. In trailers, Jameson claims, the images are
'fully satisfying in themselves, without the benefit of the laborious
threads and connections of the ... plot. At this point it would seem
that the preview, as a structure and a work in its own right, bears
something of the same relationship to its supposed final product as
those novelized films, written after the fact of the movie and
published later as a kind of eroded reminder, is to the filmic
original it replicates. The difference is that, in the case of the
feature film and its book version, we have to do with completed
narrative structures of a similar type, structures both equally
antiquated by these new developments'. Typically thoughtful post from
eogan at Scrabbling at the Lock in response to my remarks on
unemployment. 'Work was something you were doomed to, a return to the
miseries of school life with its uniforms, meaningless activity and
arbitrary rules, and I did my best to delay its onset, to sabotage my
suitability for employment,' he observes, concluding, ' If
unemployment is no longer a viable option, then let me at least be
underemployed.' Nothing defines the Right so thoroughly as their
detestation of welfare. The spurious economic rationale for this
denigration does little to conceal its real libidinal basis: namely,
the sense that They the scroungers, the 'bogus asylum seekers', the
immigrants have stolen 'our' enjoyment. Work is deemed to have an
absolute value: routinized exertion of whatever kind, no matter how
useless, demeaning or even malevolent, must be thought of
intrinsically good (this superstition, sadly, is widespread in the
working class, as it would have to be). In this respect, it is
interesting to reflect that part of the back story of Blunkett's
second 'resignation' is the Labour Party's plans to 'reform'
incapacity benefit, memorably described by the Independent last week
as akin to the ravings of a demented Emperor. Blair wants to cut
benefit by twenty pounds a week and, ludicrously, 'name and shame'
doctors who write sick notes. Weber famously speculated on the links
between the Protestant work ethic and the spirit of capitalism.
Whatever the causal linkage, capitalism clearly cannon operate without
an 'ethic' of quantitative increase that is literally pointless.
Traditionally, the Left has been insufficiently critical of this
fetishization of labour. It is the likes of Andre Gorz (Critique of
Economic Reason, Pathways to Paradise: On the Liberation from Work)
and the situationists ('Never work') who have made underemployment a
goal. 'Perhaps Old Europe ended with us, we thought. Perhaps Old
Europe was the secondhand paperbacks we exchanged. It was the
compilations we made on cassette for one another. It was Gang of Four
and The Raincoats. It was The Fire Engines and Magazine. It was Kafka
and Canetti. It was that great tide of records and books on which we
were borne.' Spurious '"Work is always available if you look hard
enough." How hard? Hard enough to get a job therefore, if one does not
have a job, one has not yet looked hard enough, by definition. The
failure to work hard is, on the official ideological level, the most
serious moral failure in American society.' Adam kosko It's something
I can easily forget now, but I've spent most of my adult life
unemployed or as a student (the difference between the two, in terms
of lifestyle, money, social status, or rather lack of it, were, at
that time, indiscernibles of course). Spurious' recent post on
unemployment, almost an elegiac Borgesian parable, treats the
condition as an opportunity, a space outside, rather than a lack of,
Work. 'Unemployment the un was privative, but we experienced it as
liberation.' For Spurious, state-funded unemployment made possible a
leisured contemplation now circumscribed by the ubiquitious, insidious
spread of 'Regeneration'. (One could say the same for state-funded
education, since today's university student typically has little in
common with the old-style unemployed; the indebted student is now also
and already a worker.) But, as I read Spurious' account, I was
reminded of Adam Kotsko's rather bleaker post from a few months back,
and it his account which chimes with my own experience. For reasons
that were existential and psychological rather than economic,
unemployment never felt like something I had chosen. Rather, I was
convinced that employability was a Fate, that life was not a
deliberate avoidance of work so much as a fleeing from the
implications of that social uselessness. When I graduated in the late
eighties, graduate unemployment was just starting to bite, but my
conviction was that this only confirmed the inevitable. The economic
situation might have exacerbated the problem; in the end, however, it
didn't much matter since I would never work any way. Lack of work
amplified a feeling that I imagine many people have, but which was
particularly pronounced in my own case: a sense that I was not quite
real. There was no point getting a job interview, because, along with
my 'incompetence', my fundamental fraudulent would be immediately
evident to the panel. A magic circle was in place, a familiar closed
loop: I would never work because of my inauthenticity; my
inauthenticity would only be cured by working. I went to job
interviews hoping that the interviewers would persuade ME that I could
do the job, which isn't quite the right way round. The great benefit
of eventually getting a longterm job is that it demystified and
sublimated Work. Once inside the magic circle, the discrepancy between
the language of job ads (which make it seem like only the most
hypercompetent, self-motivated careerist automaton could hold down the
most modest of positions) and the reality (of poor organization,
routine incompetence) became apparent. When Tim Wrong Side of
Capitalism linked to Spurious' post, he rightly made the connection
with Deleuze's Postscript on Societies of Control. Which makes me
think that Kafka (who, with Foucault and Burroughs is a central figure
in Deleuze's essay) is not an avtar of Old Europe, as Spurious
suggests, but of New Europe. Or to be more precise: Kafka stands on
the cusp between the Old Europe of Fordist discipline and the New
Europe of Control. Deleuze reminds us of the infamous distinction, in
The Trial, between ostensible acquittal and indefinite postponement,
correlating the former with the disciplinary societies we are in the
process of moving away from and the latter with the control societies
we are moving towards. 'In the disciplinary societies one was always
starting again (from school to the barracks, from the barracks to the
factory),' Deleuze wrote, 'while in the societies of control one is
never finished with anything.' 'Continuous assessment' is the mode by
which Control operates. K's anxieties in The Castle and The Trial
arise because his status is always pending resolution. He is never
really anything finally or definitively. Awaiting the judgement of the
court is structurally identical to waiting for the position as Land
Surveyor to be ratified; in both cases, K is a homo safer waiting to
be readmitted into the ranks of the human. But if disciplinary
societies held out the hope of finally Being Something (of having a
lifelong job), Control societies make any position provisional,
temporary, subject to review. precocity is permanent.You wait for one
Blissblog post and then seven arrive at once.... Amidst the torrent,
Simon draws our attention to Stylus' week-long celebration of ELO. I
particularly like this piece by Mike Powell, which argues that el and
Roxy were the 'warped negative image' of one another. Twiggy and della
Kirwan have been given the credit for reviving the market performance
of Marks and Spencer, but the use of 'Mr Blue Sky' in the television
advertising campaign must have been at least as significant.
Interesting how different what both Roxy and el did with Pop time
retracting it, bending it, producing unheimlch PKDstyle
backtothefutures is to the temporal malaise which Simon rightly
identifies as one of the blights on contemporary pop. One of the
strongest and most convincing aspects of Jameson's critique of
postmodernism was his identification of the exhaustion of a sense of
historical time as a defining characteristic of the postmodern. Once,
Roxy and el might have seemed archetypal postmodern, but their
thematization of the looping of Pop time is what is missing amongst
much contemporary pop which performs the end of Pop history without
being able to comment on it. Was just watching The Armando santucci
Shows (from 2001) in which santucci jokes at one point that soon there
will be more reconstructions than things that have actually happened.
(Jameson's vast new book, archaeologists of the Future attempts to
reconstruct the future that postmodernism has erased). Meanwhile
although on the same theme really Simon's remarks on the Gang of Four
revival particularly the placing of 'We Live as We Dream, Alone' as
the final track on the Return the Gift album take on an added piquancy
when you read this, which is way more depressing than got being
reduced to recording their old songs. The latest Ghost Box release,
Mind How You Go by the Advisory Circle, is worth 4.50 of anyone's
money. The packaging alone justifies the outlay. The standard elegance
of the Ghost Box design is actually heightened by being distilled and
miniaturized on a dinky 3" CD. The sounds are the by now
familiarstrange Ghost Box signatures: slightly angular analogue synths
and a summer haze of voices (lifted from public service films and
children's records) benignly conspiring to produce a convivial uneasy
listening. The past as a shared dream. 'And the Cuckoo Comes', with
its cut-glass intoning of a child's rhyme, is my personal favourite;
its faintly sinister refraining reminiscent of the use of nursery
lyrics in Sapphire and Steel. Mind How You Go is available from the
Ghost Box website, where you will also be able to find a couple of
trybeforeyoubuy mps available for download. No apologies for yet
another Lenin's Tomb link; this time, Bat on 'a penchant for
unexpected dialectical reversals in the normal ideological discourse
of consumerism' namely the recent trend for advertisers to say the
opposite of what you'd expect (Persil opening that 'dirt is good';
Orange piously informing us that 'good things happen when your mobile
is switched off'.) I'd been vaguely annoyed and bemused by these ads,
but had merely attributed their reversals to advertiser smugness. If
the Unilever site is to be believed, though, the Persil campaign is an
example of 'literally thinking outside the soapbox'. A new book is now
online at Transmat. Patricia McCormack#s Pleasure, Perversion and
Death deals with Italian gore cinema from a Deleuzoguattarian
perspective. (I haven't read it all, but I'm hoping that there's
mention of the shark vs zombie scene in Fulci's Zombie Flesh
Eaters...) Also: if people have essays and/ or theses that they think
would be appropriate for Transmat (broad remit really:
DeleuzeGuattari, cyberculture, Foucault, Lyotard, psychoanalysis,
poststructuralism, postmodernism etc etc) they should email
Transmatmail[at]gmail.com. 'He wondered how much difference rubik
dangled towards them again and again and again in countless different
ways but always out of reach  would have made.' Philip K Dick, rubik
Everyone knows that the moment of vertigo in a Philip K Dick novel
occurs not when one level of reality has been exposed as fake, but
when the second level, the supposedly more real level, turns out to be
inauthentic too. Here, we move beyond the familiar sense that 'things
are not as they seem' to a mis en able in which, by implication, the
status of reality as such is undermined. Dick's signature concept is
not the notion that this or that reality is fake but the idea that any
reality whatsoever is false. Steven shapiro explains that '[f]or Dick,
Being is not a plenitude. It is always somehow fake, or trashy, or
incomplete, or unstable or radically inconsistent. And Dick's novels
describe, in excruciating detail, the lived experience of this
unreality, or notquite reality, that is not yet simply absence or
nonexistence'. These experiences are not a consequence of finding
oneself in a particular, low-grade reality; rather, they follow from
living in any reality, which will be experienced as seedy and second-
rate simply because one lives in it. Dick's novels, then, are a
sustained meditation on the difference between reality and the Real.
Reality is what is available to us as possible experience in any
lifeworld. The Real, however, is what has to be in place so reality
can function, the 'something else' that must be presupposed in order
that we can experience anything at all. Yet this superstructure is not
evident insofar as it undergirds or guarantees experience, but only
where it fails to do so: in the gaps, fissures and ruptures in
reality. The Real is the trauma around which reality is structured;
although it is not possible to experience it as such or 'initself'
(The Real is impossible...) its effects can be felt through 'ripples
of distortion' in the structure of reality (... but it happens). As
cizek puts it in Plague of Fantasies, reality is 'what constitutes
reality is the minimum of idealization the subject needs in order to
sustain the horror of the Real.' (66) In rubik Joe Chip's reality
famously corrodes, devolves, falls prey to the entropy that is one of
the ruling forces in Dick's cosmos (and ours). Everything he touches
decays and collapses; cigarettes turn stale in the pack, milk
instantly sours. (It's tempting to read rubik as an account of
depression, a condition which similarly devivifies everything with
which it comes into contact. In fact, of course, rubik probably draws
heavily on Dick's experiences with speed comedowns.) As all heat
passes from Joe and he becomes pure weight (remember the horrifying
slow motion climb up the stairs, his body by now a barely movable bulk
oppressed by a hideous gravity), he is rescued by the spraying of an
aerosol can of Ubik, the all-purpose 'reality support' which now
begins to appear fleetingly and tantalisingly  everywhere. (The novel,
with its quest form, its magical objects, its benevolent and
malevolent messages from those supposed to know Runciter, Elly, tory
is like a computer game programmed by a Lacanian.) Joe's quest for the
Holy Grail of rubik faces multiple, bad dream frustrations  the worse
being when the can is regressed to an earlier mode so that it becomes
useless. Looking at what is now a tin of liver balm, Joe reflects
mordantly on the cheerless irony that a solution to temporal
regression has itself been devolved into an earlier form of itself.
What is rubik that which is 'dangled towards [us] again and again and
again in countless different ways but [which remains] always out of
reach' if not the petit object a? Ubik, which appears in the narrative
(and in the parody epigraph of each chapter) as a diversity of
commodities, seems to promise fullness, a being restored to plenitude.
And Joe is apparently blocked from this fullness only by particular
contingent facts: the shop is closed, they are out of stock etc etc.
Like the object a, rubik is both a gap in the reality structure
(pointing to 'something else', a beyond, an alternative to shoddiness
and seediness) but also a 'reality support' (that which literally
'keeps us going', keeps us wanting). Lenin, again on endemic and
worsening poverty in the USA. But even after Katrina has exposed the
reality of America's internal Third World, the fundamental fantasy of
the US Right remains robustly in place. In Lacanian terms, a subject's
fundamental fantasy takes the form of a statement of this type: 'I
would have had access to enjoyment if only X hadn't stolen it from
me'. The US version of this is a slight variation: 'we Americans have
full access to enjoyment, but we are preventing from experiencing it
because others want to steal it from us' or 'our access to full
enjoyment is blocked only by those others who resentfully pretend that
we don't have such access.' In this fantasy, Americans are positive,
optimistic, while the Other 'Old' Europe and/ or 'Islamofascists', or
their supposed fusion in 'Eurabia' is negative, embittered,
backwardlooking. One of the most baffling and infuriating aspects of
those who fall victim to the fantasy is their absolute conviction
that, in their heart, everyone wants to be American. I'm sure that the
disaster in Iraq is in part a consequence of this fantastic
conviction. It is not so much that the Bush regime failed to think
about how to deal with resistance to American occupation; it is that
such resistance was for it at the time unthinkable. The expectation
was that the US Army would be warmly greeted by all Iraqis,
proclaiming: 'yes, bring us your 60 hour working weeks, your
pornography, your spiralling debts, your obesity and heart disease,
give us it now, it's what we have always wanted...' Lenin brilliant on
Zizek's new piece on the extraordinary outbreak of racist hysteria in
the wake of Hurricane Katrina. ITN was certainly guilty of propagating
the delirium. The most shameful moment came when they led their
bulletins with a 'story' in which a couple of appear idiots gave their
'insights' into the 'horror' of the Superdome. The story exemplified
the media tendency to equivocal between the phobic phantasms of white
tourists and actual empirical events. The 'shocking footage' of the
Superdome that ITN promised actually amounted to fuzzy video shot by
the tourists, which showed precisely nothing to substantiate any of
the claims about Hobbesian outbreaks of orgiastic violence
appropriately, it was a 'blank slate' to be filled in by the (racist)
imagination of the viewers. Needless to say, the British tourists'
brief sojourn in the underclass Hell that many of the New Orleans
black poor will spend all of their life in was quickly over, their
attempts to have a cheap holiday in other people's misery frustrated;
they were given preferential treatment (a possible source of the
hostility of which they claimed to be a victim) and soon escaped the
city. Zizek's point is that, even if some rapes happened, that
wouldn't have stopped the coverage being racist. It's a point he's
made before, in relation to the Nazi treatment of Jews: to undertake
an empirical survey to determine if there was any factual basis for
the Nazis' claims about Jewish conspiracies would be grotesque,
because 'even if rich Jews in early ac30s Germany really had exploited
German workers, seduced their daughters and dominated the popular
press, the Nazis  antiSemitism would still have been an emphatically
untrue, pathological ideological condition. Why? Because the causes of
all social antagonisms were projected onto the Jewan object of
perverted lovehatred, a spectral figure of mixed fascination and
disgust.' Lenin is right to say that the same process is happening
with the ProBombing camp's demonization of Muslims. Actual criminal
acts by particular Muslims become the empirical justification for
racist metanarratives about 'bad men in turbans'. As Lenin observes
(in the comments box) in relation to the ProBombing 'Left', 'It isn't
that they deep in their hearts are dirty racists, although
performative that is what they have become: it is that they have
internalised the priorities of power, and therefore have come to
believe that the US and Israel are unfairly maligned while a cluster
of radicalism Muslims are being whitewashed by the liberal media. They
have no idea how far to the right they are in that respect, of
course.' I was reminded of A History of Violence while watching Andrew
Jarecki's ultradisturbing documentary Capturing the friedman on C4's
new digital service, more4, the other night. Capturing the friedman is
about a family from Great Neck, New York State, two of whose members
(the father, Arnold, and one of the sons, Jesse, then only a teenager)
pleaded guilty to serious sexual offences and were consequently
jailed. Were they guilty? We can be reasonably confident only that
Arnold had paedophilia tendencies, and owned child pornography; he
also confessed to having had some sort of sexual contact, short of
sodomy, with two boys, but not in Great Neck. The rest is an enigma
which makes Rashomon seem like an open and shut case. Jesse's role,
for instance, is desperately unclear. The supposed victims claimed
that Jesse had participated in, and assisted with, his father's
violent abuses. But a campaigner cast doubt on the victims' testimony,
none of which was corroborated by any physical evidence, and most of
which seemed to have been 'recovered' after they had been hypnotized.
The gaps in the Friedman narrative are all the more glaring because of
the plethora of recorded material that IS available. This was a family
that seemed like many now I suppose to obsessively record itself. Part
of the 'capturing' of the friedman is their capturing of themselves,
on film and on tape. A documentary like this only became possible now
that filming technology cine cameras and later camcorders had become
widely available for the first time and kids are filmed from the
moment of birth. The whole thing felt like a grim counterpoint to the
protoreality TV documentary of the Loud family Baudrillard discussed
in 'Precession of Simulacra'. In a way, the most painful material
consists of home movie footage of the friedman shot in the 1970s, in
which they look for all the world like a perfectly happy family, the
kids mugging and clowning for the cameras. Never has Deleuze's
observation that 'family photos' are, by their very nature, profoundly
misleading been more bitterly borne out. Later, as the trials start
and the recriminations follow, the family fixed and audio-tapes
themselves ripping each other to shreds. Why did they continue to
film? 'How do they remember, those who do not film?' asks Chris Marker
in Sans Soleil. But why would the friedman want to remember their
journey into Hell? Who could possibly want to film this? In Lost
Highway Fred Madison (Bill Pullman) claimed that he hated the thought
of videotaping his own life because he 'liked to remember things in
his own way'. In an uncanny complement to this, David Friedman, who
recorded the events of the day Jesse was sentenced to 18 years
imprisonment, said that he filmed 'so I didn't have to remember it
myself'. The machines remember, so we don't have to. Hey! Old
skoolstyle interflug bizniz; Jodi answers my objections to her reading
of A History of Violence and now Steven shapiro weighs in with what
may turn out to be the definitive account. Jodi complains that I have
failed to take account of her acknowledgement that the Gangster
elements of the film are no less real than the Family scenes. On the
contrary, I think that it is her reading which contradicts that
acknowledgement, and must do. I accept that, explicitly, she concedes
that the Family reality has no ontological priority over the Gangster.
But the point is that her interpretation of the film depends upon a
clear implication inconsistent with that awareness. To say that the
film is the son, Jack's, fantasy is, surely, to say that the entire
Gangster plot is the product of his psychological conflicts. How could
this not be treating Jack and by extension the Family/ melodrama
generic elements as more 'basic', i.e. more real, than the Gangster
generic elements? On this model, Jack's psychology is a stabilizing
epistemological baseline to which everything in the film can be
indexed. Yet there seems to me to be no warrant in the film for such a
privileging. On the contrary, what is remarkable about A History of
Violence is its refusal of the possibility of this kind of
hierarchical settling. Jack's psychological conflicts and 'struggles
with manhood' are every bit as cliched as the hyperbolic violence of
the Joey plot. To treat the Melodrama conventions as generative of the
Gangster conventions is not only arbitrary, it misses what is most
troubling, and most distinctive, about the film's ontological
disturbances, which amount to a kind of Escherizing of genre. A
History of Violence is characterized by what we might call an
anomalous superficiality. The film is pure surface, or rather, pure
surfaces, lined together in such a way that we are aware of a
structural inconsistency but are unable to 'see the joins'. The
selflessness of which I wrote in my last post is the selflessness of
the median band, about which Steven writes so well: 'At any given
point, it seems to have two sides; but the two sides are really the
same side, each is continuous with the other, and slides imperceptibly
into the other. There is no way to separate the Capra/Spielberg side
from the noir/revenge nocturnal side. The common interpretive tendency
in cases like this is to see the dark side as the deep, hidden
underside of the bright side, the depths beneath the seemingly
cheerful surface. But in A History of Violence, everything is what it
seems. Both sides, both identities, are surfaces; both are
superficial; and they blends into one other almost without our
noticing. The small town, with its overly ostentatious friendliness,
is a vision of the good life; but brother Richies enormous mansion,
furnished with a nouveau riche vulgarity that almost recalls Donald
Trumps penthouse, is also a vision of the good life.' An important
point here being that Trump's own penthouse in 'real life' is itself,
of course, a fantasy, but so is small town family life. It, too, is a
matter of actors occupying a stageset. America, as Baudrillard,
following Dick and Ballard, long ago realised is itself, in its
'actual reality', an assemblage of incommensurable 'reality options'
given an illusory but performative effective consistency only by
fantasy. Yet fantasy precisely has no origin in interiority; on the
contrary, all seeming interiority is the playing out of fantasies that
are intrinsically social. Furthermore, it is not only that, as Steven
rightly insists, cinematic fantasies are social; it is also that
social fantasies are now deeply cinematic. Hence to see the film as
the playing out of our fantasies is at the same time to see ourselves
as the playing out of fantasies which belong to noone, which cannon be
routed in any Inside. Jodi is right that this is to void any
interpretation confined to the film's 'content'. Again, though, this
is the point. For psychological interpretations not only privilege a
particular psychology within the diegesis; they also privilege the
epistemological over the ontological. A History of Violence, however,
is a film which goes out of its way to expose the way in which genre
is ontology, and demands that we pose to ourselves the question of our
libidinal complicity in the realities cinema constructs. It is a film
which invites us to confront the radical inconsistency of 'our'
fantastic constructions and of our libidinal investments. Our desire
for the family idyll is what produces our cheering for Jack and Tom's
recourse to ultraviolence when that idyll is threatened, and this
complicity is the 'glue' which joins the two 'sides' of the median
band the Capra/ Spielberg and the noir/ revenge worlds together in a
seamless loop. A film reduced to Jack's psychological conflicts could
safely be externalized, but if we ourselves are tomboy animals with a
taste for violence hiding in a simulation of domesticity then the film
has forced us to confront the clumsiness of the film sets we inhabit.
A History of Violence would then belong to a kind of metacentric
ontological uncanny which performs that destruction of the homely that
the Situationists were so fond of invoking. 'The show is over. The
audience get up to leave their seats. Time to collect their coats and
go home. They turn around no more coats and no more home.' Vasily
Vasileyevich Rozanov, The Apocalypse of Our Time Jodi Dean has an
interesting reading of A History of Violence that is contrary to mine.
She interprets the film as 'the son's fantasy of violence underlying
the passive, ordinary goodness of his father'. (The son, as Jodi
rightly says, was entirely absent from my account of the film). For
Jodi, the film is a comingofage drama of an aberrant kind, in which,
only by splitting 'the father into the good father of the symbolic and
the obscene father of the mob, of underworld violence' can 'the son
... grapple with his own dilemmas of becoming a man.' Ingenious as
this reading is, I find it unsatisfactory for a number of reasons.
First of all, A History of violence frustrates an 'epistemological'
interpretation of this type at every turn. It is not a film like Fight
Club, Memento and The Machinist, i.e. an enigma which resolves into
questions of epistemological motivation. In those films, once we
realise that what we have seen is the product of a psychiatrically
and/or neurologically disordered mind, everything falls into place.
They are jigsaw puzzles which can be put together, and Sense can be
restored. A History of Violence, by contrast, is closer to Mulholland
Drive and Eyes Wide Shut, films which scramble Sense and leave it
scrambled. Appearances to the contrary, there is no moment of ultimate
revelation in A History of Violence. The revelation at the level of
digests our discovery that Tom is Joey does nothing to resolve the
film's most troubling quandary, which is ontological rather than
epistemological. At the end, nothing makes sense, because the
questions the film has raised not only 'what here is real?', but, more
profoundly, 'what is (the) Real'? have not been settled. Part of the
problem with Jodi's reading is that there is no clear ontological
hierarchy in A History of Violence. Nothing is 'marked' as more real
than anything else. This, again, is by contrast with Fight Club or The
Machinist, which turn upon a discrepancy concealed in the early parts
of the films, but exposed by their end between the psychotic delirium
of the lead characters and a publiclyvalidated empirical reality. But
there is no such discrepancy in A History of Violence, largely because
there is no uncontested, convincing, empirical reality from which we
can clearly differentiate the fantastic elements; there is only a
seamless tissue of fantasies. This is what makes the superficially
conventional A History of Violence more ontologically unsettling than
something like Existenz. existent presents a 'embedded' ontological
hierarchy, in which different realities are contained within each
other, the 'most real' being the one that embeds the rest. By the end
of Existenz, this hierarchy has been disrupted, first, by the 'reality
bleed' between ontological levels, so that supposedly 'inferior'
realities come to contaminate 'superior', higher-level realities, and
second, by the suggestion of an infinite regress of realities, with no
ground level. A History of Violence gets to this sense of
groundlessness or 'abgrund' without recourse to a 'vertical' model of
nested realities. Realities are not placed one inside the other, but
juxtaposed, one next to the other. A different kind of 'reality bleed'
altogether. As Jodi rightly observes, 'When we first see [the son] he
is part of a completely fantastic image of the perfect family: the
teenage son concerned about his little sister's bad dream.' This,
then, would appear not to be 'real'. But what is? There is barely one
situation in which the son finds himself that is not equally
implausible: his verbal and then physical testing of the bully, like
his shooting of the gangster to save his father's life, seem
'obviously' fantasmatic. But, then, so does everything else in the
film. Jodi might argue that the film's 'real Real' is what is not
depicted at the level of its digests yet, her reading, of necessity,
relies on privileging certain elements of what we DO see (most
obviously, we have to accept that the son really is a son, really is
at high school etc etc). Jodi's reading also surreptitiously resolves
the film's ontological tension, by assuming that the 'Joey reality' is
ontologically inferior to the 'Tom reality'. On what grounds, though?
As Jodi herself notes, the Stall domestic Paradiso is no more
'real'(istic) than the organized crime Inferno; it is just that, in
the first case, the fantasies derive from melodrama, while in the
second, they are taken from the gangster genre. (In this respect, A
History of Violence can be compared with The Shining, which similarly
mediates between the conventions of family drama and those of another
genre, in that case, Horror. See Walter Metz's intertextual analysis
here.) Paradoxically, the Stall family only seems realistic once it is
menaced by mobsters who are no more realistic. If there is 'realism'
at all, it is generated by the tensions between the conventions of two
genres. Jodi says that my reading was too quick to remove fantasy. But
I would want to argue that Jodi, like Graham Fuller in Sight and
Sound, contains fantasy by giving it a dietetic motivation. What this
leaves out is in a way the most obvious fantastic level: that of our
own fantasies. It is not that the events of the film can be reduced to
the fantasy of one of the characters; no, the film forces us to
confront the way in which the characters are OUR fantasies, the
violence is the violence of OUR wish fulfillments. Which is why I
wholeheartedly concur with Jonathan Rosenbaum (via). 'There's hardly a
shot, setting, character, line of dialogue, or piece of action in A
History of Violence that can't be seen as some sort of cliche,' he
writes. 'Its fantasies about how American small towns are paradise and
big cities are hell are genre standbys that Cronenberg milks at every
turn. But none of this plays like cliche; Cronenberg is such an
uncommon master of tone that we're in a state of denial about our
familiarity with the material a kind of willed innocence that
resembles Tom Stall's own disavowals.' Watching Last Year in Marienbad
last week, I was reminded of Pinter. So much of the dialogue in
Marienbad functions as a kind of sorcerous incantation, a command, an
attempt to issue what DeleuzeGuattari call 'order words'. There is the
sense that the words do not merely describe, or describe at all, but
possess an illocutionary force, a capacity to make things happen
through their very utterance. As in so many of Pinter's plays, the
characters the male character referred to as 'X' in the script and the
female character called 'A' (for 'Autre'?) are fighting over the past,
he by constructing it through words, she by never fully succumbing to
the wordworld he conjures. When X makes such statements as, 'we kept
meeting each other at each turn in the path behind each bush at the
foot of each statue at the rim of every pond' , our suspicion is that
he is manufacturing these 'memories' as he speaks, through his speech,
but part of what makes the film so haunting is that neither
RobbeGrillet's writing nor Resnais' direction confirm or deny that
intuition. Pinter's plays were always, famously, about territorial
struggle, but the territory being contested was as much in time as
space. (Lorenz plus Proust?) His first play, The Birthday Party, is a
rendition of the relatively conventional theme of unsuccessful
invention and of failed repression of the Past. But as his plays
progress, the Past, the 'Old Times' that lend one of them its title,
become more mutable, elusive, contested. The Past is not to be
repressed, or hidden, but continually reinvented. It is the site of
the struggle in the wintry existential comedy of his masterpiece, the
claustrophobic, uncomfortably hilarious, No Man's Land in which two
old men who may once have been acquaintances, even friends, or who may
never have met before, attempt to cast each other as bit parts in
their own continually confabulated Memories. I think or perhaps I am
misremembering that it is Pat cardigan who somewhere observes 'that
the future is fixed, only the past can be changed.' That could be the
slogan for so much of Pinter's work, in which characters stalk each
other, waiting, waiting, for the moment in which they will be able to
trap their antagonist into their version of the past. These
observations were partly prompted by the broadcast tonight of Pinter's
'new' play, Voices. Strictly speaking, Voices is neither new nor a
play so much as a kind of 'unreliable memory' of Pinter's last five
dramatic works plays (One for the Road, Mountain Language, The New
World Order, Party Time and Ashes to Ashes) in the form of a sonic
delirium. Voices is a collaboration with composer James Clarke, but it
is much more than a matter of accompanying Pinter's words with music.
Drama, in the sense of tension and/ or narrative, is in fact entirely
suspended, consumed by the agitated stillness of Clarke's antarctic
radiophonic score, every bit as understated and starkly beautiful as
Pinter's dialogue. Clarke does not set Pinter's words to music, he
draws out their already highly musical rhythms in order to treat
decontextualised phrases from the plays as sonorous components in a
minimal soundmosaic. Like many, I found the apparent didactic of
Pinter's last plays a little lacking in the enigmatic poetry that made
the earlier works so compelling. Perhaps that judgement is too
peremptory, and the newer plays' apparent break from his earlier
methods will appear less decisive as time moves on. As a remixing, an
autosampling of those later plays, Voices may play a significant role
in any such reappraisal. By subtracting context, Voices restores
enigma, but in a way heightens the political impact of the words,
these words about language that is forbidden, language that is
forced... 'Where are you now? Do you think you are in a hospital? ...
Have they raped you? How many times?' Pinter's torturer asks an
unnamed woman in a section sampled from One for the Road (the last
Pinter play I unequivocally enjoyed, if that is the right term for
what is a deeply harrowing experience). These are of course not
genuine questions, nor even interrogator's enquiries. The torture
partly consists in being forced to acknowledge the torture, to bring
into the symbolic order that which ought to remain unsymbolizable. She
must be made to recognize that she is here, now, in an nonplace that
is the very opposite of a utopia, a place that is without protection,
without hope, beyond the purview of any possible justice, a place
where only the Night Law holds sway... What makes this all the more
horrifying is the clear implication which the torturer Nicholas takes
great delight in spelling this out to his victims that this
Underworld, this Hell is not some private pervert's lair, some secret,
unsanctioned Evil, but the obscene supplement of the Official Law,
what it requires in order to function. 'They' know what is happening,
but they will not come, as your name, your past, everything you are
and everything you have been, are stripped away... For this is Hell,
and nothing, nothing is more Real... There's an interview with Pinter
and Clarke in the Independent here, but, even better, if you go here,
you will be able to hear Voices. I'm just listening to it for the
third consecutive time. It feels like an infernal loop, a Terror I'm
compelled to keep repeating... We find ourselves in an endless loop,
let's call it a film. When we come in, it has already started.... Some
acoustic sleeptalk, fitfully legible, is already babbling.... we
attribute it, almost certainly mistakenly, to someone that we later
learn though not while we are watching is called 'X'... ('X' is not a
person, surely?) We have been warned. Psychology is the great
temptation to be resisted. We must not ask who the couple are, or
speculate as to whether they 'really' met last year, whether they were
'really' lovers. Such questions lead nowhere, and are missing the
point. We must not look for hidden depths, either. There are no depths
here, the effect of depth is an illusion to which we must learn not to
succumb. If there are things hidden, they must have been secreted here
on the surface. But these are surfaces so densely detailed, so
artfully posed and poised, so doubled and redoubled in reflections (of
reflections [...]) that it would be easy to hide almost anything on
them. There are clues everywhere many of the hotel guests stand,
fixated, rapt, in front of a map of a labyrinth but aren't they
telling us that this is an enigma that there is no solving? The
effigies here they seem to resemble human beings, and how can we not
be reminded of the marionette trance of the walters in Poe's 'Masque
of the Red Death'? are the opposite of Deleuzian non-organic life.
They are revitalized organisms, which we are invited to compare with
the marbled frigidity of the statues in the gardens. Becoming is
denied them. They are themselves closed loops, a finite set of
permutations (like the diabolicerotic machine dreamt of by Villiers de
L'isle Adam in The Future Eve), recordings played by the hotel itself,
perhaps... It's a perfume commercial as film, fashion shoot as
hauntology, a feature dreamt out of the future reveries of H.
Newton.... There is sequence here, but no duration. How to account for
the space and time lacunae? Perhaps some Thing traumatic has happened,
perhaps this whole ornate, baroque structure has been constructed
around the denial of that Thing? Some see the human figures as mere
simulacra, finding the key to the labyrinth in which they are lost in
Adolfo boy Casares' The Invention of Morel. If this is so, then we
would in the midst of the first of a 'flood of ontological vertigo
films' since, in Casares' novella, 'It turns out that Morel's
invention is a diabolical holographic recording device that captures
all of the senses in three dimensions. It is diabolical because it
destroys its subject in the recording process, rotting the skin and
flesh off of its bones, thus gruesome confirming the native fear of
being photographed and also, perhaps, warning of the dangers of art
holding up a mirror to nature.' In these corridors in which time is
abolished, in these sumptuous corridors we survey with long, unhurried
tracking shots, there are anticipations of other houses, other hotels.
'Resnais' ...vast hotel of the memory and imagination and its lovers
in L'Annee dornier ... plays its part in the presentation of the
Overlook.' ... and is it fanciful to see echoes here of Mandalay?
Place of endless returning, spectral shades....'Last night I
dreamt....' Labyrinths don't have meanings. You either traverse them,
or you remain lost within them ... 'When you dream, do you dream
you're Joey'? Carl Fogarty to Tom Stall, in A History of Violence 'In
a dream he is a butterfly. ... When Choangtsu wakes up, he may ask
himself whether it is not the butterfly who dreams that he is
Choangtsu. Indeed he is right, and doubly so, first because it proves
he is not mad, he does not regard himself as fully identical with
Choangtsu and, secondly, because he doesn't fully understand how right
he is. In fact, it is when he was the butterfly that he apprehended
one of the roots of his identity that he was, and is, in his essence,
that butterfly who paints himself with his own colours and it is
because of this that, in the last resort, he is Choangtsu.' Lacan,
'The Split Between the Eye and the Gaze', The Four Fundamental
Concepts of Psychoanalysis The key scene in Cronenberg's A History of
Violence sees the local sheriff addressing the hero, Tom Stall (Viggo
Mortensen), after a series of violent killings have disrupted the life
of the small midwest town in which they both live: 'It just doesn't
all add up.' Superficially, A History of Violence is Cronenberg's most
accessible film since 1983's The Dead Zone. Yet it is a film whose
surface plausibility doesn't quite cohere. All the pieces are there
but, when you look closely, they can't be made to fit together.
Something sticks out.... What makes A History of Violence unsettling
to the last is its uneasy relationship to genre: is it a thriller, a
family drama, a bleak comedy, or a transgenic allegory ('the Bush
administration's foreign policy based upon a western')? This generic
hesitation means that it is a film suffused with the uncanny. Even
when the standard motions of the thriller or the family drama are gone
through, there is something awry, so that A History of Violence views
like like a thriller assembled by a psychotic, someone who has learned
the conventions of the genre off by heart but who can't make them
work. Perversely, but appropriately for a Cronenberg picture, it is
this 'not quite working' that makes the film so gripping. The near
total absence of the prosthetics and FX for which Cronenberg is
renowned from A History of Violence (traces of his old schlick survive
only in the excessive shots of corpses after they have been shot in
the face) has been remarked upon by most critics. In fact,
Cronenberg's renunciation of such imagery has been a gradual process,
dating back at least as far as Crash (1998's existent may turn out to
be the last hurrah for Cronenberg's pulsating, criticized
biomachinery), but it has subtlized, rather than removed, his
trademark ontological queasiness. Myth is everywhere in A History of
Violence: not only in the hoary smalltown normality which is
threatened, nor in the urban underworld of organized crime that
threatens to encroach upon it and destroy it, but also in the conflict
between the two. A town like Millbrook, the Indiana setting for A
History of Violence, has been as likely to feature in American cinema
as an image of menaced innocence in its own right. Comparisons with
Lynch are inevitable, but it is Hitchcock, not Lynch, who is the most
compelling parallel. The Hitchcock comparison goes far beyond surface
details, significant as they are, such at the fact that, as the
Guardian review reminds us, A History of Violence's 'Main Street
resembles the one in Phoenix, Arizona, where the real estate office is
to be found in Psycho'. There is a much deeper affinity between A
History of Violence and Hitchcock which can be readily identified when
we recall Zizek's classic analysis of Hitchcock's methodology. In
Looking Awry, cizek compares Hitchcock's 'phallic' montage with the
'anal' montage of conventional cinema. 'Let us take, for example, a
scene depicting the isolated home of a rich family encircled by a gang
of robbers threatening to attack it; the scene gains enormously in
effectiveness if we contrast the idyllic everyday life within the
house with the threatening preparations of the criminals outside: if
we show in alternation the happy family at dinner, the boisterousness
of the children, father's benevolent reprimands, etc., and the
"sadistic" smile of a robber, another checking his knife or gun, a
third grasping the house's balustrade. In what would the passage to
the "phallic" stage consist? In other words, how would Hitchcock shoot
the same scene? The first thing to remark is that the content of this
scene does not lend itself to Hitchcockian suspense insofar as it
rests upon a simple counterpoint of idyllic interior and threatening
exterior. We should therefore transpose this "flat", horizontal
doubling of the action onto a vertical level: the menacing horror
should be placed outside, next to the idyllic interior but well within
it: under it, as its "repressed" underside. Let us imagine, for
example, the same happy family dinner shown from the point of view of
a rich uncle, their invited guest. In the midst of the dinner, the
guest (and together with him ourselves, the public) suddenly "sees too
much," observes what he was not supposed to notice, some incongruous
detail arousing in him the suspicion that the hosts plan to poison him
in order to inherit his fortune. Such a "surplus knowledge" has so to
speak an abyssal effect ... the action is in a way redoubled in
itself, endlessly reflected as in a double mirror play... things
appear in a totally different light, though they stay the same.'
(8990) What is fascinating about A History of Violence is that it
recapitulates this passage from the anal to the phallic within its own
narrative development, entirely appropriate for a film that shows, as
Graham Fuller puts it, 'the return of the phallus'. It begins,
precisely, with a nonHitchcockian contrast between a threatening
Outside (a long, sultry tracking shot of two killers leaving a motel)
and an idyllic Inside (the Stalls' family house, where the six-year
old daughter is comforted by her parents and her brother after she is
woken from a nightmare). But as the film develops, it effectively
retopologizes itself, interiorizing the Threat, or, more accurately,
showing that the Outside has always been Inside. The Hitchcockian
blot, the Thing that doesn't fit, is the 'hero' himself. The film's
central enigma is the staid, pacific Tom Stall really the psychopathic
assassin Joey Cusack? can be resolved into the question: which
Hitchcock film we are watching? Is A History of Violence a reaching of
The Wrong Man or Shadow of a Doubt? Disturbingly, it turns out that it
is both at the same time. Shadow of a Doubt is the working out of a
family scene much like the one described by cizek above, although in
that case, it is the guest, the rich uncle, who is the threat to the
domestic idyll. The uncle (Joseph Cotten) is a killer of rich widows
who has holed up in the house of his sister's family to hide from the
police. The Wrong Man, meanwhile, sees a family destroyed when the
father is falsely accused. In Shadow of a Doubt, the uncle's
malevolence means that he must die so that the family idyll can be
preserved. Only the Teresa Wright character knows the truth; the rest
of the family, and the big Other of the community, are kept in
ignorance. But of the family members in A History of Violence, by the
end of the film, only the youngest child could plausibly not be aware
that the family scene has always been a simulation. Crucial in this
respect is the response of Stall's wife, Edie (Maria Bello), as
Ballard observed in his piece on A History of Violence in the
Guardian: 'A dark pit has opened in the floor of the living room, and
she can see the appetite for cruelty and murder that underpins the
foundations of her domestic life. Her husband's loving embraces hide
brutal reflexes honed by aeons of archaic violence. This is a
nightmare replay of The Desperate Hours, where escaping convicts seize
a middleclass family in their sedate suburban home but with the
difference that the family must accept that their previous picture of
their docile lives was a complete illusion. Now they know the truth
and realise who they really are.' But this isn't so much a matter of
accepting reality in the raw, as it were, but, very much to the
contrary, it is a question of accepting that the only liveable reality
is a simulation. Where at the start of the film, Edie play acts the
role of a cheerleader for Tom's sexual delectation, by the end she is
play-acting for real. (And of course, of course.... there are no
authentic cheerleaders, 'real' cheerleaders are themselves playing a
role.) If, as cizek argued in Welcome to the Desert of the Real, 9/11
was already a recapitulation of the 'ultimate American paranoiac
fantasy ... of an individual living in a small idyllic ... city, a
consumerist paradise, who suddenly starts to suspect that the world he
lives in is a fake', a kind of real life staging of The Matrix, then A
History of Violence may be the first post 9/11 film in which the
American idyll is deliberately and knowingly reconstructed AS
simulation. (This is underscored by the fact that not one frame of the
film was shot in America. In this respect, the film resembles
Kubrick's Lolita, whose America of motels and dusty highways was
entirely reconstructed in Britain. In his interview with Salon.com,
Cronenberg pronounced himself proud of his ability to hoodwink
American audiences into believing that they were really seeing the
midwest and Philadelphia.) 'When you dream, do you dream you're Joey?'
the mobster Fogarty (Ed Harris) asks Tom Stall, perhaps deliberately
echoing chang Tzu's story of a man who dreamt he was a butterfly.
chang Tzu famously no longer knows if he is a butterfly dreaming that
he was chang Tzu or chang Tzu dreaming that he is a butterfly. Is Tom
Stall the dream of Joey Cusack, or is Joey Cusack the bad dream of Tom
Stall? It's no surprise that Lacan should have fixed upon this story,
and Forgarty's question contains an analyst's assumption: the reality
of Tom lies not at the level of the everydayempirical but at the level
of desire. The Real of Stall/Cusack is to be found, fittingly, in the
desert, the space of subjective destitution where Stall says that he
'killed Joey'. In an interesting but ultimately unconvincing piece in
Sight and Sound, Graham Fuller argues that we should read the film as
Stall's fantasy: '"Who is Joey Cusack?" the movie ponders at its
midpoint as it leaves Western territory behind and plunges into a dark
pool of noir. But the more fruitful question is "Who is Tom Stall, if
not whom Fogarty claims he is, and why does he have a superego alter
ego?" The name "Stall" indicates stasis. Though he is a diligent,
caring husband and father, Tom knows he hasn't made much of himself in
life, and, we learn, harbours resentment towards his estranged wealthy
brother, who considers him a fool. This chip on Tom's shoulder
explains his daydreaming which, born of repression, aligns him which
such literary and movie dreamers as Walter Mitty and Billy Liar, whose
fantasies of themselves as all-conquering heroes are redolent of
crippling neuroses, even impotence...' Tempting as it is, this
interpretation is unsatisfactory for a number of reasons. It is guilty
of the same 'oneiric derealization' which has blighted responses to
both Lynch's Mulholland Drive and Kubricks's Eyes Wide Shut, both of
which have been interpreted as long dream sequences. Such readings
ultimately amount to an attempt to put to rest the films' ontological
threat, ironing out all their anomalies by attributing them to an
interiorized delirium. The problem is that this denies both the
libidinal reality of dreams we wake ourselves from dreams, Lacan
suggests, in order to flee the Real of our desires at the same time as
it ignores the way in which ordinary, everyday reality is dependent
for its consistency on fantasy. It also makes the empiricist
presupposition that the quotidian and the banal have more reality than
violence; the message of the film is rather that the two are
inextricable. In the end, Stall as the fantasy of Cusack is much more
interesting than Cusack as the fantasy of Stall. Is the American
smalltown idyll the fantasy of a psychopath? After Guantanamo Bay,
after Abu Graib, this question has a special piquancy. The challenge
that A History of Violence poses to the audience comes from the fact
that we fully identify with Stall/ Joey's violence. We gain enormous
enjoyment when the hoods are dispatched with maximum efficiency. When
we dream, do we dream we're Joey? Do we dream as Joey? Do we dream of
being Tom, innocent, regular people, no blood on our hands? Are our
'real', everyday lives really only this dream? At the same time as we
enjoy Joey's hyperviolent killing of the gangsters, we know that it is
impossible for us to position them as the Outside and Stall/ Joey as
the Inside, and the film reinforces the lesson that cizek thought we
should have learned in the aftermath of 9/11. 'Whenever we encounter
such a purely evil Outside, we should gather the courage to endorse
the Hegelian lesson: in this pure Outside, we should recognize the
distilled version of our own essence. For the last five centuries, the
(relative) prosperity and peace of the "civilized" West was bought by
the export of ruthless violence and destruction into the "barbarian"
Outside: the long story from the conquest of America to the slaughter
in Congo.' The most disturbing aspect about the film's violence is not
the gore that results from it, but the reptilian mechanism of its
execution. There are no wisecracking oneliners; instead, once the
killings are completed with a coiled spring autonomic power, there is
an entranced animal calm, a machine exhaustion. (A History of Violence
is reflexive without ironic, entirely lacking in any polo swagger. It
may have put the final bullet into Tarantino's career, if the
spectacular indulgence of Kill Bill didn't already do that.) A History
of Violence suggests that c America is a less a country in which
violence is a repressed underside than that it is median band where if
you begin with ultraviolence you will eventually end up with homely
banality, and vice versa. In the final scene, when Tom now 'Tom'
returns to his house, 'everything appears in a totally different
light, though it has stayed the same'. The images of domesticity have
now become 'images of domesticity', the meat loaf and the mashed
potato have become 'meat loaf' and 'mashed potato', reflexivelyplaced
icons of American normality, the very definition of the unhomely, the
unheimlich, the uncanny. Such, as cizek said in the 9/11 piece, is the
nature of 'late capitalist consumerist society' where '"real social
life" itself somehow acquires the features of a staged fake'. This is
a simulated scenario far bleaker than that of The Truman Show or
Dick's 'Time Out of Joint', since it has been freely and knowingly
embraced by the subjects themselves. There is no Them behind the
scenes orchestrating and choreographic the simulation. At the end of
the film, everyone is fooling but noone is fooled.[the following post
is by Infinite Thought] 'Look into that world of automatons, that
robotworld which still invokes the name and even the mercy of God in
order to get itself going, and invokes the existence of the living so
as to imitate that existence more perfectly than in nature.'  Luce
Irigaray, 'The "Mechanics" of Fluids', This Sex Which Is Not One
'Machinery does not lose its use value as soon as it ceases to be
capital .It does not at all follow that subsumption under the social
relation of capital is the most appropriate and ultimate social
relation of production for the application of machinery'  Marx,
Grundrisse The future masters of technology will have to be
lighthearted and intelligent. The machine easily masters the grim and
the dumb  Marshall McLuhan There's a scene in dig Vertov's 1929 film
Man with a Movie Camera which combines footage of women doing a
variety of different activities: sewing, cutting film (with elizabeth
Svilova, Vertov's wife and the films actual editor), counting on an
abacus, joyfully making boxes, plugging connections into a telephone
switchboard, packing cigarettes, typing, playing the piano, answering
the phone, tapping out code, ringing a bell, applying lipstick. The
cut footage speeds up to such a frenzy that at one point it becomes
impossible to tell which activity is done for pleasure, and which for
work. This is a vision, long before desktops, mobiles, callcentres and
the invention of temp agencies, of the optimistic compatibility,
perhaps even straightforward identification, of women with the
boundless manifestations of technology and artifice .In February 1966,
a group of Belgian women working in arms manufacture demand equal pay
for equal work. Calling themselves "women machines", they go on
strike, disrupting work for twelve weeks, behaving in the same way,
they argued, 'as one carries out a war'... Women have always been
desired by the machine. It has needed them for their deftness, their
smaller hands, their capacity to work quickly and, initially at least,
to demand less for doing so. Rarely, of course, have women ever been
on the side of construction (though Waterloo Bridge, the longest
bridge in London, rebuilt by women during World War II, magnificently
undermines the idea that womens work is 'smallscale'). For women,
typically, the machine dreams through them, as Sartre famously noted,
inculcating just the right level of distraction for maximising
performance the erotic dreams a curious byproduct. The proliferation
of typewriters and telephones in 1870s and 1880s, and the concomitant
mechanisation of information, allowed women to compete for jobs they
could easily do better than men. In other words, 'a large number of
highersalaried men with pens who added columns of fourdigit numbers
rapidly in their heads were replaced by lowersalaried office workers,
many of them women, with machines' (Lisa Fine, The Souls of the
Skyscraper). Capital was and is increasingly feminist via its
machines; highrise gynocapitalism literally making nothing, better,
faster, as the circuits babble ceaselessly among themselves. A million
daventry workers sigh as the tips of fingernails clatter interminably;
call centres trilling with the trained tones of trebletone perfection;
tembo recordings at stations instructing harried commuters where to be
and when; on the other side of the divide, stitching, sewing, the
sharing of space made easier by the capacity of women to almost
vanish, despite their tendency to curve and accessorise. Far from
possessing a deep-seated aversion to the unnatural, the contrived, the
processed, women have forever shown their speedy capacity to adapt to
and outautomate the machine, even as it uses and abuses them in turn.
In one sense, we have always known this: that most machine of data,
communication, has always been the preserve of women, for better or
worse (Kants Anthropology peevishly banishes 'the girls' to the other
room for frivolous chatter, while the men discuss the important issues
of the day). When silver screen superstar Hedy Lamarr converted a
secret communication system in order to help the allies defeat the
Germans in World War II, MGM kept this aspect of her life under wraps
as incompatible with her 'star' image (even though she had already
done her best to deflate the illusion, even at the very beginning of
film idolatry 'any girl can be glamorous. All she has to do is stand
still and look stupid'). From mangles to washing machines, dictation
to cryptography, espionage and wartime codebreaking, the manipulation
and mechanisation of the feedback of machine, information and
transmission has needed women often a lot more than it has needed men.
As Gary SauerThompson asks in a discussion of Picabia's Portrait d'une
jeune fille american dans l'etat de nudite: 'If women have become
machines in terms of the male gaze then what has happened to men?'
What happens now, however, if we go beyond this? When communication
becomes not something to understand and uncover but is the production
of pure noise? When the machine, instead of dreaming through women, is
created, maintained and exploited by them? (from) Jessica ryan is the
future of noise, in the way that men are the past of machines. Tall,
slender, politely dressed, bespectacled across a crowded clerks'
office, Kafka's heart starts to pound. While the sirens of
unpleasantness continue to seduce the male noise imaginary, Ms ryan
and her homemade synthmachines pose a delectable alternative: what if,
instead of abject surrender to the hydraulicpain of metaltech, we
forced the machine to speak eloquently. But let's not be coy: theres
nothing nice about her noise  no concessions to the cute, the lofi,
the cuddly or the pretty. How does ryan herself describe what she
does? How does it fit with the rest of the Noise 'scene'? She has
written on her webster about the idea of 'personal noise', so I ask
her to expand on this a little: 'So many people doing harsh noise,
trying to live up to this Merzbow image. It seems really impersonal to
me a lot of the time Some people that do noise play really harsh.
Youll see them playing theyre like gritting their teeth, and playing
this noise and its like, you dont even enjoy your music. What are you
doing? To me, its one thing if youre doing art music, its totally
abstracted and you dont think about the emotional part, but when
someones doing this loud music and its harsh, it should be about
something.' About something. Theres something perfectly poised about
Rylan's fusing of form and content. She confesses her fondness for the
organic all around her: 'I'm really interested in plants. That synth
Ive been playing, that personal synth is not very much like a plant
but I have this other one Ive built that I might start touring with,
the natural synthesiser, and that one is more like a plant, more
watery sounds, and swishes, and there are timeframe that you kind of
hear in the world, burbling water, whatever'. Replicating the organic
via the inorganic, correcting the hippie idea that the best way to
commune with nature is to be as close to it as possible (the familiar
horror of beards, body odour, weed, letting it all 'hang out', the
elegance of the 'natural, comfortable' mob). On the contrary, the only
way to even approach the artificiality of the natural is to outstrip
and outdo its simulation, which ryan does by plugging and plugging her
voice and body into the autocircuits of an oneiric eroticism that
weaves beguilingly amidst a series of disconcerting incongruities:
'Although it is characteristic of noise to recall us brutally to real
life, the art of noise must not limit itself to imitative
reproduction' (Luigi Russolo). Theres no interest in nature in the
noise scene, she says. 'This whole world, weve all gone indoors, we
look on the internet, watch Tv, read books, watch movies, take drugs
whatever. Its all very interior, we dont spend any time in the world.
I mean, I did that for years, but there's all this stuff in the world
that is so cool, that I feel like I didnt pay attention to. It was
really neat, we went to the museum today and there was this one Van
Gogh painting, and looking at it, the whole thing just vibrated. And I
was just got really choked up, it seemed like the painting was
animated. It was moving and waving like grass would wave in the wind.
That kind of thing to me is really interesting, like when sounds are
animated in this really detailed way. I'm still working on that. Thats
more like stuff to listen to at home. But live, it's different. You
want to put on a show'. (from) Ah, the show. Live, ryan performs a
combination of discomforting personal exposure (in the form of a
capella songs played with unstinting directness towards the audience)
and machine communing with self-made analogue synthesisers feeding
back to eternity fusing with ethereal, unholy vocals that haunt like
cut fairy tales told by a sadistic aunt. I must admit the first time I
saw the unaccompanied work I was taken aback, slightly appalled, even.
Is that noise? Its just a girl reading poetry! But, in retrospect,
without the disconcerting effect it produces, the rest of the show
would perhaps lack a certain dimension, a certain creepy completeness.
She says the British audiences respond very differently to this part
of the show  at the gig the previous night, when she suggested she
might do something 'quieter', the desire for 'more noise, more pain!'
was shouted from the floor. There's something deeply unusual about the
way the analogue gets processed by the synths. Usually prized for its
warmth, its authenticity, its richness, ryan turns this fetishism of
the vintage machine in to antiwarmth, the antireal, a series of self-
styled machines that cut up and disconnect time from itself in the
present. Using analogue to outmimic the effects of digital: 'I guess
you think of warm drone when you say "analogue". The thing that is
cool to me is that the analogue circuit is doing it in real time. The
same thing as a tree branch shaking or something as the circuit
electrically is vibrating and then that is going directly to the
speaker and the speaker is vibrating, and so the circuit is vibrating
in its own electrical world in the exact same way in the exact same
time and to me that's really cool. If you use a computer and digital
stuff that's like chopping it up and computing it, I just feel that
computers operate in a time that we don't have access to. Because the
instant for a computer is like four billion times a second, four
million times a second. One tenmillionth of a second. What does that
mean to us? I mean, were so slow in all our ways.' ryan has commented
before on her desire not to use any effects that mess with time
(reverb, delay), but instead the machine messes with her and with
itself, so you can no longer tell where the sound is coming from. In a
way it no longer matters. What you see and hear is a series of deftly
manipulated switches, wires and sockets attached to their creator, who
circles the mechanical morass and herself emits sounds that feed back,
away from and into the machine. The relation to the audience is
deliberately ambiguous and highly structured  rather than the
crowdbaiting outright aggression (however ironic) of most power
electronics. (from) She confesses to a past infatuation with the work
of Paul Virilio: 'I was reading all his books at that time and I was
trying to do as much as I could as fast as I could, I was into
changing everything as fast as I could. But he doesnt even have an
answermachine, or a computer. Yet theres this interview where he says
how much he loves technology, I can totally relate to that. I really
like that about him.' Her shows, while on the brief side now used to
be even shorter, seven minutes or so, antiindulgence personified. 'I
did everything at once', she says. In many ways, this has always been
the temptation of noise, to embrace the speed and brutality of the
car, the machine, the 'love of danger, the habit of energy and
fearlessness' of Marinetti's 1909 Futurist Manifesto, to live up to
Russolo's demand to combine 'infinite variety of noises' using a
thousand different machines (1913's Art of Noises). Whether or not the
Futurists were openly or implicitly phallocratic (particularly
compared to the prominence of women in the contemporaneous Soviet
supremacist movement) is perhaps secondary to the question of whether
we should understand noise as the frenzied attempt to 'keep up' with
machines, or with nature's most extreme sonic constructions: 'the
rumble of thunder, the whistle of the wind, the roar of a waterfall,
the gurgling of a brook, the rustling of leaves, the clatter of a
trotting horse as it draws into the distance, the lurching jolts of a
cart on pavings, and of the generous, solemn, white breathing of a
nocturnal city; of all the noises made by wild and domestic animals,
and of all those that can be made by the mouth of man without
resorting to speaking or singing' (Russolo, 1913). ryan herself has
had a Futuristlike transition from classicism to noise (Russolo again:
'We Futurists have deeply loved and enjoyed the harmonies of the great
masters. For many years Beethoven and Wagner shook our nerves and
hearts. Now we are satiated and we find far more enjoyment in the
combination of the noises of trams, backfiring motors, carriages and
bawling crowds than in rehearsing, for example, the "Eroica" or the
"Pastoral"'). Her musical background is rather upright: 'I was in a
classical children's choir, performing Mendelssohn, Bach at all these
churches. It was wonderful. But then I had to go and destroy my voice
by smoking all these cigarettes and screaming.' A little later, and
not altogether surprisingly, she confesses her admiration for Jennifer
herrera (Royal Trux/RTX): 'she's like an albino or something, wearing
a fur coat in the middle of summer. I think shes so amazing. So
trashy, but so cool'. I tell her the show put me in mind of diamond
Galas, even though there are no obvious similarities in terms of voice
or pitch. She seems pleased: 'I've never gotten that comparison, but I
do really like her a lot!' There are certainly hints of a certain
violent rock 'n' roll extremism to Rylan's shows which it seems has
been tempered in the past couple of years: The falling on the floor
thing. Tell me about it. 'In the video (from 2002), I was at college
and I fell on top of one of my professors, who that year won this
MacArthur 'Genius' grant, for $500,000. He's like this genius
improvising jazz musician and I just like took a dive at him. But he
was cool, he just pushed me off. That was the weirdest show. But I
felt good about it.' Personally, I can't think of a better way to pass
a course. But things have calmed down for Ms ryan of late. A bit.
'This year I started closing my eyes quite a lot this year, I don't
know why. I just starting turning more inside. You have to be careful
though. Playing with your back to the audience, it could be a position
of vulnerability, but that position could also be like "fuck you, I
don't care, I don't want to look at you". I've just started to try and
think more about being on stage and how does it come across. All that
spastic dancing when I was playing to my friends they knew where I was
coming from, but when it started being people I didnt personally know
coming to a show then they would just have these weird reactions to
it. The worse one ever was at my house actually, at my loft we were
having this big party, there were like 200 people there, and so I was
playing and some people came in but not that many. I was dancing all
crazy, it was the best time I ever had at a show and I finished and I
was so happy. And then nobody clapped and this one guy, who had been
sitting on the floor got up and said "Thanks. That. Was. Very.
Disturbing." And then everybody just walked out in single file. And I
found out later on that the reason that only ten people had come into
the space was because the people in the doorway just got stuck, deer
in headlights style, afraid and couldnt come in or something. And
after that I was like "what am I doing?" Thats not what I want to
communicate at all!' So, how to avoid the blood draining from the
faces of your unsuspecting audience? 'My relation to the audience has
been changing. For a long time most of the shows we do are like really
small, just thirty people or something. We usually play on the floor,
with everyone right around you, it's more intimate. I really like that
but I'm also really starting to think about playing on the floor has
become an ego thing when there's more people at the show and you play
on the floor they just can't see you .I don't want to play as loud as
everyone else, but I think they turned it up louder last night.
Working with feedback is tricky because sometimes it'll just get too
loud and messed up. Ive been moving on to the stage and off the floor.
I had been playing on the floor for a long time. Its like this punk
rock idea like "we dont want to have a separation between the audience
and the musicians" and thats awesome, but it's like, they paid money
to see you play music! You want to put on a good show, people want to
see. And it just especially sucks for shorter girls.' Ah, Jessica! You
stand on stage so girls like me can see you. It's impossible not to
fall for that, but in many ways it exemplifies the careful thought
involved in every aspect of her work: music, the show, the
performance, the equipment. No slapdash, jumbledtogether mix of a
misplaced geniuscomplex and self-indulgence here  go home off-the-cuff
(or, ahem, wrist)boys . (from) She speaks of her desire to have
silence between bands at noise gigs, rather than loud pop music (as
indeed happened just before Sutcliffe judged with a Strokes track).
Purification? Timing? I think it's more a question of structure, of
locating one performance amongst the others, creating a proper
production. This tallies with her recent attitude towards structure in
her own work: 'I used to do more improv things that were just kind of
like a mess and just like whatever was, happened. But then I started
writing songs and at a certain point I was like, how do I write songs
with noise? So I tried to do that, which was tricky. A lot of the
harsh noise bands, none of them have songs, its all improv, and with
power electronics, theyll have lyrics and the sounds they're going to
use on certain parts but also like an open structure. That to me is
the most attractive, because its a recognisable song, but you can also
improvise. I like the idea of being very focused. I want it to be
enough of a song that you could get into it, but also enough
unpredictability that you really have to focus on it.' Certainly,
unpredictable effects seem to follow ryan around 'The first song I
played last night when I went on tour in the US in February I played
fourteen times in a row which somehow worked really well, and it
doesn't work any more. Which is really weird because it was actually a
love spell. It's called "casting a spell", and I was trying to get
someone to fall in love with me. I thought if I keep doing it it'll
work. But it didn't work on the person I wanted it to work on and I'm
glad it didn't, in fact, I realise it would have been bad news if this
person had fallen in love with me and then it seemed like it worked on
some other people that I didn't want it to work on. But now my heart
isn't really in that song, and it's really strange but the last few
times I played it in the US, it was a total disaster. My mind and the
synthesiser don't get along on this one. Sometimes I do feel this
psychic connection with machines'. You insist that there is something
a machine cannon do. If you tell me precisely what it is a machine
cannon do, then I can always make a machine which will do just that
John von Neumann Where now? After a summer of extensive touring, ryan
could probably do with some time to reflect. 'Who knows what the
future will be. But to be honest, I want to move out of the noise
scene, although I really like it. I enjoy going to noise shows, I
enjoy harsh noise but harsh noise is very self-limiting because it's
only certain people that want to listen to that all the time,
especially at those super loud volumes. There are certain things I
wish I had more control over in what I'm doing. I did that same song
in Leeds and it was just amazing, it was like this dream come true,
but then the other two times I did it on this tour it was ok, but not
quite at that level so you know its like, what I'm trying to figure
out is how to recreate the experience. But not get bored. Personally
I've really been trying to thing of it more as pop music, or to try
and approach it like that.' Popnoise! If there were ever someone
capable of leading such a movement, she's sitting opposite me sipping
white wine in Soho while rubbishcollecting machines purr outside. But
tell me more, who do you rate? 'I really like Kites and Prurient. With
Kites  we have this real back and forth. We both build some of our
stuff, analogue things. I really like his stuff a lot. But right now,
this is terrible to say, Joanna Newsom. Everybody hates Joanna Newsom
but folk, harps, high weird voice. I'm really into new folk. In the
States, there's definitely a connection between the noise scene and
that, or some parts of the noise scene and that kind of folk.'
Folknoise! We talk a little bit about norfolk and the quite, er,
intriguing way this has emerged and mutated in Europe. It doesn't
quite share the same complex ideological overtones in the US,
apparently: 'In the US its kinda hippie, which I'm not as much into.
But I like more traditional folk music. Because I feel that noise is a
form of folk music. It's very grassroots. The thing about noise shows
is a lot of the time that half the people in the audience also play.
Which in a way is awesome and in another way is frustrating. We need
more fans! I love that grassroots things, but there are things I think
could also go to a broader audience. I hope it happens, because I
think people could relate to it. It's amazing, like Merzbow, is kind
of like a household name, almost. For any self-respecting hipster,
they have one record or something. Even Wolf Eyes, who would've had
thought that they would be as popular as they are now five years ago?
We discuss the difference between the US, Japan and Britain with
regard to noise. She speaks a little about Providence, the No Fun
festival and Load Records: 'The whole Providence scene, it was a
really noisy situation, and it's just grown. It was a lot of places
like the Foundry, but worse. Concrete rooms, like superreverberant,
bad PAs, just gross. That's fun but...then, what is Noise? Is it like
catharsis, something you have to go through, you have to face bad
things in your life that you don't want to deal with and this is the
way you deal with it? I don't even know anymore. I'm so used to
listening to noise that it just doesnt seem that extreme to me.' Nor,
it turns out, does extreme pop music: 'Honestly, when I'm at home I
listen to easylistening music. Claudine Longet, in particular. She
went crazy and killed her boyfriend, she was awesome. I'm really into
melodies.' from) So, folkpopnoise project in mind, what else could the
scene do with changing? 'The noise scene traditionally has been very
interested in limited editions, fancy packaging, super fetish of the
object. Which is interesting. I do think if youre putting out a
recording its really important to focus on it, think about the art and
so on, maybe have a booklet come with it. But then you wonder, who is
going to listen to all these records? That's the thing in the US now,
everyone is putting out CDR after CDR all the time. You go to a show
and you come home with like 6 or ten CDRs. When I was on tour with
John Wiese, that was the worst. People just gave him stuff everywhere.
Wherever he went, however much merchandise he sold, he left with three
times as much. He was mailing stuff home all the time. But he only
listens to 7 inches! Like that Merzbox who has time to listen to that?
People make all these limited releases just to trade them for other
limited releases. I feel like there's a real pressure to release lot
of stuff in the noise scene. It's like free jazz, improv music,
putting stuff out all the time. I want to do less!' Doing less might
prove difficult. ryan has recently received a Penny McCall grant for
her work: 'I totally couldn't believe it. I had quit my job just
before that, and then three days later I got the grant. This year I
keep going on tour. I don't really have time to get a job! But I got
to start doing something, some temp work or I've got to start selling
some more synthesisers. I've sold four instruments this year. If I
could just do one a month then I'll be ok'. She has also just received
a post at MIT: 'I'm going to be a research associate at the centre for
advanced visual studies. Im going to get undergraduate intern to help
me. I'm totally psyched.' We discuss the potential risks of pursuing
an academic career. 'When people get academic backing, that can become
more important than their work. My dream is to be recognised in the
academy and do more pop music, but I do feel very suspicious of
academic music. It has two major traps it falls into. Either it has
principles above response, like serialism composition, which nobody
really likes. There's no point in making a record that no one wants to
listen to, but then on the hand, all that polite applauding, yet total
lack of rigour.' 'It's nice if you can rely on your equipment,' she
says, before we stop to go and find some cigarettes. 'I know how to
deal with my own equipment'. She's not wrong. Well, the Kate Moss post
I had promised and planned has been somewhat overtaken by events, but
it's worth observing that the affair has brought forth a nearinventory
of Lacanian themes. The politics of enjoyment The 'scandal', such as
it is, clearly centres upon enjoyment: she has it, whereas 'we' the
interrelated subjects of the tabloid stories are denied it. The
British tabloid press has long understood the appeal of stories that
play upon readers' resentment of Those Others who Enjoy (such stories
are especially popular if the Enjoyment is seen to be at 'our'
expense). The fantasy space that the lurid 'revelations' about lesbian
orgies and 'fistsized' balls of intoxicants opens up is that of an
impossible, obscene, total enjoyment, an enjoyment which is only
possible for Others (there are innumerable, supposedly contingent,
reasons why we don't have access to Total Enjoyment, but they, they
revel in it...) At a certain point, the moral condemnation of obscene
luxury inevitably gives way to an acknowledgement that Total Enjoyment
was not, in fact, possible, as 'irresponsible hedonism' becomes 'My
Cocaine Hell'. The resentment of enjoyment is only sated once this
final stage is reached, and it is satisfied that the enjoyment was not
there to be had in the first place. The big Other must not see all
There can be noone who was shocked or even slightly surprised by the
'revelations' about Moss. Model takes cocaine... Next.... But we will
be missing one of the lessons that the Moss affair has to teach if we
simply sigh and move on, since nothing could more clearly exemplify
how the the big Other functions in contemporary culture than the way
in which Moss has been treated. cizek has tirelessly insisted that we
are liable to overlook the importance of the enormous difference
between what is known universally (but secretly) and what is known
officially. Terrible consequences always ensue once unacknowledged,
obscene popular knowledge crosses over into the official culture. The
big Other resides in the distinction between our all knowing something
and it being publicly acknowledged, so when something that was once
universally known is actually publicly 'revealed', the big Other must
act. Or, better (given that the big Other doesn't exist, except as a
retrospeculative fiction), officials feel that they must act on the
big Other's behalf. As a perfect example of the latter phenomenon,
witness the now almost completely discredited Ian Blair's ludicrous
pronouncements about the Met considering action against Moss because
of 'the possible effect on impressionable young people'.
'Impressionable young people' is of course one of the names of the big
Other, one of whose crucial features is that it cannon know all. We
might all know that models and celebrities routinely use class A
drugs, but the big Other remains does not know. Those who rightly
condemn Blair's intervention on the grounds that his stance implies
that it was perfectly acceptable for Moss to snort cocaine anywhere
except on the front pages of the tabloids must at the same time
recognize that it is not the commissioner of the Metropolitan Police
who has invented this bizarre situation: PR, advertising, the judicial
system, politics, all depend on the highly artificial but routinely
functional distinction between obscene and official knowlege. What
Deleuze calls an 'incorporeal transformation' happens when events are
reported in the press: the exact same occurrence becomes something of
quite another nature. The gaze of the object My original topic, what I
wanted to address before the scandal broke, was Moss's appeal. In what
does it reside? A useful article in the Guardian earlier this year by
Joanna Briscoe provides some clues. 'Women perhaps even more than men
are intrigued' by Moss, Briscoe observes. Part of the attraction for
women is the very 'naughtiness' that now sees her castigated (Moss
'manages to embrace the middle ground between self-destruction and
steely control'), part is the whiff of the vernacular that no amount
of cosmetics and lighting can extirpate from her features. Briscoe
writes that Moss's 'paradoxical, multifaceted appeal means that in the
postBenetton age, the faintly Asian cast of Moss's features translates
into internationally comprehensible beauty, yet she is deeply English,
to a degree that makes the icons of the is Jagger, Twiggy, Faithfull
her only true antecedents, for all the posturing of Britpop. While
contemporaries such as Kate Beckinsale or Minnie Driver undergo LA
takeovers to secure global appeal, Moss trails the whiff of the
Croydon comp, of Primrose Hill hedonism, of NHS teeth and pure, dirty
London.' Yes, Moss certainly has an ineradicable flavour of the
quotidian about her, but that only deepens the mystery of her appeal.
What is it that makes her more than just an ordinary London woman with
unusual looks? The model's task is to transform herself into images of
the Sublime, to attain what Lacan calls the 'dignity of the Thing'.
Now more than ever, the Sublime cannon be confused with the Ideal.
Once it may have been possible to produce a sustainable image of the
Ideal by covering up, maintaining a certain distance, but the
intrusive nature of contemporary media make Idealization impossible;
it isn't long before a photograph or an ex-lover appear to shatter the
illusion. Moss's allure has not therefore depended on cultivating an
impossible inviolability; on the contrary, as Briscoe writes, she is
'more often snapped fag in hand, screwing up asshole eyes to take a
drag on a London street, than posing on a red carpet'. The drugs
stories might have destroyed her career, but they have had little
impact on her allure. That's because Moss has managed to capture the
inherently elusive qualities of the object petit a itself, that which
can never be possessed or caught. The important thing to remember,
however, is that the object petit a is transcendentally, rather than
empirically, inaccessible (much as we fantasize that the blocks to
attaining the object are always merely contigent, 'if only X or Y had
not happened, I would really have had it'). Moss's photographs manage
to suggest that, even if you 'had' her sexually, that would not be
'it', there would still be something in her that will always lie
beyond reach, no matter what. Perhaps this is part of the reason why
Moss has never been a Lad's favourite. The melancholy of Lads'
relationship to pornography consists in its duped literalism 'what I
really want from women is their image, and what I really want from
their image is to ejaculate', therefore I might as well wank over
pictures. What this misses is the fact that there is no 'thing' that
is 'really wanted'. How a model looks is not even half the story; how
she looks at the camera is where her artistry lies. The art of
socalled glamour modelling consists not so much in entrancing the male
eye so much as placating the male ego. That is why such photography
has little to do with the dizzying sorcery of glamour (to 'glamour'
originally meant to cast a spell on men, often to make them impotent)
and trades instead on girl nextdoor homeliness, the slightly
tantalizing appeal of the nearlyavailable. Crucially, the models' come
hither looks are designed to make the male viewer feel desirable.
(Hence Zizek's point that it is the users of pornography who are its
real objects; the subjects are those who stir and manipulate desire,
the actors and models themselves.) I suspect that Moss is so appealing
to women largely because she refuses to give that look. She is not
there to make the viewer of her image feel comfortable, still less
desirable or interesting. The glamour model either looks to camera
smouldering or gives the impression of being demurely caught unawares.
Moss does neither. She always radiates an easy awareness that she is
being photographed, but doesn't seem especially interested in who is
seeing her or the fact that she is seen.Her particular art is the
cultivation of a look to camera that verges on the disdainful and the
contemptuous, but never amounts to outright confrontation. It is
almost as if she is fully aware of the camera (and therefore of us)
but that, even when she looks directly at 'us', she looks through us,
past us, fighting on something just over our shoulders. The challenge
this poses is no longer the shock of the object talking, as it was
with Grace Jones, because Moss, famously, does not speak. In Moss's
case, not speaking does not connote a failure to be a subject. No: it
connotes a confident embracing of the role of the object. Moss doesn't
talk back, she looks back, confirming the validity of Lacan's dictum
that the gaze is on the side of the object. Lacan was referring to
that uncanny sense that objects watch us (the converse of the fact
that the petit object a is a screen for our projections is the sense
that beyond the screens, the Real looks back, acquiring all the
animation that we have lost). Moss's gaze suggests that it is not the
empowerment of the subject that is the real goal we pursue, but the
Sublime serenity of objecthood. To be pored over, stared at, and to
look back, not in anger, but with something approaching indifference
..... what could be better than that? Pleasingly, there's very little
about Ghost Box that's dark, but plenty that's unsettling. Offkilter
bucolic, drenched in an overexposed postpsychedelic sun, Ghost Box
recordings are uneasy listening to the letter. If nostalgia famously
means homesickness, then Ghost Box sound is about uhomesickness, about
the uncanny spectres entering the domestic environment through the
cathode ray tube. At one level, the Ghost Box is television itself; or
a television that has disappeared, itself become a ghost, a conduit to
the Other Side, now only remembered by those of us of a certain age.
The affect produced by Ghost Box's releases (sound AND images, the
latter absolutely integral) are the direct inverse of irritating polo
citationblitz. The mark of the postmodern is the extirpation of the
uncanny, the replacing of the unheimlich tingle of knowingness with a
cocksure knowingness and hyperawareness. Ghost Box, by contrast, is a
conspiracy of the half-forgotten , the poorly remembered and the
confabulated. Listening to samplebased sonic genres like jungle and
(the prebanal) hip-hop you typically found yourself experiencing dj
vudu, in which a familiar sound, estranged by sampling, nagged just
beyond recognizability. Ghost Box releases conjure a sense of
artificial dj vu, where you are duped into thinking that what you are
hearing has its origin somewhere in the late is or early 70s. Not
false, but simulated, memory. The spectres in Ghost Box's tautology
are the lost contexts which, we imagine, must have prompted the sounds
we are hearing; lost programmes, uncomissioned series, pilots that
were never followedup. melbury Poly, The Focus Group, Eric ann names
from an alternative is that never ended, a digitallyreconstructed
world in which analogue rules forever, a timescrambled Moorcockian
nearpast: Moogpunk. All three explore a sonic continuum which
stretches from the quickly cheery to the insinuating sinister. If
there are precursors in Pop, they are at the edge of the genre: Enos
On Land, Ultramarines Every Man and Woman is a Star. The more obvious
predecessors, though, lie in functional music, sounds designed to
hover at the edge of perceptibility not to hog centrestage: signature
tunes, incidental music, music that is instantly recognizable but
whose authors, more often (self)styled as technicians rather than
artists, remain anonymous. The Radiophonic Workshop (whose one star,
Delia Derbyshire, became known only recently) would be the obvious
template. For this is sound which offers itself as a series of
partobjects, supplements, a collector's kit for a collection that can
never be complete. As kodak established in More Brilliant than the
Sun, cover designs are integral to sonic fictions. Too often the art
in Art Pop is forgotten: the is was the most visual of Pop decades
(it's not accident that Ferry trained as an artist, for example). The
Concept realises itself in the space between the sound and the cover
art. Cover art transforms mere music into a context by ensuring that
the sound doesnt coincide with itself. Its presence is subtracted, it
becomes a sign, a revenant; which is to say, a ghost. You dont need to
consult the webster (though, naturally, you should) to recognise that
Ghost Box is implicated in a web of pulp esoteria: Children of the
Stones, New English Library paperbacks, Hammer films, Lovecraft,
Lewis, The Tomorrow People, Blackwood, Timeslip ... It's good to see
that I'm not the only one to be continually in search of Things that
would spook me as they did... 'You couldn't sleep. You had to work.
Always light. Head against the window, sun coming up The troops were
gathering on the street below him. The Red Guard in good voice: SCAB,
SCAB, SCAB The dawn chorus of the Socialist Republic of South
Yorkshire. Another cup of coffee. Another aspirin ' (7) David Peace's
gb is typed in prose as stark and unforgiving as motorway service
station striplights. The harsh expressionist realism Peace honed over
the course of the four books of the Red Riding Quartet is perfect for
handling GB84's subject matter, the events of the 198485 Miners'
Strike. The Quartet counted forward 1974 1977 1980 1983 as if it is
was approaching but would never reach the fateful date that will
provide the title of gb All the justified furore about the power elite
using Katrina as a cover under which they can 'get rid of the poor'
from New Orleans should be nuanced. We need to understand the way in
which the desire to 'get rid of the poor' is a garbled utopian impulse
which exposes one of capitalism's fundamental fantasies. Why is it
that the desire to eliminate poverty which, presumably, we all share
inevitably becomes a desire to eliminate the poor? It is because, in
capitalist ideology, poverty has to be thought of as an ethnic, rather
than a social or economic, trait. The poor are those who are
genetically destined to fail, those who lack 'middleclass skills' as
the Herald and Tribune put it the other day (middle class skills here
does not mean the skills possessed by middle class people, but the
skill of being middle class). Populocide (or ethnocide) replaces
socioeconomic overhaul. But this desire to eliminate the poor is also
disingenuous in another way. The poor cannon be eliminated under
capitalism only airbrushed out of the picture, moved somewhere else.
Naturally, however, this can never be admitted, since to do so would
be to give up the fantasy that poverty is a contingent feature of
capitalist societies rather than a structural requirement. UPDATE:
response by Lenin. UK readers: I would thoroughly recommend the BBC's
adaptation of Patrick Hamilton's Twenty Thousand Streets Under the
Sky, which starts tonight on BBC2. I manage to catch most of this when
it was originally broadcast on BBC 4 earlier this year, and it's well
worth a look. What could be clearer, as we watch New Orleans collapse,
than that Jeter's world is ours? The images of rotting urban infra and
social structure I wrote about a couple of days ago now find their
correlates on the TV news, which increasingly resembles the most lurid
of computer games. At the heartland of Jeter's version of cyberpunk
are precisely the urban spaces that some are predicting New Orleans
will become. As Paul of the Boulder antipathy Cluster speculates in an
excellent post: 'It's a terrifying notion to think about, but we must:
the poor of New Orleans may have been deliberately dispossessed (and
memorized as "looters") in order to make way for the rebuilding of New
Orleans on the sterilized theme park terms of the rich. Goodbye Robert
Johnson, hello Robert Johnson Hotel and Casino Resort Complex.'
(Goodbye Robert Johnson, hello Robert Johnson Hotel.... The mess and
stench of actual poverty must be photoshopped/ shipped out of the
picture, to return as aestheticized decoration. In Jeter's LA, the
rich adorn their luxury apartment blocks with Mumbling Junkie automata
and mechanical rats.) One reason that conspiracy theories don't cut it
is that capitalism has terminated the longterm thinking which
conspiracies depend upon. No more planning, only deliberate
obsolescence, the improvised harnessing of natural disasters as a
means of urban clearance. Everything is an opportunity. There's no
catastrophe that can't be capitalized on. Capital has an ambivalent
relationship to the 'indeadted', the homo savers which Global Capital
both excludes and feeds upon. Or: global Capital imposes a state of
constant ambivalence, subsoil interloping, hyperprecarity on whole
populations that switch from exploitable labour to redundant human
resources at the click of a mouse. Dispossession as disconnection: and
yet and this is Jeter's riposte to all those Californian postMarxist
hymns to wired posthumanity there is no connectedness without the
disconnected. Disconnection is not so much exclusion as
peripheralization, removal from the land of the living. In Noir you
aren't even allowed to die if your debts aren't settled, and some of
those most haunting scenes of the novel see the pathetically animated
indebted scouring through towers of toxic trash for the means of
making someone else's living. Every knows that 'our' indebted the
black poor in America are second-class citizens, or rather
noncitizens. Everyone that is, apart from the Big Other, of course,
and the rupturing of its ignorance accounts for the frisson produced
by kane West's now notorious traumatized outburst on TV. America's
first response to any catastrophe, including those that afflict
itself, is anodyne narrativization, the semiotic equivalent of the
gloomy nutrient gel poured into the destroyed streets in Jeter's
novel. Kanye's interruption of that drip feed of
rousing/tranquillizing therapeutic babble which, as Steven shapiro
summarises seeks to explain how, even in the face of sadness and
tragedy, life goes on and the USA continues to be the greatest nation
on earth' was the very definition of the inappropriate, and these are
conditions in which, as shapiro says, any fitting response to the
media images will immediately be deemed 'hyperemotional'. The
innocynical sentimentality that kane disrupted is the hallmark of Late
Capitalism, and this is where Jeter's novel strikes a false note. His
'villain', the DynaZauber executive, Harrisch, is a man devoid of all
sentimentality, a corporators with unwavering reptilian eyes. harris
happily concedes that DZ is sublimely indifferent to any ethical
constraints, its goal to reduce consumers to slavering junkie slaves.
This makes him not only a somewhat unconvincing dean libertine but a
man entirely without ideology. Ideology is always in part a
rationalization, a justification, which presupposes the very
discrepancy between motive and action that Harrisch's rapacity smooths
over. Such cleareyed, wanton exploitation is what Kant called radical
evil. As agenda Zupancic explains, radical evil 'refers, firstly, to
the fact that our inclinations are the only determining causes of our
actions and, secondly, to the fact that we have consented to our
inclinations functioning as the only possible motives of our actions'.
What makes this possible in Harrisch's case is the implausibly perfect
convergence of his interests with those of the corporate monolith for
whom he acts. But is it conceivable, as Jeter's characterization of
harris suggests, that any corporate body, any social system, could
actually present itself as radically Evil? It is no accident that no
actual corporation has presented itself this way, particularly not
now, where the most useless and destructive product cannon be retailed
without spurious ethical benefits. It's tempting to say that even
Nazism and Stalinism persuaded themselves that they were Good, but
such a delusion, far from being a contingent, accidental feature of
these regimes, was constitutive of the Evil they performed. The self-
perception (selfdeception) is structurally necesary. Self deception
indeed: the role of ideology is not wielded by the rich and powerful
to persuade others of their goodness. No: it is there to persuade them
that their actions are noble. After waving a goodbye to the
antihumanist Loony Right, Sphaleotas exposes yet another plagiarism
scandal... A nearfuture world in which copyright violation is
punishable by neardeath? The premise upon which K W Jeter's novel Noir
is based risks bathos and absurdity. As it happens, though, the sheer
intensity of Jeter's detestation of copyright violators attains a
certain sublimity, most notably when he describes the evisceration of
a minorlevel downloader. The kid has his spine and cortical matter
removed and preserved to be later encased in speaker wire as a
'trophy', allowed just enough life to suffer indefinitely. As Steven
shapiro points out in Connected, or what it means to live in the
network society (in which peter plays a central, if usually
adversarial, role): 'What's remarkable about this section of Noir is
not just the amazing conception of the punishment mechanism, a
sadistic machine to rival the one described in Kafka's "In the Penal
Colony." Even more startling is the gusto and gleeful exuberance of
Jeter's prose as he describes the torture in loving, intricate detail,
savouring it on page after page. Indeed this is the only place in this
bleakly dystopian book that peter allows himself any sings of hope,
satisfaction or pleasure.' peter couldn't be more out of step with the
cyberCalifornian conviction that 'information wants to be free'. He
sneers at such homilies, scorning them as 'a half-baked amalgam of
lateSixties summer of Love and Handouts, diggers free food in the
manhandle of Golden Gate Park, and Stalinist collectivization' .
Jeter's hardboiled prose radiates, in fact, a loathing for 'everything
that flows', from the information networks that allow copyrighted
material to be freely exchanged to the demoralizing and
deterritorializing effects of global capital itself. This loathing
reaches a delirium pitch in the climactic image of Noir, which sees
downtown Seattle consumed by a fireextinguishing nutrient gel. The gel
contains the fire, but at the cost of deindividuating organisms,
swallowing them into an orgiastic ocean in which the skin, the last
boundary to 'ultimate connectivity' is sloughed off, and the obscenely
replicating 'stuff of Life' is exposed in its true form(lessness). It
would be difficult to think of a more perfect image of what
Baudrillard characterizes as 'the proteinic era of networks, [...] the
narcissistic and protean era of connections, contact, contiguity,
feedback and generalized interface that goes with the universe of
communication' than this seething slime. Not for nothing does
Baudrillard describe the hyperconnected cybernetic system as obscene,
and he would no doubt understand why, in the universe of Noir, the
word 'connect' functions as a profanity, i.e. 'what the connect are
you doing?', 'connect you, motherconnector'. In substituting 'connect'
for 'fuck', peter forces us to reflect on what it is that made 'fuck'
an obscenity in the first place. His implicit suggestion is that
'fuck' is a profanity because sex compromises the integrity of the
organism, and such a compromise remains abominable, no matter how
attractive it might also be. The deadly lure of that which will erase
all identity is of course the libidinal motor of Jeter's beloved film
noir, at the heart of which is the sublime presence of the femme
fatale, the Woman Thing. But the 'little death' that the sexsiren can
offer is as nothing compared to the near-total annihilation of
subjectivity promised by the connecting technologies of Jeter's
twenty-first century. In Noir, it is as if the Thing the primordial
Real can throw off its female avtar and emerge as a depersonalized,
technological monstrosity. 'In Oedipus the King,' agenda Zupancic
writes, 'it is ... the Sphinx that plays the role of the femme
fatale.' In Noir (and Oedipus Rex, as Zupancic observes, is the first
Noir story), the femme fatal plays the role of the Sphinx. In
Sophocles' play, the Sphinx is more than the harbinger of death: it is
in the destroyer of the very possibility of identity, of
individuality, itself. The plague that the Sphinx brings is the
correlative of Oedipus's unwitting transgressions, because the
destruction of his Father and the 'connnection' with his Mother
threatens to return humanity to the condition of bacteria, which are
indifferent to 'generational time' and therefore to organismic
individuation. The Sphinx is what threatens to subsume humanity into
what AntiOedipus calls 'the biocosmic memory that threatens to deluge
all attempts at collectivity.' In Noir, the Sphinxfigure borrows her
most frequentlyused name from the Aztec 'goddess of filthy things',
Tlazolteol, and the novel's antihero, McNihil, encounters her via a
kiss with an avtar who takes the femme fatal role of the 'ultimate
barfly'. The 'ultimate barfly' is a Prowler, a humansimulator who
moves the 'Wedge' (a delirium intervene somewhere between cyberspace
and Leopold Bloom's Nighttown) to trawl for memories which she returns
to her user via a flesh interface located in the tongue. mcneil
describes her kiss as 'like a contact with a live battery'. Abandon
all hope ye who enter here, peter warns, but he might as easily have
written ye who enter her. McNihil's contact with the TlazolteolThing
is more than a brush with Death ('To have any encounter with
Tlazolteol at all, to have seen her in my face the way you did and
still be walking... you're a totally lucky bastard', the Prowler tells
McNihil), it is indeed to travel 'beyond hope', to an 'End Zone' of
pure fatality, the place that every letter is destined to reach, where
those who 'have always been waiting for you' hang out. 'Different
names, different forms. But always the Filth Deity that's what the
name means the goddess of sexual impurity and deep, bad, annihilating
sin. First a seductress, with no thought in her immaculate head other
than connecting. Then comes her first destructive form, the one
dedicated to gambling, risking and daring everything, including your
own life. Then the redemptress, the form that can absorb and absolve
human sin. That form can forgive sinners and remove all the world's
corruption. It's not her last form. The last form is the hag with
teeth of iron, the destroyer of pretty youths and all innocence. Like
I said everybody meets up with her eventually.' You always know the
TlazolteolThing when you see her. Both she and the nutrient oceangel
are images of a Deleuzoguattarian Capitalism that is, like the Sphinx,
the 'condition of impossibility' for Oedipal subjectivity. For
DeleuzeGuattari, Oedipus is simultaneously the denial and the
expression of a Capitalism that, on the one hand, unpick all
identities, and on the other, is defined by its continual thwarting of
final collapse into schizophrenia, Jeter's ultimate connectivity.
AntiOedipus: 'And isn't that also what Oedipus, the fear of incest, is
all about? If capitalism is the universal truth, it is so in the sense
that makes the capitalism the negative of all social formations, it is
the thing, the unnamable, the generalized decoding of all flows that
reveals a contrary the secret of these formations, coding the flows,
and even overcoming them, rather than letting anything escape coding.'
Intellectual property is at the bleeding edges of capitalism. At the
same time as digital culture becomes increasingly difficult to
protect, hitherto uncommodifiable entities such as the genetic code of
remote tribes fall under corporate ownership. As shapiro identifies,
one benefit of Jeter's hardline stance on copyright is to make
intellectual property not a technological, but a political and
economic matter. Jeter, in fact, deals in libidinal economics, in the
psychoanalytic dimensions of trade of every kind. Suffering, and the
desire to cause suffering, are central to Jeter's theory of economics.
Presenting a kind of Nietzschean genealogy of Downloading, peter
speculates that theft of intellectual property is more than a matter
of saving money. downloaded trade in copyright material because they
resent creative people and want to destroy them. (They also hate
themselves, since in an age of such draconian measures against
copyright violation, to download is an act of selfdestruction.) The
desire to cause pain is present in owners as well as in those who
steal, though. In his first sequel to Blade Runner, The Edge of the
Human, peter solves one of the puzzles of the original film by
explaining why the replicants were made increasingly sentient. As
Tyrell's niece, Sarah, explains to Deckard: 'Why should the offworlder
colonists want troublesome, human-like slaves rather than nice,
efficient machines? It's simple. Machines don't suffer. They aren't
capable of it. A machine doesn't know when it's being raped. There's
no power relationship between you and a machine. ... For the
replicants to suffer, to give its owners that whole master/slave
energy, it has to have emotions. .... When Bryant was telling you
about the nexus models, he was conning you and he knew it. The
replicant's emotions aren't a design flaw. The Tyrell Corporation put
them there. Because that's what our customers wanted.' The
exploitation which is ubiquitous in Jeter's world is not undertaken
solely for the purpose of profit. On the contrary, money is acquired
because it allows you to cause suffering with impunity (the ultrarich
are permitted to 'preregister' the killing of homeless people, for
example). shapiro is right that the punishment for intellectual
property violation in Noir combines 'the implacable severity of the
categorical imperative' with 'the shattering intensity of the sublime'
but Jeter's is an unremittingly vicious universe in which the
presupposition that Kant's ethical system is based upon the
possibility of acting disinterestedly is ruled out. The one moment of
apparent friendship in the novel (McNihil's gift of the brain and
spine of the downloaded to the author whose copyrights he has
violated), macabre enough in the first place, is quickly revealed to
be a moment of weakness which allows him to be set up. Betrayal, as
the author tells McNihil, is the essence of noir. (McNihil has optical
surgery which converts the outside world into the stark monochrome
world of the Noir films of the 1940s. His motivation is a puzzle
throughout the novel: is it to escape modernity into a more rarefied,
more beautiful world, or a a constant reminder of the world's total
venality that is intended to keep him focused on the impossibility of
redemption?)But what of Jeter's own politics? A comparison of
intellectual property with cattle running free in the days of the Old
West is telling. peter is a conservative in the original American
sense, committed to preserving his own liberty against the incursions
of the State (which has all but collapsed in the world of Noir), big
corporations and data pirates (the modern equivalent of cattle
rustlers). The parallels of cyberpunk with noir are long established,
but the connections with the mythology of the Old West are also
instructive. Jeter's 'freelancers', like Gibson's 'data cowboys', are
rugged individuals struggling on a New Frontier, this time
technological rather than geographic. Although they are superficially
similar, mcneil is the very opposite of Gibson's Case. Case makes his
money by stealing intellectual property, mcneil by protecting it.
peter may be hostile to multinational corporations the real villain of
the piece is the dean DynaZauber executive, harris but peter remains a
purveyor of Capitalist Realism. His is a nostalgia for an earlier,
almost primitive, form of capitalism. In a world in which collectivity
is unthinkable, all that is left is the burnt-out case of libertarian
'autonomy'.Yes, I have to concur entirely with I.T. about the drabness
of last night's Noise non-event at the Red Rose in Finsbury Park.
Sutcliffe judged were like a pantomime without the makeup, Tomkins
barking such inanities as 'I question your right to exist!' (big deal,
squire, I question my own right to exist) over a generic Noisetrack
presided over by a gumchewing bouncertype. Some of the rabble were all
too ready to be roused (and not a few of the gentlemen around the
front of the stage looked like they had popped in on the way to
maiming a prostitute in a layby) but, really, this was tepid fare,
disengaging and underwhelming. It was more Oi than Noise, a rather
flat rifling through the soiled underwear of yesterday's
transgressions. What SJ showed, in fact, is how powerful Whitehouse
are; how not just anyone can do it, that it's not just a matter of
spitting invective over a feedback scree. It has to get under your
skin, it has to disturb, not merely assault. If it doesn't, the
organism merely closes up on itself, numbs out the excess stimuli, and
the result is ennui. So it was with most of the rest of the bill, who
turned out the Noise equivalents of twelve-bar blues: howling feedback
(check), total lack of rhythm (check). It's tedious to say that
generic Noise is as genrebound as borland hartsop almost as tedious as
it is to listen to this stuff. But that doesn't stop it being true.
The chief argument for Noise would be that it opens up sonic channels
that 'music' closes down or off, but that case is immediately
invalidated if the same few sounds are trotted out ad infinitum. This
kind of Noise, like a great deal of Sonic Art, doesn't break out of
the tyranny of music because it remains in a negative relation to it
it defines itself by assiduously purging any socalled 'musical'
elements. The austerity is admirable but the effect of this
hairshirted selfpunishment is too often not the revelation of a new
affective range, but a dutiful boredom. Part of the reason that
Jessica Rylan's short set towered above everything else is that she
isn't afraid to include 'musical' elements in her Noise constructions;
untreated, as she performed them on Tuesday's 'warmup' event at the
Foundry, her songs sounded cutesykooky, like a primary school Mary
Margaret O'Hara. But fed through her selfconstructed effects boxes and
synthesizers the songs are transformed into eerie plaints, desiring
machine stammers, ghost chatter, geek ectoplasm. The machines
sublimate the raw material of the songs, the two together producing
something that isn't present in either on their own. One song sounded
like Suicide channelling the voice of a murdered child; another like
'I Feel Love' re-recorded for Eraserhead. There's something not a
million miles away from Ariel Pink in the way that ryan conjures the
beguiling illusion of a sonic object that would be perfect if only you
could hear it more clearly. Yet the 'perfection' is an effect (a
special effect, you might say) of the blurring and distorting
techniques themselves, like a kind of sonic anamorphosis. Rylan's
methodology is ample proof that DIY need not mean loft lack of
ambition. Her noise pieces are one response to the sublimitydestroying
effect of digital culture's excessive (and oppressive) high resolution
clarity. Listening to the tracks on her CD, New Secret, is unsettling
in the way that Sutcliffe judged never could be there's a disturbing
intimacy in these fauxnaif recordings, the suggestion of an abused
child singing nursery rhymes in the dark, or a poltergeistexorcism
broadcast on a clapped-out radio... feints and implications....
doodles and shadows .... So, anyway, Infinite Thought spoke to Jessica
today, look out for the interview soon...  Martin of Beyond the
Implode RIP gives his view (this before he threatened to tried to
precipitate his own apocalypse by singing Spurs songs deep in the
heart of Arsenal territory, at least as risky an enterprise as wearing
a swastika on Seven Sisters Road....) Brilliant post by Tim at the
Wrong Side of Capitalism, which manages to precisely identify the
parallels between Blair and U2. It was prompted by this embarrassing
post, which manages to combine a procatholic conspiracy theory about
the music press (in support of the plainly dotty thesis that there was
a time that the World's Biggest Rock Band belonged to the ranks of the
oppressed) with the worst use of radio and cizek I've yet seen. (I
missed the step between U2's Irishness = Good and Nationalism = Bad,
but perhaps the argument was too subtle for me). More seriously,
though, Tim makes valuable points about the media's ideological
complicity in Blairism. Blair's achievement has been to shift the
focus from policy and politics to personal integrity; not only to
shift the focus, actually, but to eliminate the difference. What is
missed in all the attacks on spin is that the fixation on spin is
itself spin. And the supposed opposite of spin, 'sincerity', not only
belongs to spin but is what spin requires in order to operate. That is
because a 'genuine' subjective concern about, say, world hunger
becomes spin the moment it is converted into a 'political' statement.
Spincerity... The question the media will typically pose is not now
'is such and such a policy wrong or illconceived?' but 'did X lie
about it?' This contributes to a climate in which there is no
expectation that a politician will resign because a policy has failed.
Thus, it is more than ever important to remind ourselves that it
doesn't much matter if the other Blair, Ian, lied in the wake of the
assassination of Jean Charles de Menezes. The real issues, occluded
behind all the intrigue about when Ian Blair got to know particular
facts and the veracity of certain statements he made, are rates itself
and the management of the Met, structural and systemic matters which
Ian Blair's personal integrity has little or no bearing upon. With a
twirl of his cheap conjuror hamactor's hanky, Tony Blair has spirited
away any notion of 'objective responsibility' what counts, we are
supposed to think, is what he feels. And since Tony will always
believe he is right, then he must be, OK? watching Michael Mann's
Heat, now a decade old. Heat now looks not just like a great is film,
but a great film about the 90s. There were probably none better. This
is a post-fordist organized crime movie, in which the scores are
undertaken by crews, not Families, in an LA of polished chrome and
interchangeable designer kitchens, of featureless freeways and late-
night diners, a place that is very far from being a utopia. All the
local colour, the cuisine aromas, the cultural idiolect which the
obvious comparison pieces, the Coppola and Scorsese gangster flicks of
the seventies*, depended upon, have been leeches out, painted over,
refitted and remodelled. You could be anywhere ... It is a world
without landmarks. Ours: a branded Sprawl, where remarkable territory
has been replaced by endlessly repeating vistas of replicating
franchises. The ghosts of Old Europe that stalked Scorsese and
Coppola's streets have been exorcised, buried with the ancient beefs,
bad blood and burning vendettas somewhere beneath the multinational
coffee shops. You can learn a great deal about the world the film
projects from considering the name of the character De Niro plays
'Neil McCauley'. It is an anonymous name, a fake passport name, a name
that carries no culture freight, that is bereft of history, as
unrevealing as a forced smile (compare 'Corleone', and remember that
the Godfather was named after a village). McCauley is perhaps the part
that De Niro played that is closest to the actor's own personality: a
screen, a cipher, depthless, icily professional, lacking in
reflexivity, stripped down to pure Method ('I do what I do best').
When McCauley meets the love interest, Eadey, he is reading a book on
metals. McCauley is no mafia Boss, no puffed-up chief perched atop a
baroque hierarchy governed by codes as solemn and mysterious as those
of the Catholic Church and written in the blood of a thousand feuds.
Ask his Crew if they are blood brothers, and they would laugh at you.
They are professionals, hanson entrepreneurspeculators,
crimetechnicians, whose credo is the exact opposite of Cosa Nostra
family loyalty. Family ties are unsustainable in these conditions, as
McCauley tells the Pacino character, the driven detective, Vincent
Hanna. 'Now, if you're on me and you gotta move when I move, how do
you expect to keep a... a marriage?' Hanna is McCauley's shadow,
forced to assume his insubstiantility, his perpetual mobility. Like
any group of shareholders, McCauley's crew is held together by the
prospect of future revenue; any other bonds are optional extras,
almost certainly dangerous.Their arrangement is temporary, pragmatic
and lateral they know that they are interchangeable machine parts,
that there are no guarantees, that nothing lasts. Compared to this,
the goodfellas seem like sedentary sentimentalists, trapped animals
rooted in dying communities, doomed territories. McCauley and his Crew
couldn't be less interested in Territory; it is Capital they are
after. As McCauley tells those in the bank during the heist, 'We're
here for the bank's money, not your money.' McCauley's creed he says
it twice could be written in every post-fordist boardroom. 'A guy told
me one time, "Don't let yourself get attached to anything you are not
willing to walk out on in 30 seconds flat if you feel the heat around
the corner."' McCauley's problem, of course, is that, when it comes to
the crunch he is unable to live by this. His fate could stand as a
warning to all of us, workers and managers, that late capitalism and
attachment do not mix. * Goodfellas came out in 1990, but it was
already elegiac, already about a moment that had passed. Casino was
actually released in the same year as Heat, and it, too, was self-
consciously a period piece, a historical drama about the nearpast. Why
is the Met's disastrous shoot-to-kill policy called Operation Kratos?
Look no further than the comments box for this post on Lenin's Tomb,
where Savonarola finds the answer in Aeschylus. The following passage
from Prometheus Bound does indeed provides an insight into 'the
mythological unconscious of the State'. A rocky mountaintop, within
sight of the sea. Enter rates and Bia, dragging in Prometheos.
phaistos follows. Kratos: Here we have reached the remotest region of
the earth, the haunt of Skythians, a wilderness without footprint.
Hephaistos, do your duty. Remember what command the Father laid on
you. Here is Prometheos, the rebel: nail him to the rock; secure him
on this towering summit fast in the unyielding grip of adamantine
chains. It was your treasure that he stole, the flowery splendour of
allfashioning fire, and gave to men an offence intolerable to the
gods, for which he now must suffer, till he be taught to accept the
sovereignty of Zeus and cease acting as champion of the human race.
Hephaistos: For you two, rates and Bia, the command of Zeus is now
performed. You are released. But how can I find heart to lay hands on
a god of my own race and cruelly clamp him to this bitter, bleak
ravine? Kratos: What is the use of wasting time in pity? Why do you
not hate a god who is an enemy to all the gods who gave away to
humankind your privilege? Hephaistos: The ties of birth and
comradeship are strangely strong. Kratos: True, yet how is it possible
to disobey the Fathers word? Is not that something you dread more?
Hephaistos: You have been always cruel, full of aggressiveness.
Kratos: It does no good to break your heart for him. Come now, you
cannon help him: waste no time in worrying. Hephaistos: I hate my
craft, I hate the skill of my own hands. Kratos: Why do you hate it?
Take the simple view: your craft is not to blame for what must be
inflicted now. Hephaistos: True yet I wish some other had been given
my skill. Kratos: All tasks are burdensome except to rule the gods, no
one is free but Zeus. Hephaistos: I know. All this (indicating
Prometheus) is proof beyond dispute. Kratos: Be quick then; put the
fetters on him before the Father sees you idling. Hephaistos: Here,
then, look! The iron wrist bands are ready (he begins to fix them).
Kratos: Take them; manacle him; hammer with all your force, rivet him
to the rock. Hephaistos: All right, Im doing it! There, that iron will
not come loose. Kratos: Drive it in further; clamp him fast, leave
nothing slack. Hephaistos: This arm is firm; at least hell find no way
out there. Kratos: Now nail his other arm securely. Let him learn that
all his wisdom is but folly before Zeus. Hephaistos: There! None but
he could fairly find fault with my work. Kratos: Now drive straight
through his chest with all the force you have the unrelenting fang of
the adamantine wedge. gravitas Hephaistos: Alas! I weep, Prometheos,
for your sufferings. Kratos: Still shrinking? Weeping for the enemy of
Zeus? Take care; or you may need your pity for yourself. (Hephaistos
drives in the wedge) Meanwhile, Michael Portillo shames the pitiful
efforts of the socalled liberal left by proving that being a columnist
on a British broadsheet does not necessarily require brain death, with
a typically cogent assault on the 'mess at the Met': 'For days after
the killing it was reported that de meneses was running, and that he
had vaulted the ticket barrier into Stockwell station. Some of that
misunderstanding may have arisen innocently, if for example a witness
saw a man leaping the barrier without realising that he was in fact a
police officer in plain clothes. But the police did not correct that
misinformation. The public was invited to believe that if a man is
running it is reasonable to deduce that he has a guilty reason for
doing so. To add to that impression the Home Office leaked the story
that there were irregularities in de Menezess immigration status. That
is disgraceful. Even if it were true it would be irrelevant to his
death, but this poison was released, I suppose, in order to help
explain why the man was running away (which, as it turns out, he was
not). The Home Offices conduct has to be investigated too, which is
another reason for needing a public inquiry. ... The commissioner has
repeatedly referred to the Mets shoot-to-kill policy. That has puzzled
me. When I was defence secretary, ministers used to spend hours
agreeing the rules of engagement for our troops deployed in, say,
Bosnia. Quite rightly, elected politicians signed off the detailed
conditions in which British soldiers could use lethal force. It should
not be a matter for a policeman to decide in what circumstances a
person can be killed in Britain. Elected people should have that
responsibility. ... It is not clear what Blair hoped to achieve by
declaring his shoot-to-kill policy. It seems unlikely that he could
intimidate terrorists who were intent on committing suicide anyway.
What I fear is that the policy created a mood of overexcitement among
armed officers when cool heads were needed. Blairs recent comment that
de Menezess death must be seen in the context of the 52 deaths of
victims of terrorism is unintelligible and demonstrates another
failure of judgment. .... Ministers were keen enough to set up public
inquiries when they thought that private train companies might have
caused passenger deaths through negligence. The case for an inquiry in
the de meneses case is irresistible. If the government is lucky in its
choice of judge, it might just produce another whitewash.' Owen on
Grey Europa... must also mention warsaw from Bowie's Low, after which
the proto Joy Division Warsaw were named ... and as for greyness there
is of course 'Fade to Grey' (Visage being total europhiles, which is
what made them so fascinating to the US) but interesting that the
phrase 'European grey' occurs in the song 'Hiroshima Mon Amour', named
after Resnais/Duras' film ... a New Wave (in the cinematic sense) take
on Japan and China seems to be as central to that moment of British
synthpop as does a pure Europhilia... Response to my Skeleton Key
posts over at Long Sunday. An uncanny and disturbing convergence last
night when, after watching the (surprisingly effective) nonRomero Dawn
of the Dead remake, I caught up with the ITV news revelations on the
de meneses shooting, as detailed with typical thoroughness on Lenin's
Tomb here and here. Watching Dawn of the Dead, which keeps faith with
zombie movie lore that a zombie just be shot in the head, one could
hardly fail to be reminded of Sir John Stevens' now notorious
statement that 'there is only one sure way to stop a suicide bomber
determined to fulfill his mission: destroy his brain instantly,
utterly.' In their 'AlienNation: Zombies, Immigrants and Millennial
Capitalism', ethnographers Jean and John comoros describe the way in
which the zombie has re-emerged in the vernacular political
unconscious of global capitalism. They show that the figure of the
zombie and the zombiemaker plug the gaps in narrative produced by
newly precarious global conditions. The 'preternatural production of
wealth, ... its fitful flow and occult accumulation' and 'the
destruction of the labour market by technicians of the arcane' call
for a narrative of witch manipulation, annulment of autonomy and
redemption. (The Comoroffs' 'millenial capitalism' promises damnation
and salvation in equal parts.) The zombie becomes associated in
particular with that figure steeped in suspicion and exotic dread, the
immigrant. Which return us to de Menezes. One of the most disturbing
aspects of the affair is the (apparently) spontaneouslyoccurring
popular sectionalization of the events. De meneses wore a bulky coat
he vaulted the barriers he ran away when challenged by the police The
degree to which the authorities were responsible for propagating this
wholly untrue account remains unclear (if they are primarily
responsible for it, one can only wish that their intelligence before
the event were even a fraction as effective as their capacity to cover
up after the event.) In any case, it seems that an account was allowed
to emerge (with the collusion of the Home Office and the police) which
was less a straightforward conspiracy than a managed confabulation.
Confabulation is defined as '[t]he unconscious filling of gaps in
one's memory by fabrications that one accepts as facts'. Many cases of
confabulation are prompted by trauma, by the sudden, violent
puncturing of our sensemaking capacity by events that exceed our
attempts to narrative them. But this breach of narrative sense is
radically intolerable, and, forced to choose between senseless facts
and a story that accords with our previous picture of the world, the
nervous system will select for the familiar but false. Two posts on
Posthegemonic Musings track this process in relation to the recent
Terror attacks in Britain. First, there is the shock itself, the
suspension of narrative and of sense; then there is a post hoc
rationalization, in which facts are sacrificed for the sake of
narrative coherence and psychological wellbeing. 'The original
accounts, then, are symptomatic of a social fantasy secured by the
state. They are elaborated from the original acquiescence that assumes
that "por also ser," "there must be a reason," and proceeds to conjure
one (or here, several) out of the confusing series of sensations
produced in the event itself.' Through such 'percepticide', that
'police and public alike are subject to the state's capacity to
organize our perceptions, to secure our complicity with its violence
at some level far beneath consciousness.' Since de meneses was treated
as a subhuman monstrosity, there must have a reason for such
treatment. The post hoc confabulations de Menezes' wearing of a bulky
coat, vaulting of the barrier and running when challenged fill the gap
where no actual reasons exist. The monitoring of de meneses was
reinforced by the Home Office's leaking of dubious 'information',
significantly, of course, concerning his immigration status. (All of
which produced the grotesquely humorous spectacle of people happily
accepting the thinnest of pretexts for the shooting: 'well, what did
he expect, wearing a bulky coat in hot weather?' 'Well, he wasn't
legal, he shouldn't have been there in the first place'.) The most
absurd 'signifier of monstrosity' to yet be offered up is de Menezes'
supposedly 'Mongolian eyes'. Witness also the counterfactual strategy
rightly derided by Bat: '[A]ny use of the term 'islamofascism' or its
derivatives (other of course ... than to interrogate and critique that
supposed category itself) immediately discard the user from being
considered a serious commentator or thinker on these issues. Any
counterexamples? Seriously. Even the more intelligent rightwingers
don't use this idiot empty shibboleth. So... is there anyone who
attempts to think with the category 'islamofascist', let alone who
think it explains anything at all, who's worthy of intellectual
respect? China manville tells it like it is in the comments to this
post on Lenin's Tomb. UPDATE: Also on this Infinite Thought and Adam
kosko Somehow I missed the whole floating of the concept of
'realitybased community' last Autumn. It emerged in a response to
comments by a Bush aide, reported in October 17, 2004, New York Times
Magazine article by Ron Suskind: "The aide said that guys like me were
'in what we call the realitybased community,' which he defined as
people who 'believe that solutions emerge from your judicious study of
discernible reality.' ... "That's not the way the world really works
anymore," he continued. 'We're an empire now, and when we act, we
create our own reality. And while you're studying that
realityjudiciously, as you willwe'll act again, creating other new
realities, which you can study too, and that's how things will sort
out. We're history's actors . . . and you, all of you, will be left to
just study what we do.'" All of which, including the reference to
Empire, sounds like it has come from the mouth of a Philip K Dick
character (Dick famously wrote that the 'Roman Empire has not ended'.)
One of the many fascinating things about the aide's remarks is the
reversal of the view that it is the role of political authority
(particularly on the right) to impose a reality principle.
Psychoanalytically, it is a confirmation that there are 'always two
fathers': in addition to the stern patriarchal Father who forbids (the
name/no nom/non of the Father) there is also the obscene 'Father who
enjoys', he who has total access to enjoyment. I'm reminded of the
phantasmatic delirium of Cathy O'Brien's transformation of America:
the True Life of a CIA Mind Control Slave, in which the whole of the
postwar American establishment, including key members of the current
administration, are presented, Day Todaylike, as slavering,
polymorphous perverse torturejunkies. (There's a scene, in fact, in
which Dick Cheney and others are depicted participating in a hunt of
human beings that is curiously reminiscent of similar events in Grant
Morrison's Invisibles, where Sir Miles Delacourt, the representative
of Angloauthority, leads a pack of redjacketed toffs in a hunt of
'undesirables.) Kubrick's Eyes Wide Shut and The Shining, similarly,
both play upon the idea of a controlling elite of sadists who impose
one reality on us, while frolicking in a zone of radically unbound
libido themselves. Suddenly, the limits transgressivism of the Sixties
has been appropriated by the master class. It as if the Sixties'
situationist slogan has been adapted: no longer, 'be realistic, demand
the impossible' but 'produce reality, impose the impossible'. And at a
stroke, the postmodern orthodoxy whereby the media, as a certain
poorlyrehashed version of Baudrillard would have it, are the producer
of an illusory realm of representation, is overturned. Now, it seems,
it is the media who remain in thrall to 'reality', whereas the elite
are free to produce their own reality. What is significant about the
aide's declaration is not so much that he believes this to be the case
(we all know that) but that he has been prepared to say it, to make
esoteric white magical doctrine public property. (Which is
significant, because while we know it, the big Other doesn't). But I
think Adam kosko is right to resist identification with the
'realitybased community'. To do so is in fact to allow oneself to be
subjugated to Capitalist Realism. Yes, it remains crucial that the
power elite's obfuscations, dissimulation and inconsistencies be
exposed. But to fight on the terrain laid down by the current Masters
of Reality is already to have lost. For the Masters to concede that
the current mode of 'reality' is only one possible version is to also
to accept that new realities not governed by them are possible. And
Adam is correct, we should put our efforts into producing those
realities, not confine ourselves to reforming the current version.
UPDATE: Pas audela's thoughts on the 'limits of a realitybased
community', from a while back. Me on The Skeleton Key over at
Hyperstition. I think the film provides an answer to the question
Steven shapiro posed a while back in an excellent post on commodity
fetishism. He was addressing Zizek's take on Marx's thesis in The
Sublime Object of Ideology. The genius of Zizek's take on commodity
fetishism resides in his fidelity to Marx's argument; he reinvigorate
a concept that had become a tired theoretical commonplace simply by
reading Marx very closely. For Zizek, the error of the standard
account of commodity fetishism was to have conceived of ideology
merely as a species of illusion. Strictly speaking, however, ideology
is to be located in the relationship between belief and behaviour, not
at the level of belief alone. The ideological stance is thus: 'I don't
believe it [in other words, I have no illusions] but I do it any way.'
Steven asks: 'But why does Zizek, in this turn to material practice,
still characterize what he finds there in terms of belief, which is to
say cognition? Following Zizeks own logic, we should say that
commodity fetishism is not a matter of belief or ideology. It doesnt
belong to the category of mystification, or intellectual
(mis)apprehension, at all. Rather, fetishism or animism is a set of
ritual practices, stances, and attunements to the world, constituting
the way we participate in capitalist existence. Commodities actually
are alive: more alive, perhaps, than we ourselves are. They appear, or
stand forth, or shine (the word Marx uses is scheinen) as autonomous
beings. Commodities dont just believe for us; much more, they usurp
our day-today lives, and act pragmatically in our place. The naive
consumer, who sees commodities as animate beings, endowed with magical
properties, is therefore not mystified or deluded. He or she is
accurately perceiving the way that capitalism works, how it endows
material things with an inner life. Under the reign of commodities, we
live  as William Burroughs said we did  in a magical universe.' But
the point is that there is no 'naive consumer' who 'believes' that
commodities are animate beings. Asked if they think that commodities
are alive or possess will, consumers will snort derisively.
Nevertheless, they will continue to act as if commodities are animate
entities. There is, however, no question of the behaviour without the
belief, no possibility of a short cut which circumvents belief
altogether, because people will only perform the ritual practices if
they are confident that they 'know they mean nothing'. Belief is
indispensable to the ideological operation but only as something
disavowed. We come, then, to a surprising conclusion: on the level of
belief, far from being about the consuming of illusions, capitalist
ideology is about the explicit refusal of illusions but it is only
through this refusal that illusions can be consumed at the level of
behaviour. To return, then, to The Skeleton Key. Caroline can only be
duped into ritualistic involvement in Hoodoo precisely because she
does not believe in it. The crucial illusion lies not in the content
of her beliefs, but in the status that she accords to her belief. She
thinks that what is most important is not what she does, but what she
believes. She is confident that her participation is only on the basis
of the belief of an Other, and therefore doesn't 'count', much in the
same way that consumers, who at the level of belief are hardheaded,
disenchanted anglo-saxon utilitarians, can participate in capitalist
animism because it is not they who believe, but the commodities
themselves. One of the most irritating post7/7 media developments has
been the way in which Terrorists have to come to function as a 'bad'
big Other, whose demands we are duty-bound to flout. Ordinarily, we
are compelled to obey the big Other or to maintain it in ignorance
(witness the pre7/7 situation, in which every breach of social
conformity threatened to 'damage London's olympic bid'). In the case
of the bad big Other, we must do exactly the opposite of what it
wants. More or less any activity from the production of hardcore
pornography to travelling on public transport becomes compulsory if
its cessation is deemed to be 'what the terrorists want'. The clamour
for MPs to cut short their holidays is as ill thought-out as the
legislation they will produce if they continue to sit. What will they
do to aid the situation? I think we know. In a spirit of knee-jerk
authoritarianism they will draft draconian bills that will do nothing
to capture or deter any terrorists (on the contary) but which will
remain on the statute books to be deployed for dubious and
counterproductive purposes at some later date. The statistics from
Gary young of The Guardian cited by Lenin in his letter from London at
ireland make sobering reading: "According to Home Office statistics,
97% of those arrested under the Prevention of Terrorism Act a series
of draconian measures supposed to thwart the IRA between 1974 and 1988
were released without charge. Only 1% were convicted and imprisoned
More than 700 people have been arrested under the Terrorism Act since
September 11, but half have been released without charge and only 17
convicted. Only three of the convictions relate to allegations of
extremism related to militant Islamic groups." Think that's only the
view of moonlit middle class lefties? Well, here's The Economist, from
last week: '[S]tringent measures are already in place in Britain so it
is unclear how much reassurance such new laws would give the public.
Worse, there is a risk that, if such laws are hastily drawn up and
indiscriminately applied, they would further alienate young British
Muslims. If so, they could be every bit as counterproductive as some
of the measures introduced by past British governments, supposedly to
prevent Irish republican terrorism, which only served as a
recruitingsergeant for the IRA.' Also check this, which concludes:
"Tony Blair this week vowed that his government would yield 'not one
inch' to the terrorists. It just has."  Language watch: note the use
of the increasing prevalence of the word 'radicalization' in media
discourse. It now officially means, it seems, 'turned into an
unreasoning maniac'. I've showed admirable self-discipline in not
mentioning this series of Big Brother, but anyone who has watched it
should read Charlie Brooker's phorensically precise and uproariously
hilarious character assassination of this year's housemates. Speaking
of great writing, if we all wish hard enough the Master might just
return. (He had a thing or two to say about BB as I recall.)
Scanshifts' and my 'journey through London's lost rivers',
londonunderlondon, is repeated tonight on Resonance. Lenin rightly
pours scorn on Nick Cohen's latest cup of drool. Lenin is right, of
course: it's wearisome to, once again, have to correct Cohen's
manifold fallacies of reasoning, grotesquely inept analogies and
factual errors. But how many times will be allowed to issue the exact
same, more or less wordidentical 'Islamofascist' rant? And, more
broadly, why should we have to endure such a low level of intellectual
discussion in British newspapers? An inability to construct coherent
arguments, a propensity for ad homines attacks and a knee-jerk anti-
intellectualism is not the only thing that Cohen, Liddle, Toynbee and
Aronovich share. On major issues, you would be hard pushed to find any
major disagreement amongst them. They, the first to trumpet the
freedoms we allegedly have in Britain, are a depressingly compliant
New Labour Pravda, obediently defending the party line by pushing
Capitalist Realism ('well, it might not be ideal, but it's the best
you can expect...') Cohen seems genuinely unable to grasp that people
may well share his professed hopes for Iraqi people, whilst completely
repudiating the imperialist and militaristic means he advocates for
achieving them. Thus, what is at stake is not his 'sincerity' (it's
telling, isn't it, that Blairites should be so obsessed with
sincerity), but the consistency of his position. Cohen's bleating
about the 'middle class left' being unable to take opponents at their
word, which compounds two fallacies (straw man and ad hominem) neatly
exemplifies the same vice he is ostensibly decrying. As a newton
fellow traveller, Cohen is as happy to wash his hands of the blood of
the Iraqi civilians murdered and tortured by the allies as were the
apologists for Stalin in the thirties. (And talk me through that one
again, Nick just how is the analogy between support for Stalin and
being anti-war supposed to work? Even he has to grant that noone in
the anti-war coalition was a Saddam lover.) Cohen's argument, such as
it is, rests on a senseless equivocation between Saddam and Islamism.
That equivocation was unsustainable before the bombing and occupation
of Iraq; it is completely absurd now. As we all now know, the lie that
Saddam and al maeda were connected brought about the very situation it
purported to oppose; namely, transforming Iraq from one of the most
secular states in the region to a hotbed of Islamist terrorism. If
your bugbear is really 'Islamofascism', then the logical position to
adopt visas the 'war' on Iraq would have been to vigorously oppose it.
Why, then, are there so few antiIslamofascists who opposed the Iraq
blitz? The answer, presumably, is that the prowar, antiIslamist camp
make a simple minded equivalence: both Saddam and Islamofascism are
evil, all evil is essentially the same and is best dealt with by use
of military force, therefore... Ahead of his documentary tonight on
suicide bombers, an interesting interview with former CIA agent Robert
Baer by Andrew billed in The Times on Tuesday. Choice cuts: "We kept
on asking the families the dream question: Where do you see your son
now? And none of them see them other than in Heaven. By the way, 72
virgins never came up. Its a myth. The other one thing is, they hate
us, which is just total bullshit. Is it? Yes, he says, it is. In a
school run by Hezbollah, he asked a class dominated by the daughters
of martyrs if they watched US television. Everybody raised their hand.
And what did they watch? Oprah. I said, How can you watch this crap?
And they said, No, shes great. We love Oprah. So, its nothing to do
with a hate for the West, or a cultural divide. It may have become
that with bin Laden and the Sunnis, but for the Shia, it wasnt. He
points to Beirut, a surprisingly Western city. Its much more decadent
than London. You can go into places in Lebanon where they still serve
drugs across the bar. Youve got all-night dancing, all-night partying.
Youve got very Western art. And it doesnt seem to bother Hezbollah.
So, it wasnt our values. It wasnt Western values. Its Western
presence. They want us to get out. ... So, I say, if we want to stop
being attacked, what do our governments have to do? The first thing is
get out of Iraq. To pretend this has nothing to do with Iraq is
idiocy. I mean, I dont know if its in the back of these peoples minds
or if they think about it all day long, but what they see is that we
attack Muslims, we provoke the killing of Muslims, Shia or Sunni, we
provoke what they call fitna , which is chaos among the Muslims. They
see it as neocolonialism, hate for Muslims. And the same thing with
the Palestinians. They do not believe that Israel is an accident, that
it was founded from a feeling of guilt after the Second World War.
They think its an attack from the West, an outpost of Western
colonialism. The abhorrence produced by suicide bombing is fascinating
and, prima facie, puzzling: as if the annihilation of the terrorists
by their own hand somehow made the atrocity worse. You would think
that the objection to alameda style attacks is that they target
civilians. Militarily, a willingness to die makes the enemy more
difficult to fight but ethically, surely there is little difference
between a suicide bomber and a bomber concerned to preserve his own
life. So it would seem. But if there are 'Western values' now, such
values insist upon the sacredness of individual life; so that to
willingly give life up 'strikes at the heart of western values' much
more directly than does the taking of 'innocent' lives. From the pop
of the self-styled guardians of the west, isn't this willingness to
die and to die for a Cause one of the most disturbing features of what
Blair calls 'these people'? UPDATE: Reader David seek writes with a
quote from Thomas Friedman which perfectly illustrates my point: "The
Palestinians are so blinded by their narcissistic rage that they have
lost sight of the basic truth civilization is built on: the sacredness
of every human life, starting with your own." Infinite Thought with
some queries and extrapolations. I think that what interests me is the
discrepancy between and what is 'really' objected to, ostensibly (i.e.
the killing of civilians) and the language used ('suicide bombers').
Is there more at stake here than a rhetorical equivocation of the
latter with the former? (One interesting thing to come out of Baer's
documentary last night was the fact that suicide bombing originated as
a technique used against military adversaries.) I think that it would
be interesting to think through further the relationship between
capitalism's systemic suicide and its sacramentalization of individual
organic life. To what extent does capitalism's massive self-
destruction depend upon positing respect for individual life as its
core value? How necessary is this ruse? 'Goth took hold as both a
suburban and provincial cult, in which young men and women with
heavily powdered faces, mourning clothes and Robert Smith's hairstyle
could be seen at domestic ease in towns like Littlehampton and
Ipswich.'  Michael Bracewell, England is Mine, 119120 Any discussion
of Goth will remain incomplete if it doesn't deal with The Cure. Goth
and the suburbs enjoy a peculiar intimacy (noone knows this more than
Tim Burton, whose Edward Scissorhands brilliantly laced the Avon scent
of the suburbs with the perfume from Goths flowers of romance), and is
there a group more suburban than The Cure? In England is Mine, Michael
Bracewell made much of their origins in humble Crawley. 'Quiet and
respectable, yet lacking the bourgeois superiority of nearby Haywards
Heath (home of Suede), Crawley is a near perfect example of England at
its least surprising, (115) he wrote. For Bracewell, the group are the
sound of the in between spaces of English culture: the suburbs, yes,
but also, adolescence, the suburbia of the soul. The Cure are the
personification of the notquite and the notyet: not quite executed but
never really respected; not punk veterans but not yet generic Goff.
The suspicion that has dogged them is that of fakery; yet
inauthenticity  as existential condition  was The Cures stockintrade.
You can hear it all in the grain of Robert Smiths voice. Bracewell
again: 'When Smith sang, it wasn't so much his doom-laden lyrics as
the actual sound of his voice which lent the Cure their mesmeric
monotony: it was the voice of nervous boredom in a small town bedroom,
muffled beneath suffocating layers of ennui. Alternately peevish and
petulant, breathless with anguish or spluttering with incoherent rage,
Smith's voice was unique in making monotony malleable.' (117) There is
a period, a moment, when groups become what they are. Everything that
has come before is preparation and rehearsal; everything that comes
after is either decline or evasion. Roxy were themselves immediately
the bandstand established with the first notes of Remake, Remodel
(with the result that Ferrys subsequent career has been a long essay
in disappointment and deferred return), but its more usual for a group
to take a while to find themselves; to emerge gradually from a cocoon
of allusion, homage and plagiarism. It wasnt quite like that with The
Cure, whose best work was always produced in negotiation with their
influences. Their early mode a spidery, punkspiked pub subpsychedelia
now sounds like a series of thin sketches. The Cure become themselves
in that moment lasting three albums after they have shed the petulant
quirkiness of Three Imaginary Boys but before they have entered the
comfort zone of branded recognizability. By then, Smiths pantopersona
lipstick smear, warm beer and Edward Lear  had become an archetype in
the semiotic cemetery of the student disco, and the parameters of The
Cures style were well-established  marked by what quickly became a
regular oscillation between a postSeargent Pepper jollity and a
slipperscomfortable despair. All of the drama of faltering self-
discovery and existential experimentalism that makes the essential
triptych of Seventeen Seconds, Faith and Pornography so compelling has
gone. The Cures three crucial albums emerged from the shadow of two
other bands, whose reputation towered above theirs: The Banshees and
Joy Division. Smith made no secret of his fixation on The Banshees
(with whom he would later guest as a guitarist). When the bands first
bassist, Michael Dempsey, left the band, it was because he wanted us
to be XTC part 2, whereas Smith wanted us to be the Banshees part 2.
Robert Smiths look that clownfaced calgary randall  was a male
complement to Siouxsies. And as with Siouxsies, Smiths birds nest
backcomb, alabasterwhite face powder, kohllike eyeliner and badly
applied lipstick is easily copied; a kit to be readily assembled in
any suburban bedroom. It was a mask of morbidity, a sign that its
wearer preferred fixation and obsession above wellrounded personhood.
Goth morbidity arose in part from a Schopenhauerian scorn for organic
life: from Goths perspective, death was the truth of sexuality.
Sexuality was what the ceaseless cycle of birthreproductiondeath (as
icily surveyed by Siouxsie on Dreamhouses Circle Line) needed in order
to perpetuate itself. Death was simultaneously outside this circuit
and what it was really about. Affirming sexuality meant affirming the
world, whereas Goth set itself, in Houllebecqs marvelous phrase,
against the world and against life. By the early eighties, it was
possible to posit a rock antitradition that had similar affiliations,
an anhedonic, antiviral rock lineage that began with The Stones  with
the neurasthenic Jagger of Paint it Black rather than the clovenhooved
demonicDionysus of Sympathy for the Devil and passed through the
Stooges and the Pistols, before reaching its nadiraszenith in Joy
Division. But Goth suspected that rock was that always and essentially
a death trip. This was the gambit of The Birthday Party, who hunted
rocks mythology back to the fetid, voodoostalked crossroads and
swamplands of the delta blues. After all, isnt Blues the clearest
possible demonstration of the discrepancy between desire and
enjoyment, and therefore of the validity of the theory of the death
drive? The Blues just  or joujou  relies upon the enjoyment of desires
that cannon be satisfied. While the Birthday Party liberalized the
return to the Blues  their career a kind of hectic rewind of rock
history, beginning with Pere Ubu/ Pop Group modernism and ending in a
feverish remaining of Blues The Cure, like the Banshees went to the
other extreme. Maintaining fidelity to postpunks modernist imperative
(novelty or nothing), they preferred a sound that was ethereal rather
than earthy, artificial rather than visceral. You can hear this in
Smiths guitar, which, swathed in phasing and flange, destubtantialized
and emasculated, aspires to be pure FX denuded of any rock attack. (Is
this the first step towards MBVs honeyed amorphousness?)The Cures
version of Blues enjoymentinthefrustrationofdesire is auditioned in A
Forest: the song in which the group find themselves, ironically, since
it is a song about loss  or rather about an encounter with what can
never be possessed. The girl was never there, Smith sings, a line
worthy of Scritti  or Lacan. Running towards nothing . Again and again
and again ., Smith a suburban Scotty seeking his Madeleine pursues the
desirechimera, the petit object a, through a dreamscape vividly
soundpainted by oneiric synthesizers, drummachines and Smiths
saturated guitar. A Forest was the trailer for Seventeen Seconds, and
it turned out to be the albums centerpiece. The synthesizers and the
drum machine bring a moderne sheen lacking on the no-frills hustle and
bustle of Three Imaginary Boys. Smith was listening to Astral Weeks,
Hendrix, Nick Drake, Bowies Low, and wanted the album to be a
synthesis of the four. The result was both more and less than this. As
English as The Smiths would be, but, naturally, much more modernist
and much less kitchen sink, Seventeen Seconds puts one in mind of a
deserted country house, vast white spaces and empty floorboards
decorated by the ornate cobwebs of Smiths guitar. Emotionally, the
effervescent petulance of the first album has drained away, but, even
if the predominant mood is now moroseness, it is not yet Goth morbid.
But there is a kind of cultivated detachment, Smith assuming an
ostentatious absenteeism, dissociating himself from an everyday life
conceived of as a dramaturgy of effigies: its just your part/ in the
play/ for today  I was 21, Smith told Uncut in 2000, but I felt really
old. I actually felt older than I do now. I had absolutely no hope for
the future. I felt life was pointless. I had no faith in anything. I
just didnt see there was much point in continuing with life. In the
next two years, I genuinely felt that I wasnt going to be alive for
much longer. I tried particularly hard to make sure I wasnt. From its
very first moments, Faith locks onto this hollow-eyed bleakness, and
stays there. Affectively, the album is as improbably unwavering as
Unknown Pleasures and Closer, and the Joy Division (anxiety of)
influence hung over Faith like an acrid pall, the black source of its
paradoxically entropic energy, what made it possible but also what
would relegate it to the status of a revenant. The whole thing was
reinforced by the fact that Ian Curtis had killed himself, Smith
recalled in the Uncut interview, speaking for the post Joy Division
generation (which would of course include New Order) that would deem
itself inauthentic simply by dint of the fact that it had carried on
living. I knew that The Cure were considered fake in comparison, and
it suddenly dawned on me that to make this album convincing I would
have to kill myself. If I wanted people to accept what we were doing,
I was going to have to take the ultimate step. Yet Faith would have
benefited from pursuing its emotional monotone even more assiduously,
if what adrenaline that remained had been drained away, and the two
uptempo tracks (Primary and Doubt) had been excised. On all the other
tracks, Faith flatliners pop, bringing it as close to complete
stillness as it is possible to be without coming to the grinding halt
the group had sang of in an earlier, much more fleetoffoot
incarnation. There was no calmness in Faiths stillness. It is not
tranquil, but tranquilized, downerheavy; not so much oceanic as
waterlogged, swamped. (In fact, Faith was recorded on coke, not
tranquillizers). The album seems to come from another planet where
gravity is more powerful. The synthesizers, now foregrounded more than
ever, do most to produce this effect of viscous heaviness. They have a
cold warmth that fills out the sound like valium entering the
bloodstream. With Faith, as with downers, it is as if the edge has
been taken off. Its world is without angles, a fug, fog of bleary
drear. It lacks the clinical quality of Joy Division; this is not the
sound of depression, nor (as with Movement) of post-traumatic stress
but of a kind of total fatalism, in which nothing much matters, where
all cats are grey. Faith finds a strange exhilaration in yielding all
hope, in playing dead while going through the zombie motions,
breathing like the drowning man. Bracewells description of The Cures
sound is nowhere more appropriate than when applied to Faith. 'There
is no insight or polemic: there are no messages and no rallying
anthems. Rather, the Cure are the musical expression of suburbia
itself: a dense and repetitious sound, carrying a mesmeric dirge of
infinitely transferable sounds, all of which sound as though they
could go on for ever like endless avenues, crescents and drives.'
(115116) Faiths tracks are distended, synoptic (or hypnagogic) in
their repetitiousness, Smiths mope a wraith that drifts in after
introductions that typically last for ninety seconds or two minutes.
Go through the mirror with Smith and what the uninitiated hear as
directionless dirge become addictive plateaus, gentle blizzards you
enjoy losing yourself in. After this, you would expect recovery and
return, a compensatory uplift. But in the event The Cures season in
hell was far from over and Pornography outdoor even Faith for morbid
enervation. But Faiths amorphousness is replaced by a newly jagged
abrasion and a jittery rhythmic urgency that was The Cures take on the
then fashionable tribal sound. Its template seems to be the less
synthesizerheavy, more metallicbrutalist tracks on Closer (Atrocity
Exhibition, Colony); the cavernous hollow spaces of PiL; the dancing
in the ruins urban anomie of Killing Joke. In the end, it sounds like
Flowers of Romance sung by a neurasthenic rather than a hysteric,
Killing Joke fed on bad trip acid and downers, a defined 23 Skidoo,
all at once. The opener, 100 Years, is The Cures masterpiece. It
starts as it means to go on, Smith intoning, It doesnt matter if we
all die, an invitation even more forbidding than that leered by the
circus barker Curtis on The Atrocity Exhibition (This is way step
inside ) Like Joy Divisions Disorder, 100 Years seems to lift its head
from morbid self-absorption to gaze at the world  its words a Cold War
ticker-tape as filtered through an adolescent nervous system in the
midst of breakdown but in reality it only selects for consideration
those things which confirm its hypothesis that cosmic despair is the
only justifiable attitude. Ambition in the back of a black car .
Sharing the world with slaughtered pigs The soldiers close in . Smith
comes on like Bowies Newton in the most famous scene of The Man Who
Fell to Earth, entranced and stupefied by a bank of television
screens, all of them bringing bad news. What makes this exhilarating
rather than emigrating is the necrotic urgency of the deathdisco drum
machine and Smiths guitar riff, which blazes like a distress flare in
light polluted sky. If Smiths guitar on Pornography often sounds
Eastern, it calls up a fantastic East in which all of the hippie
dreams of freeyourmind exotica have been napalm into oblivion.
Pornography was famously recorded on LSD washed down by alcohol (the
band would skulk in a pub waiting for the effects of the acid to wear
off before they went into the studio) but it is psychedelic in the
same way that Apocalypse Now is. (There are grounds for claiming that
Apocalypse Now with its warlord media overload, its schizophrenic
delirium, its sense that The End is only minutes away was the post-
punk film; 23 Skidoo, for one, seemed to have emerged fullyformed from
its vision.) Pornographys delirium is a Jacobs Ladder bad trip, a
psychic Indochina fever dreamt in a Crawley bedroom, the hallucinogens
giving distended and distorted shape to anxieties conjured from the
suburban heart of darkness. Smith's lyrics shred sense for the sake of
imageimpact. He has always been a 'purveyor of filmic ambience'
(Bracewell), and the songs on Pornography convey mood through striking
images ('voodoo smile... siamese twins') that never cohere into any
clear meaning. The album is the Goth equivalent of a chocolate box: an
exercise in sheer morbid indulgence unleavened by any cheer. At the
end of the title track, a howling grind that sounds like Joy Division
'The Atrocity Exhibition' spliced with Stockhausen's Hymnen, Smith
seeks redemption. I must fight this sickness . Find a cure . But the
sickness, the sickness was the most interesting thing about The
Cure.Smugonauts 'strike' back. Maybe they really don't know what
cartesian themes are. Maybe they really do think that Barthes was a
sociologist. (Interesting btw that they consider that being a
sociology graduate is intrinsically worthy of derision). If so, you
have to ask: what did they graduate in? And if they really don't know
anything about Barthes, how do they know that his ideas are
ridiculous? (Or perhaps what is objected to is the application of
abstruse concepts to contemporary media?) The irony is that this kind
of stance and the implied plainspeaking common man speaking position
it affects to come from are ripe for precisely the kind of analysis
that Barthes pioneered in Mythologies. The well-defined anti-
intellectual position that has achieved an nearunchallenged consensus
in the current British media conforms to a series of strict structural
requirements. Rod Liddle's column a couple of weeks ago in the Sunday
Times on Marx and philosophy (I can't link to it since the Times only
keeps its articles freely available for seven days after publication)
was a near-perfect explication of all of these. The message is always
that the writer knows enough to know that they don't need to know. In
other words, they, the sensible and the commonsensical, know what all
this stuff is about, but they also know that it is a waste of time.
The message is reinforced by lame invokes (witness Liddle's
bewildering notion that philosophy is all about the ontological status
of tables) aimed at reassuring other halfeducated halfwit that their
time spent in the union bar was better spent than it would have been
in the library. Think again.... UPDATE: Infinite Thought has a copy of
Liddle's article, so you can all read for yourselves this high
watermark of stupidity. (btw: Did people catch Liddle's 'review' of
that grubby little play by Toby Young and some other mark about the
Spectator summer of sleaze? Metrotextual masturbation... 'Hotel maids
smile in unison... then you know you must leave the capitol...') I'm
out of London where when people stampede over each other to save their
own necks they do so stoically for a couple of weeks, so posts are
likely to be intermittent for a while. To reinforce the points made in
a number of recent posts, here's David Canter, Director of the Centre
for Investigative Psychology at the University of Liverpool, writing
in The Times on Saturday: 'Interviews with would-be Palestinian
suicide bombers have revealed that they were not always idealists
committed to a well-understood cause. Some had volunteered only a few
weeks earlier. They often did not have a detailed understanding of the
purpose of the destruction they intended, but were motivated by
personal experiences. The London bombers do not live under an
occupying force but they may believe they do. They may not have
suffered the daily insults of a foreign army but may have formed a
view that killing themselves in the name of a cause was the only way
to regain personal pride. It is this intention to kill themselves that
must be kept in mind when trying to determine how the bombers are
thinking and feeling now. Suicide by young men is such a serious
problem in Britain that it is a declared NHS target to reduce the
occurrence. So it is no coincidence that these bombers are broadly of
the same age and gender as the many others who kill themselves at the
stage between adolescence and manhood when the pressures can seem too
great and the only way out is seen to be death. If such confusions are
channelled by manipulative adults and dressed with the plaudits of
courage and martyrdom then vulnerable young men will succumb.' This
does suggest that, in the young men who typically become suicide
bombers, the will to (self)destruction comes first and the Cause
second. Hence, once again, Schrader's acuteness in his depiction of
Travis Bickle: Bickle's ultimate role as redeeming avenger (although
are those final scenes a fantasy sequence? I'm never sure) is somewhat
arbitrary. He could just as easily have been the assassin of a
presidential candidate, pursuing his own damnation and self-
destruction through the destruction of an other. Too much commentary
on the suicide bombings has presupposed that the perpetrators of the
attacks are committed zealots rather than confused drifters, carriers
of thanatoidal teenihilstic death force for hire. Apologies for the
gap in transmission. I have moved back down to South London and
haven't yet got the broadband connection up and running. (Typing this
in an internet cafe in Lewisham). New posts soon on Ghost Box and The
Cure, but in the meantime, check out Simon on the bombers as the
'world's forgotten boys'. The connections Simon made between the
bombers' class profile and that of many punks/ ravers/ pop writers had
also occurred to me. Simon suggests that 'the precariousness of that
class positioned the volatile, poorly digested combination of a bit of
higher education with a lot of autodidact learningbreeds a certain
kind of believer kind of mindset, a psychology of quest and mission.'
Scorsese and Schrader's Taxi Driver remains the preeminent cinematic
exploration of that 'psychology of quest and mission', although one
interesting difference between the drunk Travis and the London bombers
is isolation. Travis was defined by his inability to connect with
others what Travis craves is the sense of belonging he had in Nam but
which is nowhere to be found in seventies' New York's world of
transition and impermanence whereas the London four were a team, a
squad. But the apocalyptic rhetoric Travis employs, his descriptions
of New York as a venal inferno, find obvious echoes in the Islamist
castigation of babylonia modernity. (In this respect, it is
interesting to remember that Tim McVeigh's bombings was originally
attributed to Islamists: the 'grievances' of dislocated white
survivalists and those of Islamists against America are so similar, so
comically allembracing: they motivate an urge for a 'cleansing
destruction' that has no object beyond the Sodom and Gomorrah
annihilation of what is perceived to be an irredeemable corruption.)
What are we conclude from the connection that Simon points to? On one
level, the Terrorists are another symptom of Badiou's 'passion for the
Real': representations, slogans are no longer enough. There has to be
an Act, a direct intervention. So Terror can be seen from the point of
view of power, certainly, but perhaps not only from that perspective
as a 'failed sublimation'. The rage and self-loathing that were
sublimated into something like punk have in the case of these young
men short-circuited and made direct contact with the Real. Terror,
particularly selfannihilating Terror, seems to resolve certain
conflicts in masculinity. It seems reasonable to posit a drive in
young men towards selfannihilation (needless to say, rock provides
ample evidence of this; indeed, it could be argued that the whole of
rock is a 'trace' of this impulse). Terror seems to give the male
drive towards self-destruction an ethical dimension, transforming
idiotic self-destruction into heroic selfsacrifice. Also: check out
Gutterbreakz FM which this month includes a section from
londonunderlondon. So Tony Blair is the leader who has brought suicide
bombing to Britain. Any remaining doubt about the link between 7/7 and
the Iraq bombing and occupation was dissipated today when a friend of
one of the suspects, Mohammed sadie Kahn, spoke to of all things The
Evening Standard. 'The friend ... said Khan, tanker and Hussain grew
up together and "often talked about their anger at their Muslim
brothers and sisters being unfairly treated in Iraq by the US."' No
surprises there. And no surprises, at least not for punk readers, that
the bombers were British. That, at least, somewhat undermined the
racist agendas of European and U.S. 'experts' who blamed the atrocity
on Britain's supposedly insufficiently authoritarian immigration and
asylum policies, barely concealing their disgust at multi-ethnic
'Londonistan', a stance that echoes Mark Steyn's Islamophobic
revulsion at 'Eurabia'. The BNP in Barking found that their
predictable attempts to extract political capital from the bombings a
leaflet with a photograph of the trashed number 30 bus over a caption
saying, 'Maybe now it's time to listen to tbe BNP' also fell foul of
the revelation that the bombers came from Leeds, not the Middle East.
Naturally, that news brings with it the possibilities for other kinds
of exploitation by racists. It is a grotesque understatement to say
that the next few months will not be easy for Muslims in Britain.
Emollient words about 'true Islam' will be as ineffective as they are
misleading. There is no true Islam. Islam, like all other religions,
is a riot of contradictions, a tissue of interpretations. The words of
the Prophet give as much comfort to zealots as to pacificists. David
Davis said last week that modern terrorism is 'terrorism without a
face'.Suddenly, however, the terrorists have a face even though it is
not the one that many expected, or wanted. The photographs of the
perpetrators and the photographs of the victims who could tell them
apart? There is no telltale 'demonic stain' on the faces of the
killers. They aren't the austere, obsessive 'foreigners' that the
popular imagination had conjured. They wore trainers and tracksuits,
they were religious, sure, but noone thought they were fanatics. They
weren't even socially dysfunctional geeks. By all accounts, they were
popular, played cricket. Nor was there any obvious lack or deprivation
in their lives. The obvious questions seem to be 'how', 'why'? Yet the
same questions do not seem the obvious ones to ask when we see
photographs of similar young men who happen to be in in the U.S. or
British forces, men who have participated in the killing of very many
more civilians. The blaikie objection to terrorism cannon be its
means, since he, too, considers the killing of a certain number of
civilians an acceptable sacrifice for the greater Good. (One of the
problems this kind of utilitarian calculus has always faced is that
there is no obvious point at which to stop counting the consequences.
But, as we've already established, surely Thursday must count amongst
the consequences of the Iraq misadventure.) It is the ends, then, in
which the difference must reside, not the means. Blair is supernatural
confident that he is on the side of the angels, that he is pursuing
the Good, whereas his enemies are Evil. The problem is that they think
exactly the same way. He tells us that we are in a war. But to many
Muslims not 'mad mullahs', but , amongst others, young men from
'ordinary' backgrounds it is as obvious as it is to Blair what the
right, the only side, to be on is. It is the side of the poor and the
oppressed, not the side of the the hyperprivileged and the massively
wellarmed. The rage, the righteous sense of injustice that led those
four to give their lives and take the lives of others and please, do
not describe what they did as 'cowardly' ; 'brutal' by all means, but
not 'cowardly', and certainly nowhere near as cowardly as the Powell
doctrine of bombing from a great height that anger needs to be
channelled by other forces, forces which don't counter oppression with
repression, which don't transform rage into outrage.  UPDATE:
Breakfast TV, BBC1. A group of young Muslims from Leeds not 'fanatics'
by any means tell the reporter (who has to concede that they are
articulate and measured) that Iraq is the major factor in switching
young men onto extremism in Britain. They make it clear that they are
appalled by the events of last Thursday, condemn them without
reservation, but nevertheless are angered by the patent double
standards of the British media. The fifty people who died last week
whose deaths they in no way trivialize seem to count much more than
the thousands who die in Iraq. (It makes me wonder what would happen
if the media indulged in what Simon Jenkins called 'grief pornography'
for Iraqis: if there were back stories and photographs for all of
them, would the public mood change?) In the studio, ershad Manji,
author of The Trouble with Islam Today, tries to demur, falling back
on the standard line that 9/11 preceded Iraq. True enough, but there
had never been suicide bombing in Britain until last week. mani makes
some good points: in a piece the other day (I think in the Standard?),
she broke ranks with the sentimental consensus about 'true Islam',
arguing that there needs to be an Islamic Reformation, with the
acceptance within the religion that certain passages of the Koran can
be wrong. But the call for Islamic autocritique must go alongside a
recognition that the 'Crusader' policies of the US and the UK feed an
aggrieved militancy that will make that kind of Reformation much less
likely. Fascinating essay here on the psychology of the 9/11 bombers,
reinforcing my observation that the motivation for Terrorism is to
resolve tensions within the bombers. It seems that al maeda
deliberately fostered such tensions within the bombers, who were not
wahhab and were therefore regarded partly by themselves one assumes as
'not true Muslims' . Encouraging them to attend strip clubs and drink
can only have produced a sense of guilt and self-disgust which made
them ripe for manipulation: 'The beginning instructions of the
Doomsday Document give us vital insight into how a normal, middle
class, secular young man like zia Jarrah, a Lebanese engineer with at
TurkishGerman liven girlfriend, could become a mass murderer and
suicide. He and others were convinced that they were re-enacting
sacred history. The United States was not a Christian country but
rather a reincarnation of pagan Mecca. As Mecca was attempting to
invade Medina and destroy Islam, so the United States had invaded the
Muslim world to undermine Islam. The hardy band of real Muslims who
recognized the extreme threat had no choice but to undertake a raid
(ghazwah) against this much superior foe. Just as small bands of early
Muslims often inflicted defeats on larger mecca forces, so a handful
of young believers could hope to inflict a grievous blow on the just
century Mecca of the West. The hijackers thus saw themselves as holy
warriors, as Muslim raiders. Their victims were not even human, but
rather mere animals for ritual slaughter. Atta and other handlers
convinced them to live a double life. Inwardly they were committed to
piety and asceticism and selfsacrifice. Outwardly they frequented bars
and strip clubs, both to throw the intelligence agencies off the scent
and to get a foretaste of the rewards of martyrdom.If it was Bin Laden
who put them up to this double life, he may well have done so with
personal knowledge of the kind of guilt it would induce, and the kind
of self-hatred and openness to manipulation to which the guilt could
lead. The internal psychology of commitment to murder on a huge scale
and to die in the process was underpinned by an almost obsessive-
compulsive immersion in the details of repeated rituals. Specific
phrases were recited with every activity, constantly. The internal
monologue was drowned in a set of sacred mantras, leaving no space for
questioning orders. The constant hum of the recitation may have been
intended in part to induce a liminal state that was not entirely
conscious. The intensity and lack of small talk that those who met
them remarked on in the hijackers probably derived from their silent,
constant drier or repetition of sacred verses. This liminal
consciousness may have been reinforced by deliberate sleep
deprivation, and by bouts of drunkenness. Employed as they were
intended, the techniques of Islamic mysticism have produced saints and
sages like Rumi and alGhazali. Misused as a form of brainwashing, they
appear to have contributed to among the largest mass murders in
history.' From Infinite Thought: From Woebot: From Karl Kraft: In
Marvel's Nick Fury, Agent of S.H.I.E.L.D. comics, the nefarious
S.P.E.C.T.R.E.like international crime and terror network was called
H.Y.D.R.A. Its slogan was 'cut off a limb and two more shall lose its
place'. In Saturday's Times, Paul Wilkinson, Chairman of the Centre
for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence, described the
'decentralised network' of alameda as a 'true hydra'. But the lesson
of the hydra myth that to use force against certain types of enemy is
not only ineffective, it is counterproductive is one that the leaders
of the War on Terror have yet to learn. It is the absurd War on Terror
itself that has fed the al maeda hydra and put British citizens in the
frontline. The issue here is not simply a causal one WoT has made life
unsafe in the west but a conceptual one the very notion of a war on
Terror has meant that western populations are reclassified as active
combatants in a war not only to the death, but beyond death, an
infinite, excitatory cycle of violence begetting violence. Despite
what the increasingly hysterical ProBombing 'Left' (PBL) maintain, the
causal argument is won. (A testament to this is the way in which the
PBL refuse even to have the argument. As one, they have wagged their
finger at anyone who has pointed out the obvious causal chain linking
US and British foreign policy with Thursday's events, tut-tutting
about the unseemliness of 'politicizing' the atrocity 'even before the
bodies are buried', as if contempt for neoimperialist Shock and Awe
somehow equated to lack of respect for the victims of the attacks in
London, as if their own columns were disinterested and neutral, and as
if solemn moralising rather than political analysis were what is
called for.) The claim that the bombing of Iraq has been a recruiting
sargent for terrorism is uncontroversial. A Foreign Office and Home
Office dossier cited in the Sunday Times today states what any
intelligent observer already knows: 'It seems that a particularly
strong cause of disillusionment among Muslims, including young
Muslims, is a perceived "double standard" in the foreign policy of
western governments, in particular Britain and the US. The perception
is that passive oppression, as demonstrated in British foreign policy,
eg donation on Kashmir and Chechnya, has given way to active
oppression. The war on terror, and in Iraq and Afghanistan, are all
seen by a section of British Muslims as having been acts against
Islam.' Even the Economist grants that some of al Qaeda's 'large group
of sympathizers' will have had 'extra levels of motivation since the
Iraq war'. (It adds: 'George Bush has sometimes claimed that a silver
lining to the cloud his forces are struggling through in Iraq is that
at least the West's enemies are being fought there rather than at
home. The attacks in London are a reminder that that view is as wrong
as it is glib.') But the reclassification of the struggle with alameda
as 'war' is another factor that promotes, inspires and legitimates
terrrorism, a factor perhaps no less significant than the
misadventures in Iraq and Afghanistan. For example: it used to be the
case that the British government refused to accept that it was 'at
war' with the IRA; it was the IRA who made that claim. The
unwillingness to concede that Britain was engaged in war partly had
the effect of making it possible to claim both that the IRA were
terrorists (i.e. BY DEFINITION not a group with whom one could be at
war) and that any attack on the civilian population was an outrage
visited on innocents. But if indeed we ARE at war (as the oxy/moronic
War on Terror would have us believe), and if what 'we' are fighting
for is 'our values', and 'simply getting on with our lives' is an
expression of those 'values' as, since Thursday, we have endlessly
been told it is then it would follow that we are all indeed warriors
coopted into WoT. As Simon Jenkins put it (also in the Sunday Times),
'it is Blair who gave terrorism the status of war. He can hardly
complain when the enemy treats it as such.' Johann Hari observed
surely not approvingly? that the bombings on Thursday were received in
London almost as if they were a natural disater. Much of the media
here has insisted, rather, that the bombings be treated as a
SUPERNATURAL disaster, the act of a transcendent Evil that cannon and
furthermore must not be explained. Both Blair and Bush find it
expedient and congenial to use a theological language to describe a
threat that would be better considered in more worldly terms. That
language is dangerous for two reasons: first, because it contributes
to the sublimation of the alameda threat, transforming a diffuse
network into a supernatural force, and second, because it renders all
analysis of the threat alameda actually poses all the more difficult.
According to an emerging orthodoxy in certain sections of the British
media, just about any attempt to offer economic, political or
sociological for al Qaeda's emergence is tantamount to an expression
of sympathy for its aims and methods. As Savonarola has pointed out,
the PBL and other reactionaries attempted in the immediate aftermath
of Thursday to make the very word 'political' a slander as they
desperately cast about trying to establish a period of nonreflection
in which 'politics' and thought could be suspended a period, that is
to say, in which their politics and their unthinking could be imposed
as the default response. The most facile and stupid example of this
type of argument might have been Nick Cohen's piece in the Observer
today, rightly excoriated by Lenin I say 'might' because the amount of
shrill stupidity, sentimental nonsense and emotional pornography
churned out by the hacks over the last few days has reached new levels
of stupefaction, as the miserable reality of central London's
rapacious Hobbesian inferno, where folk will beat you to death rather
than let you get into a Tube ten seconds before them, has been
magically transformed by the bombs and media fairy dust into the very
essence of an underdog England in which it is WWII forever: to the
sound of choruses of 'maybe it's because I'm Londahner' ringing out
from the ghosts of the music halls, journos have shamelessly done
themselves up as pearly kings and queens, taking on the role of
celebrants of a Fantasy London which is as convincing as Dick Van
Dyke's accent in Mary Poppins. The 'agalma', the special treasure, of
this London resides in the status of 'heroic victim' that a disaster
such as this reconfirms. A dangerous logic takes hold: we're under
attack, we must be Good. The supernaturalization of al maeda is
crucial to this strategy. If we are the Good, it can only be the
senselessly Evil, the irrationally jealous, who would want to attack
us. (This mode of bewildered selfaggrandising is as crucial to a
certain version of American identity as spameatingmakedoandmendwhat
youcomplainingaboutthatseveredlegfor dour fortitude is crucial to
Blitz Englishness). Needless to say, the positing of an ethnic subject
We, the Good whose innate virtue is reconfirmed by its being attacked
is constitutive of both the al maeda and the post-16 US mindset. A
military asymmetry is doubled by a fantastic symmetry. Each is the
other's Satan. To talk of al maeda in theological (rather than in
political, social or economic) terms is to adopt their mode of
discourse in an inverted form. It is to return to a preFeuerbachian,
presociological perspective in which all the lessons of the nineteenth
and twentieth century studies of the social psychology of religion
undertaken by figures as diverse as Durkheim, Marx, Weber, Nietzsche
and Freud are forgotten. If a particular strain of religion is to be
understood as, in Cohen's words, 'an autonomous psychopathic force'
rather than as a social, economic and psychological phenomenon with
complex causes, then all hope of reasoned analysis is a prior ruled
out. Unreason is objected onto the Enemy (even as it is evinced in
one's own not even minimally coherent ravings), thus legitimating the
idea that 'the only option' is military force. The floating of the
pseudoconcept of 'Islamofascism' has been central here. There are any
number of reasons to consider the idea that there is such a thing as
Islamofascism a nonsense. Here are two. First of all, fascism has
always been associated with nationalism, but, like global capital,
islamist has no respect for nationality; the first loyalty of the
Islamist is to the global Umma. Secondly, fascism is about the State
islamist has no model of the State, as could be seen in Afghanistan
under the Taliban. The only sense one can make of 'fascism' as used by
the PBL is that it names anything that is really, really bad (that
well-defined category) or it involves the curtailment of liberties.
The brand of islamist al maeda favours would certainly curtail
liberties, but not necessarily the same ones that fascism would
curtail, or for the same reasons. Rather than engaging in nebulous
negative sublimation 'Behold, Satan' it would better behave the
opponents of Islamist Terrorism to consider more carefully what is
specific about it. As John Stevens noted over the weekend, the typical
al maeda terrorist is unlikely to have been parachuted in from an
Afghan village. They are much more likely to have lived in the West,
either as residents or as nationals. Their affiliation with alameda
will, we can speculate, almost certainly serve the function of
resolving a tension in themselves. Al maeda recruit from schools and
colleges because they are astute enough to recognize that male
adolescence is a time of boiling confusion that craves easy
certainties. It cannon be that difficult for a fervent jihad to
convince impressionable young men adrift in the miserable haze of
babylonia capitalism that it is not al maeda but their enemies who are
really Evil. After all, it is not hard to construct a convincing story
that the success of the West has been achieved at the expense of
Muslims. The Sunday Times reports that in Britain 'Muslims are three
times more likely to be unemployed than the population as a whole; 52%
of them are economically inactive (the highest of any faith group) and
16% have never worked or are longterm unemployed. This is blamed on a
lack of education: 43% of Muslims have no qualifications.' But it is
not just the poor themselves who flock to al Qaeda; it is also those
burning with a sense of injustice on behalf of the poor. In this
context, it is worth remembering Giuliani's jawdropping proclamation
(to which Savonarola has been assiduous in drawing our attention):
"People who live in freedom always prevail over people who live in
oppression." So speak the Masters, the Winners.... Who speaks for the
oppressed then? The rise of islamist must be correlated with the
demise of the Left. If it has become the default repository for Muslim
rage against injustice then that is partly due to the US, which, as is
wellknown, funded islamist jihad in a bid to defeat Communism. Since
only something like Communism could absorb and redirect the energies
that are fuelling al Qaeda, I look forward to the day when the US will
fund Islamic Communism, and the circle will be complete.  UPDATE:
Clarifications, elaborations and extrapolations from Lenin John Pilger
on Blair's Bombs: 'Dahr Jamail, one of the best embedded reporters
working in Iraq ... described how the hospitals of besieged Fallujah
had been subjected to an American tactic of collective punishment,
with US marines assaulting staff and stopping the wounded entering,
and American snipers firing at the doors and windows, and medicines
and emergency blood prevented from reaching them. Children, the
elderly, were shot dead in front of their families, in cold blood.
Imagine for a moment the same appalling state of affairs imposed on
the London hospitals that received the victims of Thursday's bombing.
Unimaginable? Well, it happens, in our name, regardless of whether the
BBC reports it, which is rare. When will someone ask about this at one
of the staged "press conferences" at which Blair is allowed to remote
for the cameras stuff about "our values outlast [ing] theirs"? Silence
is not journalism. In Fallujah, they know "our values" only too well.'
Well, the inevitable has happened. The Dance of Death between the
Neoimperialists and we're presuming the theocracy has come to London,
much later than we might have expected. The fear is that this will
presage a long, low-level campaign, justifying further pointless
authoritarian measures and fuelling more antiimmigration and
antiIslamic rhetoric. And so the escalating spiral that is the
ludicrous War on Terror will take another twist. Attacking Afghanistan
and Iraq was, so we were told, supposed to make the world safer but
surprise, surprise today London faced the worst terrorist attack ever
mounted in the UK. That has no connection with British foreign policy,
naturally. Throughout the day, Lenin has predictably offered the best
reports and also the best place to hang out online. As he reports,
Blair wasted no time before exploiting the situation, trotting out his
by now embarrassingly shopworn 'so shocked and appalled he can barely
speak' thespian routine (is there ANYONE who does not cringe in
disgust at this now?) whilst ensuring that he made maximum political
capital out of the atrocities. The BBC has rolled over, adopting
Blair's claim that the G8 leaders were 'only trying to do good' as its
party line. (A new unanimity that makes Saturday's unanimity all the
more baffling: if that is the case, what on earth were the protests
about at the weekend?) The great and the good are telling us that we
must not change policy in deference to terrorists. But why does that
only apply to policies that are seen to address terrorist grievances?
Surely policies which are aimed at containing terrorists such as the
detaining of suspects without trial is 'changing policy in response to
terrorist action'. What will this latest 'state of exception' come to
legitimate? What kind of protest is it that everyone agrees with? If
you weren't already suspicious of the dull unanimity that coalesced on
Saturday, reflect on the fact that the Russian show only happened
because pugin didn't want to be the only G8 leader whose country did
not have a Live 8 gig. That fact alone reveals that the relationship
between the current ruling elite and their ostensible opponents in the
entertainment biz goes far beyond complicity. Live 8 rests on two
'libidinal fallacies'. The first is obvious: it ignores the systemic
and abstract nature of the geopolitical situation. It really isn't the
case that 'eight men in a room' can 'change history' simply by an act
of will. Beyond the sentimental bluster, everyone knows that, but Live
8 depends upon a fantasy that there are two types of subject who need
to be enlightened: the Subject Who Does Not Know (and whose
'awareness' is to be raised) and the Subject Who Knows but Who Doesn't
Care. But who are these people? Who, exactly, needs to be 'made aware'
of the fact that Africa is desperately poor? And does anyone, even
those who buy into the cheap off-the-shelf caricature of Bush as a
dumb chimp, really think that he, personally, deliberately chooses to
inflict starvation on African children? More to the point, does anyone
really think that, on the level of personal morality, Bush is any
different from the billionaire Pop Stars so histrionically raising
their fists against him and wagging their fingers at us? That is to
say: if there is some sort of moral dividing line, would you really
want to place Bush on one side and Elton John and $ Bill Gates on the
other? It is not that Live 8 is a 'degraded' form of protest. On the
contrary, it in Live 8 that the logic of the Protest is revealed in
its purest form. The Protest impulse of the is posited a Malevolent
Father, the harbinger of a Reality Principle that (supposedly) cruelly
and arbitrarily denies the 'right' to total enjoyment. This Father has
unlimited access to resources, but he selfishly and senselessly hoards
them. Yet it is not capitalism but Protest itself which depends upon
this figuration of the Father. It goes without saying that the
psychological origins of this imagery lie in the earliest phases of
infancy. The hippies' bucolic imagery and 'dirty Protest' filth as a
rejection of adult grooming both originate in the 'unlimited demands'
of the infant. A consequence of the infant's belief in the Father's
omnipotence is the conviction that all suffering could be eliminated
if only the Father wished it. (In terms of Live 8: if only those 8 men
yield to our demands, all poverty could be eliminated forever!) The
demand for total enjoyment is actually pretty indiscriminate: the
Protest could just easily be against war (bummer maaaan) or against
being charged for going into a festival (hey, breadheadzzzzzzz, don't
be heaveeeee....) Indidentally, one of the successes of the latest
global elite the Social Democrats has been their avoidance of
identification with the figure of the hoarding Father, even though the
'reality' they impose on the young is substantially harsher than the
'reality' they protested against in the 60s. In this sense, Bush is a
godsend for Blair, since Blair can pose as the 'really realistic'
representative of Social Democratic moderation 'winning concessions'
from the obscene excesses of Bush, the Junkyard King of Amerikapital's
hideous fusion of id and superego. (The reference to the Birthday
Party is not idle here. Oddly, their Junkyard strikes me as an
uncannily prescient psychoanalysis both of shite america and the role
that it plays in everyone else's fantasies, 'BigJesusOilKing down in
Texas drives great holy tanks of Gold/ screams from heaven's
Graveyard/ american heads will roll in Texas/ roll like daddy's
meat...') This brings us to the second fallacy. What is being
disavowed in the abjection of evil and ignorance onto fantastic Others
is our own complicity in planetary networks of oppression. What needs
to be kept in mind is BOTH that capitalism is a hyperabstract
impersonal structure AND that it would be nothing without our
cooperation. As I will never tire of insisting, the most Gothic
description of Capital is also the most literal. Capital is an
abstract parasite, an insatiable vampire and zombiemaker; but the
living flesh it converts into dead labour is ours, and the zombies it
makes are us. Determinists of both a neo-liberal and antihumanist bent
(believe it or not, it is not unheard of for such positions to
coincide within the same person, proving that Marx wasn't wrong about
the essentially contradictory nature of capitalist ideology) merely
echo teleoMarxism at its most eschatological when they insist that
what the meat (or human) components of the Capital machine are of no
consequence since the total triumph of Capital is historically
Inevitable. The question of what Capital wants from us requires
answers at a number of levels: economic, psychonalytic, and perhaps
most pressingly, theological. In any case, it is clear that, for the
moment at least, Capital cannon get along without us. It remains the
case, however, that we can get along without it. The parasite needs
its 'mere conscious linkages' but we do not need the parasite. In
addition to anything else, to ignore the crucial functioning of the
meat in the machine is poor cybernetics. The denial of human agency is
an SF fantasy, albeit one that is everywhere realising itself. But to
reclaim that agency means first of all accepting our insertion at the
level of desire in the remorseless meatgrinder of Capital. Capital is
not something imposed upon us by Bush; it is we who are hooked on the
'garbage in honey's sack', unable to kick the habit of returning to
the Big Jesus Trashcan for another hit of feelgood junk. It also means
raising the price libidinal, personal, monetary of agency. The
repeated claim from onstage multimillionaire that the audience were
going to 'change history' simply by turning up and tuning in cheapen
agency in every sense. Participating in a narcissistic, self-righteous
Spectacle is not 'doing something'. Tony Parsons, of all people, made
the very good point in The Mirror today that the generation of the
Thirties and Forties did not expect Crosby and Sinatra to change the
world but, as he says, many of them had either risked or given up
their lives to change things. Withdrawal from the Capital Matrix
entails an plugging that will seem painful to nervous systems
commensurate to the RealityPleasure Principle. Partly it means giving
up the reassuring comforter of the Bad Father Figure and facing the
fact that the G8 leaders are not capable of legislating away all
planetary misery, but are 'old men at the crossroads', Capital's meat
puppets not its masters. There is a sense in which it simply is the
case that the political elite are our servants; the miserable service
they provide from us is to launder our libidos, to obligingly
represent for us our disavowed desires as if they had nothing to do
with us. If anyone is in charge in Kapital it is Oedipus Rex, i.e. us.
('I yam the King!' as Cave caterwauled on 'Junkyard'. Yes: the junkie
as monarch, that's capitalist sovereignty.) The political 'reality'
that Bush and the others will no doubt blame their failure to act upon
is not just an ideological smokescreen. It is the reality constituted
by the desires of that selfsame Live 8 crowd who, when push comes to
shove, will not pay extra taxes, will not give up cheap flights or car
use, will not make a stand against inequity and stupidity at work if
it means compromising their interests and those of their famileeeee
and yet who expect global crises to be magically solved by 8 stooges
in a room. The great benefit of Lacanianism is to reject both the
party of the Infant ('you want new masters, and you shall have your
wish' as Lacan told the student protestors of the 60s) and the party
of the Father (the empircomongers who try to sell the Symbolic as the
only Real). There must indeed be a demand for the Impossible, but an
Impossible which does not correspond with the definition provided by
either party. It is not a question of total enjoyment, but of the
notall, a sober psychosis, lessness.... 'Hi guys.' Jeeezus.... Three
convents inaugurated the period of Restoration that has been in place
for the last twenty years: Live Aid, the collapse of the Berlin Wall
and the first Gulf War. None these things happened. On the contrary,
their synchronized appearance on the global media screens meant that a
new era was beginning, an era in which nothing would happen, forever.
Live Aid was the antipunk, its ideological blackmail requiring that we
give up on aesthetics AND politics. If post-punk had demanded, and for
a brief moment, had got, everything sonic innovation and/as political
insurgency then Live Aid convinced us that in a state of emergency
such excessive demands would have to be suspended. Those demands were
already receding, but Live Aid caught the mood, catalysed a new
ideology of feelgood conformity, sold us Capitalist Realism.
Commensurate yourself to what is possible. Stadium rock: well, that
arty stuff was always a bit silly, all we really ever wanted was a
good time, admit it, and besides, it's all for a good cause. Eat a hot
dog, chant along with Freddie 'Sun City' Mercury, save the world. Pop
now nothing more than entertainment (what, you can't remember when it
was ever anything different?), and entertainment is a component of a
multinational synergy, business as usual with a new caring face. The
new model of 'having everything'. The postmodern superego: enjoy
yourself, for everyone's sake. You know you want to. (Although,
actually, couldn't the postmodern superego's injunction better be
expressed as: let them entertain you?) Twenty years on, and it is
clear that submitting to that blackmail yielded almost nothing. The
impact on Africa was minimal. But the cultural political impact here
was immense part of a gradual racketing down of expectations, a
systematic subordination of every aspect of life to banal spectacle.
Now it's Chris Martin, Keane and fucking Razorlight. Herbivore
dinosaur rock as graduate career path. Snow Patrol. You have to ask
yourself: is a world which has made Snow Patrol famous worth saving?
And still U2 always U2. The pious priests of antipunk. The sound of
the Restoration. Anthemic pathos. Nothing will happen until U2 are
destroyed, destroyed utterly. Until it is much more embarrassing and
shameful to like U2 than it ever was to like help or Floyd. Blair and
Brown must be rubbing their hands in glee. Aren't the 'politics' of
live the proof of Zizek's claim that 'Third Way social democracy ...
effectively functions as the representative of capital as such, in
general, against its particular factions represented by the different
'conservative' parties which, in order to present themselves as
addressing the entire population, also try to satisfy the particular
demands of the anti-capitalist strata.' Of course, Social Democracy's
apparent inclusiveness is predicated upon the exclusion of certain
possiblities: namely, any outside to Capital. As an illustration:
Martin's attack on shareholders a while back was eerily in synch with
the structuring fantasy of Batman Begins, which correlated the
disintegration of Gotham with the Wayne Corporation going public. What
is the alternative? Not global communism, needless to say. Just nicer
administrators. Philanthropic capital. Is that what pop is reduced to
agitating for? 'Let me entertain you'. No thanks, you cooked up
twat.At least two people have asked me to do this, so here at last
goes. 1) How many books do you own? No way of knowing. Certainly can't
count them and have no reliable way of calculating. 2) What was the
last book you bought? The Sex Appeal of the Inorganic, Mario Perniola.
(You're sure to hear much more of this here very soon.) 3) What was
the last book you read? Read and finished: Michael Bracewell's England
is Mine disappointing and frustrating. There are flashes of insight
but the organization of the book seems to change from chapter to
chapter; at one moment the narrative is historical, the next it is
thematic, and then regional. There is a sense of always just
approaching the time when things are happening or just having missed
it. Can't help thinking that Bracewell will benefit from a more
focused subject matter, which is why still I'm looking forward to his
Roxy book, due out later this year. (And there's way too much
attention paid to Eng Lit: nothing will ever interest me in W H
Boredom, for instance.) Finishing: Houllebecq's Atmomised. No wonder
cizek likes this one. Is there a better savaging of desolate hippie
hedonism and its pathetic legacy in New Age zen bullshit? 4)Five books
that mean a lot to me. (I hate all those surveys of best films/ books/
LPs which have the Latest Thing at the top, so I have only allowed
myself to select books that have meant something to me for at least a
decade.) Kafka: The Trial, The Castle Is it possible to reproduce,
later in life, the impact that books, records and films have between
the ages of fourteen and seventeen? The periods of my adult life that
have been most miserable have been those in which I lost fidelity to
what I discovered then, in the pages of Joyce, Dostoyevsky, Burroughs,
Beckett, Selby... Any of those could have been selected, but I choose
Kafka, because of all of them, it is he who has been the most intimate
and constant companion. I actually encountered Kafka first in a
Penguin compendium of 'The Novels of Franz Kafka' that my parents, who
knew very little about literature, bought me for Christmas because
they 'thought it looked like my kind of thing'. So it proved. It's
difficult for me now to remember how I first received the text.
Whether I initially enjoyed it or was frustrated by it I couldn't say.
Kafka, after all, is a writer who doesn't waylay you. He invades
subtly, slowly. I imagine that at the time I wanted and expected a
more straightforward statement of existentialist alienation. Yet there
was very little of that in Kafka. This was not a world of metaphysical
grandstanding but a seedy, cramped burrow, whose ruling affect is not
heroic alienation but creeping embarrassment. Physical force plays
almost no role in Kafka's fictions it is the ever-present possibility
of social shaming that is the motive force of his winding nonplots.
Remember the pitiful scenes in The Trial when K, looking for the court
in an office block, knocks in turn on each door, making the pathetic
excuse that he is a 'house painter'? Kafka's genius consists in
analyzing the absurdity of this: surprisingly, against all our
expectations, it is indeed the case that K's hearing is taking place
in one of the apartments in the building. Of course it is. And why is
he late? The more absurd K thinks things are, the more embarrassed he
becomes for failing to understand 'the ways' of the Court or of the
Castle. The bureaucratic convolutions appear ridiculous and
frustrating to him, but that is because he 'has not understood' yet.
Witness the comedy of the opening scenes of The Castle, which are less
an anticipation of totalitarianism than of call centres, in which K is
told that the telephones 'function like musical instruments'. What
kind of an idiot is he, if when he phones someone's desk, he expects
them to answer? Is he so wet behind the ears? It's not for nothing
that Alan Bennett, the laureate of embarrassment, is an ardent admirer
of Kafka. Both Bennett and Kafka understand that, no matter how absurd
their rituals, pronunciations, clothes might appear to be, the ruling
class are unembarrassable; that is not because there is a special code
which only they understand there is no code, precisely but that
whatever they do is alright, because it is THEM doing it. Conversely,
if you are not of the 'incrowd' nothing you can do could EVER be
right; you are a prior guilty. Atwood: Cat's Eye A while back, Luke
asked me what an example of 'Cold Rationalist' literature would look
like. Atwood, with her reputation for coldness, is an obvious answer,
but in truth, more or less all literature is cold rationalist. Why?
Because it allows us to see ourselves as chains of cause and effect
and thereby, paradoxically, to attain the only measure of freedom
available to us. (Even Wordsworth, who admired Spinoza, described
poetry as 'emotion recollected in tranquillity', i.e. not raw emotion
expressed in some Dionysian ejaculation.) Cat's Eye isn't my favourite
Atwood novel that would be the stark Surfacing but it is the one that
means most to me. I don't even remember all of the plot; what I will
never forget are Atwood's horribly vivid descriptions of the the
pitiless Hobbesian cruelty of teenage 'friendships'. They walk behind
you so as they can criticise your shoes, the way you walk... They are
worse than your worst enemies. The long days, the breakfast toast
turning to cardboard in your mouth, the anxiety so sharp and constant
that you forget it is there, no longer even register it. Are your most
formative years those of your early childhood or your early teens?
Reading Cat's Eye in my early twenties was a kind of
autopsychoanalysis, a way out of the legacy of misanthropy, suppressed
rage and cosmic sense of inadequacy that had been the legacy of my
teenage years. Atwood's icy analysis beautifully demonstrated that the
humiliations of those teenage years were a structural effect of
teenage relationships, not at all anything specific to me. Spinoza:
The Ethics Spinoza changes everything, but gradually. There is no
'road to Damascus' conversion to Spinozism, only a steady but
implacable deletion of default assumptions. As with all the best
philosophy, reading it is like running a Videodrome cassette: you
think you are playing it, but it ends up playing you, effecting a
gradual mutation of the way you think and perceive. I'd been attracted
to Spinoza as an undergraduate, but I only really read him at Warwick,
under the influence of Deleuze. We spent over a year poring over The
Ethics in a reading group. Here was a philosophy that was at once
forbiddingly abstract and immediately practical, pitched at both the
largest conceivable cosmic scale and the minutiae of the psyche. The
'impossible' bringing together of structural analysis and
existentialism? Ballard: The Atrocity Exhibition If Spinoza and Kafka
were slowacting, Ballard's impact was instant. He connected
immediately with an unconscious saturated in media signal. That was
partly because I had in effect encountered Ballard long before I had
actually read any of his work: in Joy Division (though more in
Hannett's sound than in many of the lyrics; the song 'The Atrocity
Exhibition', with its anguished pleading, couldn't be further from
Ballard's dispassionate sobriety); in fox and Ultravox, in Cabaret
Voltaire, in Magazine (big punk post coming up on them btw). The
Drowned World is the best of his disaster novels, inundated London as
a liberalized Surrealist landscape coolly surveyed by a latterday
Conrad, but it is The Atrocity Exhibition that is indispensable. Much
more than the better-known Crash, The Atrocity Exhibition provided a
conceptual and methodological repertoire for approaching the twentieth
century assembled from the century's own resources. It is austerely
modernist, making little concession to either plot or character, more
like a fictive sculpture than a story, an obsessively repeated series
of patterns. Yes, Ballard has been accepted into the review columns,
become an elder statesman, but let's not forget how different his
background was from the standard Oxbridge man of letters. Ballard
rescued Britain from Eng Lit, from 'decent' humanist certainties and
Sunday supplement sleepiness. grail Marcus: Lipstick Traces I've
written before about the importance of this book to me. I read it when
I had just finished university, no plans, the future collapsing into a
grim attempt bound to fail to commensurate myself to the Thatcherite
economic reality principle. Marcus' vast web of connections opened up
an escape route. It was a description of a transhistorical Event, a
breakout embracing anabaptists, situationists, dadaists, surrealists,
punks. Such an Event was the exact opposite of the Grand Spectacles of
the eighties, the scripted and organized Non events which played out
on global television with Live Aid at their epicentre. It was
fugitive, secret, even when necessarily massively collective. Lipstick
Traces was sure that pop can only have any significance when it ceases
to be 'just music', when it reverberates with a politics that has
nothing to do with capitalist parliamentarianism and a philosophy that
has nothing to do with the academy. Lipstick Traces is itself best
read as part of a textual rhizome which attempted to register, a
decade or more on, the impact of punk. See also Vague magazine (if you
are looking for one of the most powerful triggers for Ccrustyle
cyberpunk theory, check out Mark Downham's pieces in Vague), Savage's
England's Dreaming. (This set not really complete until Rip It Up of
course.) 5) Tag five people. I can't think of one other blow that
hasn't done this, so I'm stuck. Mark S (no permalinks, but 12pm, 22
June, 2005 entry) responds to my Liddle piece. Here are a few thoughts
in reply. Popularity and the Good My claim wasn't that values can
never be popular the very purpose of communism is to produce a
correlation between the two. But the point is that there is no natural
fit between the popular and the Good. The popular cannon be appealed
to except as a fact, an 'is', and tells us nothing about what ought to
be the case. Empirical verification The important thought to hold onto
here is that ethical claims cannon be empirically verified, but that
this is so much the worse for empirical verification. In the British
empiricist tradition that runs from Hume to Ayer, the impossibility
verifying ethical statements entails the conclusion that they are
meaningless. Since you will not be able to find the 'wrongness' of any
act in the act itself, it is argued that 'wrongness' must belong only
to our emotional disposition in respect of the act. So making an
ethical judgement is not to issue a proposition but to make a noise
itself essentially nonsensical expressing approbation or
disapprobation, which is why Ayer's emotivism account of ethics is
often referred to as the 'boohurray' theory. (The congruence of
Liddle's opinions theory with this Brit empiricist party line is in
fact one of the points which legitimates the 'supergeneralised
philosophical extrapolation' from his remarks.) But Mark's answer to
my point about the unverifiability of ethics presupposes that the
issue is meaning; that, in other words, I share Ayer's view. Mark says
that the empirical verification of Anne Frank's claim that 'there is a
spark of goodness in everyone' is as follows: 'even if we disagree
with them, we understand what her words mean, and we agree in our
general understanding: there is a spark of goodness in anyone is
empirically true simply bc everyone understands what this sentence
means the fact of general communicability confirms the claim...' This,
in effect, was the Wittgensteinian answer to Ayer and emotivism. Yet
the issue is not, as it is for both Ayer and Wittgenstein, meaning.
Yes, contra Ayer, Anne Frank's statement has a meaning. But does this
mean that her claim has been verified? Only if you buy into a
Wittgensteinian metaphysic which collapses everything into discourse
(the many proponents of this ontology in the humanities who like to
pretend that this is a 'radical' position might pause and ask
themselves who of their colleagues don't accept this now?) The real
alternative to both Ayer's positivism and Wittgenstein's
linguosophistry is the idea that, yes, Frank's claim cannon be
verified, but that does not render it meaningless or what amounts to
the same thing a matter of empty linguistic protocol. No. Meaning is
not the issue. The Kantian and Spinozist move and this is what makes
them rationalists and not empiricists is to fully embrace the notion
that the ethical and the empirical have no relation to one another.
Ethics is based upon Reason, and Reason has nothing to do with what
happens to be the case for a particular species of 'dying animals'..
This is one way, amongst many others, in which the rationalist Spinoza
and Kant are set against the protopostmodernist Nietzsche. Far from
being scandalous and unthinkable, Nietzsche's claim that there is will
and nothing but is in fact now blandly consensual. Nietzsche's cosmos
of clashing wills is only Liddle's cosy world of compulsorysceptical
opinions rendered in a Wagnerian register. What is resisted in both
Nietzsche's embodied/ embedded perspectives and his elitism is
universalism. Nietzsche is constitutively elitist he thinks that
elitism is a necessary condition for 'greatness', that cultures
collapse into mediocrity if they are not governed by a principle of
inequality whereas Kant and Spinoza's 'elitism' is merely contingent.
They think that it just so happens to be the case that most human
beings will not be capable of acting according to Reason. But that is
a regrettable 'fact', with no consequences for Reason, which is
indifferent to contingent happenstance. The further point is that it
is only through the commitment to a Reason that is counterfactual that
it is possible to be a universalist. Universalism demands the bringing
of oneself into accordance with abstract principles, and this entails
a complete plugging from currentlyexisting communities and
identifications. Pragmatism and Faith The surprising conclusion that
this leads to is that faith, then, is not a question of
'hyperindividuated' will, but the name for the living out of a
commitment to a principle that cannon be empirically grounded. But
lack of empirical grounding does not mean that the faith is
irrational; quite the opposite. Faith puts you on the side of the
dogmatists, but why buy into the self-serving Sceptical and Critical
disdain for dogmatism? As for pragmatism, cizek is right. The great
benefit of forty is to expose the political worthlessness of much
socalled radical thought: 'today's official opponents,
deconstructionists versus Habermasians and so on, they really seem to
hate each other. But if you look closely  this was the nice
commonsense observation of forty  whenever you touch a concrete
political problem, basically the political distinction between
Habermas and Derrida, who, as you probably know, cannon stand each
other, disappears. Both occupy the same Leftofcenter place. Okay,
Derrida may be a little bit more messianic, but even Habermas now,
Habermas is even not immune against this "postsecular" threat. This is
the attitude that I really hate, which is why I prefer the Pope. You
know, this postsecular crap, it goes like this: Of course we no longer
have the ontological god, but it is an Otherness which is a mystery; a
gap is opened, something is present in the mode of absence. It's
always to come, it is never here, it's the mystery of otherness to be
respected. You know, that kind of stuff, which fits perfectly. And
they all share this. So the conclusion of forty is that philosophical
oppositions today do not matter, that they are irrelevant, that when
it comes to politics, we speak all the same language. I have a more
radical, pessimistic conclusion. They do matter, and this precisely
proves that, although they are officially opponents, share a whole set
of secret presuppositions, and this is what should we attack.' Batman
Begins is, without question, the best Batman film yet. The competition
isn't as fierce as it appears. Batman and Robin and Batman Forever are
famously appalling, but Burton's two films do not live up to their
vastly over-inflated reputations either. If you doubt that, just
remember derby Michael Keaton's chinrubbing Bruce Wayne... Jack
Nicholson as the Joker, a performance of stupendous self-indulgence
and sneering smugness even by his standards (his every gesture saying,
look, folks, I'm way too good for this shit) ... and artistically
wooden Kim Basinger as vicki Vale .... Danny Baker has rightly
observed that 'dark' is now the laziest and most cliched term of
approbation in contemporary cultural appreciation. Frank Miller is, as
noone can fail to know, the writer most often credited for turning
comics 'dark', and it is Miller's whiskysoured version of Batman, not
the Rauschenbergian Pop Art i960 model, that is now the cliche that
must be overcome. Miller's legacy has been ambivalent at best. Reflect
on the fact that his rise, like that of Alan Moore, coincides with the
total failure of comics to produce any new characters with mythic
resonance. Miller and Moore's 'maturity' corresponds with comics'
depressive and introspective adolescence, and for them, as for all
adolescents, the worst sin is exuberance. Hence their style is
deflationary, taciturn: consider all those portentous pages, stripped
of dialogue, in which barely anything happens, and contrast them with
the crazed effervescence of the typical Marvel page in the 60s.
Miller's pages have all the brooding silence of a moody fifteen-year
old boy. Don't be in any doubt, people: the silence signifies. M and M
traded on a lack of confidence that had begun to cloud the medium and
on a disingenuous male adolescent desire to both have comics and to
feel superior to them. But their demythologization, inevitably,
produced only a new mythology, one that poses as more sophisticated
than the one it has displaced but is in fact an utterly predictable
world of 'moral ambivalence' in which 'there are only shades of grey'.
Read all those puff pieces on Sin City and weep. If I have to read ONE
MORE Sin City review that starts like this: 'Thought comics were only
about square-jawed supertypes who wear their underwear outside their
tights? Think again...'No, no, no: thanks to Miller and his ilk, when
we think of comics now the associations that come to mind are raddled
alcoholics, corrupt cops and crack whores. It's about time that Miller
stopped being congratulated for bringing into comics a noirlite
cartoon nihilist bleakness that has long been a cliche in films and
books. The 'darkness' of this vision is in fact curiously reassuring
and comforting, and not only because of the sentimentality it can
never extiripate. (Miller's 'hardbitten' world reminds me not so much
of noir, but of the simulation of noir in Potter's Singing Detective,
the daydreamfantasies of a cheap hack, thick with misogyny and
misanthropy and cooked in intense selfloathing.) The idea that there
is no Good is one of the central assumptions of what we might call
Capitalist Realism. Capitalist Realism insists on the irredeemability
of human beings, the impossibility of Justice, the inevitability of
corruption ... It's hardly surprising that this model of realism came
to the fore in comics at the time when Reaganomics and Thatcherism
were presenting themselves as the only solutions to America and
Britain's ills. So it is gratifying that Batman Begins is not about
'shades of grey' at all, but rather shades of white. It is a film not
about amorality and Evil, but Good. In many ways, it is the film that
cizek wanted Revenge of the Sith to be: a film, that is to say, which
dares to hypothesize that Evil might result from an excess of Good.
Nolan has dispensed with Burton's psychotherapeutic Soap Oprahisms
(Joker falls in a vat of acid, so immediately wants to take over zeke
vooorld) in favour of a modern psychoanalysis that might have come out
of the pages of Zupancic's Ethics of the Real. There's just enough of
the American Psycho in Bale's troubled performance as Bruce Wayne to
give it a slightly disturbing quality. Wayne is haunted by an
superfluity of fathers (and a near absence of mothers: I don't think
that his mother says a word). First, there is Thomas Wayne, a
rosetinted, soft focus moral paragon, the very personification of
philanthropic Capital, the 'man who built Gotham' (but not without
building his own imbrie aristocratic pile outside the city limits
too). The structural delusion here (and it is a delusion shared by our
own glorious leaders) concerns the separating out of rampant crime
from Capital, as if there were no causal link between the former and
the latter. In keeping with the Batman myth established in the 30's
comics, Wayne Senior is killed in a random street robbery, surviving
only as a moral wraith tormenting the conscience of his orphaned son.
Second, there is R'as Al Ghul, Wayne's hyperstitional mentorguru. The
young Wayne is convinced that his father's death is his fault, but Al
good tries to convince him that his parents' death is his father's
responsibility, because Wayne Pere did not know how to Act.... Wayne
is not acting out a Hamletlike version of the Oedipus complex, so much
as he is tormented by the oscillation between two Oedipus complexes:
the first in which the mighty Father is a moral exemplar who must be
avenged but who cannon be equalled; the second in which the father is
a weak-willed failure, 'the old man at the crossroads'. He is aided in
this conflict by Michael Caine's Alfred, the 'maternal' father figure
who offers the young Bruce unconditional love. The struggle between
Fathers plays out as a conflict between Fear and Justice. Fear, as
wielded by the Millerinvented crime boss Falcone and the superbly
chilling Scarecrow with his get this 'weaponized hallucinogens' (the
scenes in which Scarecrow tries these little tricks out are creepily,
vertiginous psychotic), and Justice, which, as the young Wayne learns,
is something more than revenge. The question R'as Al gaul poses to
Wayne is: are you, with your conscience, your respect for life, too
weakwilled, too frightened to do what is Necessary? Can you Act? Wayne
is forced to decide: is Al gaul what he claims to be, the ice cold
instrument of impersonal Justice, or its grotesque parody? The
ultimate Evil in the film turns out to originate from Ghul's excessive
zeal, not from some hoary diabolism. Fear and Trembling, indeed. As
with Russell T Davies' Dr Who (Rose in the last episode: 'he showed
another way to live, a better way'), Batman Begins restores to the
hero an existentialist drama that finally puts to flight the niggling,
knowing sprites of polo that have sucked his blood for way too long.
Suddenly, Decision, not citation is central. Katie Holmes (who, it has
to be said, has a television rather than a cinema face) might not be
wholly convincing as the DA's assistantcumWayne love interest, but she
gets the film's best existentialist slogan: 'It's not who you are
inside that counts, it's what you DO that makes you what you are.' (A
sentiment that couldn't be less in step with US therapyhegemony.) From
the start, the Batman mythos has been about the switching of Gothic
Fear into heroic Justice. As Kim Newman establishes in an informative
piece in this month's Sight and Sound, Batman has always been a Gothic
hero. Batman is deeply rooted in the pyschogeography of an American
Gothic steeped in Expressionist Europe: Wayne Manor is a clear echo of
Poe's rambling aristocratic mansions, while Wayne's conviction that he
must 'become a creature of the night' is, as Newman says, a reference
to both Bela Lugosi's Dracula and to The Cabinet of Dr calgary ('you
must become Caligari!') Nolan's revisiting of Batman is not a
invention but a reclaiming of the myth, a grand synthesis that draws
upon the whole history of the character. It is serious without being
portentous, possessed by a lightness that doesn't come close to
flirting with postmodern knowingness (the few, very few, online quips
are notable for the way they do not fit with the overall tone at all).
Even Gary Oldman is no word of a lie understated. All this, and, at
the end of the film, the markham Asylum inmates are still on the
loose...  UPDATE: fascinating email from reader Elizabeth Kaspar added
as a comment below. Amongst other things, Elizabeth tries to defend
Batman Forever on grounds of its depiction of class war no less! It's
always good to have critical commonplaces questioned, even if you end
up reaffirming them. UPDATE 2: Wellargued piece here completely
refuting my view of the BB. Interesting question: 'is anyone ever
going to let [Batman] be a detective instead of a kinder James Bond?'
Stupid photos of stupid columnists: and in a series The modern Church
of England has been accused of many things dithering, incoherence,
irrelevance but I'll wager it is some time since it has been compared
to the ideologues of a totalitarian regime. Step forward Rod Liddle in
this bizarre piece in the Sunday Times today. I don't want to dwell on
Liddle's own wellknown dubious personal and professional morality (to
do so would to be to trade in the ad homines muckraking that too often
substitutes for ethical debate in this country) nor to engage point
for point with the slew of fallacies in his article today (enter into
the vortex of the Brit pontifitariat and you'll never emerge, which
surely is what the forces of reaction want, that the war be fought on
their territory and their terms). However, certain features of
Liddle's piece are worth singling out because we see the values of the
existing order laid bare in them. I have no wish to defend the
bewildered Rowan Williams; far from it. What is worthy of attention,
though, is Liddle's reason for attacking the archibishop. What
particularly irked Liddle was Williams' idea that the press should
promote the public good. 'The press is here, the archbishop said, to
nourish the public good. Not to inform or entertain  but to nourish
the public good. Now, where have I heard this before? It was an
argument eloquently advanced by Georgi Plekhanov, the pro-soviet
theorist, the first Russian Marxist and the man whom we have to thank
for, among other things, dreary socialist realism in art and, for
daily reading matter, Pravda.' Liddle would have us believe that a
notion that 'there is a commonly agreed public good that we are
beholden to preserve and advance' 'underpins the ideology of pretty
much every totalitarian state that sprang up during the with century'.
Let's leave aside that mainstay of liberal debate, the tiresome
equivocation of the Soviet state with Nazism, i.e. the positing of
totalitarian bogeyman waiting at the door and under the bed unless you
rigorously maintain a vigilant commitment to sophistry and scepticism
at all times. Look what will happen if you stop being like us. What is
particularly worthy of note is the idea both that any concept of the
public Good is totalitarian and that the real evil of totalitarian
regimes lay in their positing of a general Good. Once again, we must
resist the temptation to personalise this (i.e. Rod wants to reject
any concept of the general Good because he wants the right to betray
and humiliate women in the privacy of his own home) and consider the
ideology that speaks through Liddle. Note that the idea that there is
a Good which is not generally agreed upon is unthinkable in this
ideological configuration. What is monstrous about the Soviet state
and the Church of England is that they 'assume' that 'we all share a
common belief in what constitutes public good'. Surely neither the
Soviets nor the Church made any such assumption. For both, the Good is
precisely not coincident with populist feeling; 'democratic consensus'
cannon make fundamental ethical principles invalid. The Terrors that
Liddle so dominates only make sense if there is a perceived
discrepancy between popular values and the Good, and it is assumed
that human souls can be engineered so that they will come to recognize
(and ultimately produce) this Good. This discrepancy is not a feature
of totalitarian thinking alone; on the contrary, it is the cornerstone
of any worthwhile ethical theory. Enlightenment thinkers such as
Spinoza and Kant made no concessions to the pathologies of the rabble.
They fully embraced the idea that there is an absolute difference
between 'is' and 'ought', that the Good is to be opposed, and opposed
fundamentally, to worldliness. Liddle, however, is situated squarely
in the British empiricist tradition. Goodness is not abstract or
conceptual, but something we derive from experience, so that 'we trust
and believe in each other because we learn to trust through
experience, not on a whim or through an article of faith.' This is as
far as can be imagined from Anne Frank's idea that there is a spark of
goodness in anyone. Frank's conception of Good was not an empirical
hypothesis capable of refutation but a statement of faith that was
literally counterfactual, against the factual, the experiental. The
ideology that speaks through Liddle has total disdain for faith
because having faith means having a commitment, a fundamental project.
Whereas Liddle, like Aaronovitch and most every other columnist in the
British hack pack, demands the right to 'debate'. This is the vacuous
nonfaith to which Liddle and his ilk pledge allegiance; 'arguably,' he
says, 'the most valuable thing we in the liberal West possess is a
fervent disagreement about what is good for us as a society.' But
there is an inevitable paradox about this that Nietzsche was perhaps
the quickest to identify and analyse. How can you make a fundamental
commitment of your lack of fundamental commitment? What is left in
this situation is the blandly terrifying blankness of the Last Man,
the armchair critic at the end of history, engorged on a surfeit of
awareness of the past and of cultural difference, unable to commit and
to believe even if he wanted to. That is why a skilled reactionary
reader of Nietzsche like forty is forced to make reflexive 'irony' a
positive and indeed essential feature of his postpolitical,
postethical liberalism. Fukuyama was a thinker broadly in tune with
Rorty's liberalism, but his positing of the 'Last Man' as the
inevitable cultural expression of the capitalist end of history is in
fact almost a Marxist sublimation of the supposedly ethical basis for
Rorty's arguments (we must be liberals, otherwise we would be cruel).
Liberal irony is a requirement of capitalism, a side-effect of the
economy. And of course there can be no real 'fervent disagreement'
about the Good if it is already decided that any absolutist conception
of the Good is totalitarian, if that is to say there is a concealed
commitment to a metaethical position that values the sheer fact of
having an opinion over anything else. The Goth reappraisal continues
here, with comments from IT here. And (via IT): 175 different types of
Goth. Also, for those few who ain't seen em: typically fascinating
follow-ups and tangents from the Blissblogga on Goth here and on
capitalism and polarity here and here. A report of the Maffia/ATP
night at Whore Cull: speaking of which, there is a cinematic club
night next week. Lots of boys doing stuff (but no Infinite Thought :(
). For full details, have a look a the cinematic homepage. Fantastic
piece by Danny Baker on his 1981 meeting with Michael Jackson in The
Times. Finally, here's what I did on Monday night. The moral of that
story: when robot recommends an event, go! Stupid photos of stupid
columnists: st in a series Lenin rightly draws attention to the chorus
of stupidity issuing from smugonaut central in response to Charlotte
Street's welljustified (and wellargued) analysis of the inane drooling
of smugonautinchief, David Aaronovitch. The passage from Kristeva
which Lenin cites suggests that anti-intellectualism is not unique to
Britain, but the level of anti-intellectualism in Britain is surely
higher than almost anywhere else. It scarcely seems credible, for
instance, that a petit bourgeois dunce like Aaronovitch would get a
regular column on a broadsheet newspaper in any other European
country. Readers outside the UK might like to take a read through
these 'comments' to get a sense of the intellectual climate here. I
thought Badiou's description on Friday of the attacks on Derrida after
his death as 'Texan' was a little cheap, partly because it is surely
Britain which is the world capital of proud antiintellectualism.
Contra Chirac, here's nothing inherently 'AngloSaxon' about
neoliberalism (just as there is nothing inherently 'European' about
Statist protectionism); if there is an anglo-saxon sensibility,
though, it is manifest in the disdain for theory, an empiricist
distrust of any discourse not conducted in the language of 'plain
speaking commonsense'. What marks this out as definitively petit
bourgeois is not the ignorance itself, but the will to ignorance. Of
course, Mark's piece is perfectly clear; almost certainly the
sneerocrats are well aware of the meaning of a 'Barthesian mytheme'.
The point, though, is they have to pretend that they don't. The
comment, 'By 'eck we never 'ad those in Bolton when I were a lass' is
especially revealing. The parodied but identifiedwith voice is that of
a working class Other, the Other who does not know. It is is this
defiantly ignorant Other who is the figure to whom anti-intellectual
derision must appeal. Needless to say, this Other is the product of
anti-intellectual discourse, the fantasy figure around which it is
structured. The ruling class project in pop cultural terms, you can
see it at work in Mclaren's treatment of John Lydon in the 70s, and in
Endemol's manipulated image of the working class as drunk idiots on
Big Brother now has always been to flatten out the working class into
thoughtless, bovine zombies, whose uneducated 'authenticity' and
'honesty' are to be both feared and revered. There is no doubt that
blaris has continued and exacerbated the Thatcherite trend towards
destruction of working class intelligence, although in truth the
maddening decline in the number of working class libraries and
institutions of self-education preceded both Blair and Thatcher. Yes,
anti-intellectualism is to be found in those members of the working
class complicit in their own oppression, but the only class interests
it serves are those of the bourgeoisie. 'Do people really talk like
that, even in Islington?' Well, I couldn't speak for people in
Islington surely blaikie apologists for the existing order could tell
us more about that? but yes, yes, there are those of who really,
really talk like that. And, you know what, we regard it as an
achievement, too. But then again, we weren't given an expensive
private education, I suppose. (By the way, I should have thought that
even anti-intellectual would be able to punctuate properly. 'its
getting ridiculous now?'. That would be 'it's'.)  UPDATE: This looks
like it is going to be the perfect antidote for proBombing
smugonautics. I (belatedly) went to see the traumatically powerful
Downfall a couple of nights ago at the behest of Karl Kraft. overtype
of mediocre tat renders one suspicious of any praise surrounding
contemporary films, but this is a genuine masterpiece, and one that
can only be appreciated fully in the cinema environment, where the
relentless pummelling of the Soviet artillery and the claustrophobic
aimlessness of the Hitler bunker have a crushingly visceral presence.
Downfall, actually, is the second film this year (the first was The
Aviator) to flout my otherwise reliable dictum that movies based on
real life are to be avoided. But the reason why both work is that they
describe situations in which reality had itself gone psychotic. As
Ballard has observed, the Nazi delirium was one of those moments when
the distinction between the internal and the external world no longer
held: hell has erupted on earth, there is no escape, no future, and
you know it... Downfall is fascinating because it closely and I'm
assuming meticulously documents the 'line of abolition' that
DeleuzeGuattari claim is constitutive of Nazism. For DeleuzeGuattari,
who borrow the idea from Virilio, the Nazis' scheduled
autoannihilation 'if are defeated, better that the nation should
perish' was less a forced contingency than the realization, the very
consummation, of the Nazi project. DeleuzeGuattari's account might be
dubious empirically (it was certainly hotly contested in intense
discussions last night at Towers of Infinite Thought), but the great
service it provides for cultural analysis may not be the idea that
Nazism is suicidal, but the thought that the suicidal, the self-
destructive is Nazi. Since at least the death of Chatterton, popular
culture has found the temptation to glamorise self-destruction
irresistible. The Nazis provide the definitive Twentieth Century
version of this age-old Romance of Death. As Ballard noted in his
essay on Hitler, 'Alphabets of Reason', the Nazis are a creeping
modern phenomenon, their technicolour glamour a world away from the
fussy frockcoated figures of the Edwardian British ruling elite. The
Nazis' facility with broadcasting laid the groundwork for the media
landscape we now occupy. Hitler as the first rock star? Downfall takes
us through the scenes in which the Nazi party disintegrates only for
the Third Reich 'n' Roll to begin. The death of the frontman is the
bloodsacrifical rite that will guarantee a hideous immortality. Hitler
was the first Twentieth Century figure to pass from historical
individuality to becoming a permanent archetypeartifact in the the
McLuhanBallard media unconscious. After him, Kennedy, Malcolm X, King,
Morrison, Hendrix, Curtis seem local, particular, whereas Hitler comes
to stand for a general principle, for modern Evil itself. As
spectators of Downfall, we spend most of the time in the Fuhrer
Bunker, forced into an unsettling sympathy if not for the Reich's
leaders than for those who were loyal to them, the secretaries and
functionaries who admired, by no means fanatically, Hitler and
National Socialism. Meanwhile, the glimpses we have of the Berlin
above show a landscape out of The Triumph of Death, a city devolving
into total anomie: child conscripts, vigilante hangings, intoxicated
reveling, carnivalesque sexual excess. While those scenes play out,
you can almost hear Johnny Rotten leering, 'when there's no future how
can there be sin?' (Although for Germany, in fact, there was nothing
but the future: immediate postwar Germany was subject to a willed
amnesia, a disavowal of cultural memory). It's no accident that post-
punk in many ways begins here. As the Pistols pursue their own line of
abolition into the scorched earth nihilism of 'Belsen was a Gas' and
'Holidays in the Sun', they keep returning to the barbed-wire scarred
Boschscape of Nazi Berlin and the Pynchon Zone it became after the
war. Siouxsie famously sported a swastika for a while, and although
much of the flaunting of the Nazi imagery was supposedly for
superficial shock effects, the punkNazi connection was about much more
than trite transgressivism. Punk's very 1970s, very British fixation
on Nazism posed ethical questions so troubling they could barely be
articulated explicitly: what were the limits of liberal tolerance?
Could Britain be so sure that it had differentiated itself from Nazism
(a particularly pressing issue at a time that the NF was gathering an
unprecedented degree of support)? And, most unsettling of all, what is
it that separates Nazi Evil from heroic Good? Downfall poses that last
question with a real force, and it is a question that has a special
resonance at the moment given cizek and Zupancic's theory of the
ungrounded Act as the very definition of the ethical. As I watched the
most 'monstrous' act depicted in the film, Frau Goebbels' drugging and
then poisoning her children better this 'redemption', she reasoned,
than that they be left in a world without National Socialism I was
struck by the parallel with seth in Toni Morrison's Beloved, who kills
one of her children rather than let it fall into the hands of the
slavers. What is to separate Frau Goebbels' act of abominable Evil
from Sethe's act of heroic Good? (Those who have read The Fragile
Absolute will remember that cizek uses seth precisely as an example of
a Good entirely alien to liberal morality, with its ethic of
enlightened selfinterest). Downfall seems to invite us to sympathise
with the 'liberal Nazis', the 'reasonable' doctor, for instance, who
wants to keep the medical services running and is disgusted and aghast
at the 'senseless, suicidal' behaviour that results from seeing Duty
through to the end; the General who wants to end the war to protect
the lives of civilians. But these 'pragmatic humanitarian' figures are
the least defensible because they are not prepared to follow the
principles of their actions to the end (if they were committed to
Nazism, why not die for it? If they weren't , why not resist it?)
Strangely, it is almost as if the film seems to suggest that what was
irredeemably malevolent about the Nazis was their will to die for the
cause. In spite of ourselves, we find ourselves thinking that the Evil
Nazis those who totally identify with the Nazi project and who destroy
themselves when it is clear that has failed attain a certain tragic
heroism by refusing to give up on their fundamental commitment. All of
which leads us back to the old question: does the Kantian emphasis on
unconditional duty legitimate Nazi Evil? Zupancic, who has done so
much to rediscover Kantian ethics from the perspective of Lacanian
theory, addressed this question in her interview with Cabinet
magazine. 'Recall that, in Hannah Arendt's famous example, Nazi
functionaries like Eichmann took themselves to be kantian in this
respect: They claimed to act simply on principle without any
consideration for the empirical consequences of their actions. In what
way is this a perversion of Kant? This attitude is "perverse" in the
strictest clinical meaning of the word: The subject has here assumed
the role of a mere instrument of the Will of the Other. In relation to
Kant, I would simply stress the following point, which has already
been made by slave Zizek: In Kantian ethics, we are responsible for
what we refer to as our duty. The moral law is not something that
could clear us of all responsibility for our actions; on the contrary,
it makes us responsible not only for our actions, but alsoand
foremostfor the principles that we act upon.' Is this enough, though
to distinguish Goebbels from Sethe? Was it really the case that Frau
Goebbels was making herself into 'a mere instrument of the Will of the
Other'? Or had she freely chosen to assume responsibility for her
actions and for the principles on which she acted? Remember that
Kantian freedom consists in choosing to obey the moral law. To be
motivated by anything other than 'duty' is to be driven by
'pathological' passions, and hence not to be free at all. There is no
obvious pathological motivation for Frau Goebbels' actions. She stood
to gain nothing from this act of 'destroying what is best in her' (and
indeed, shortly after she killed her children, she consented to be
shot by her husband). The only answer you are left with is that the
Nazi Cause is itself a pathology. By definition, the Nazi Act cannon
be universal, since it is based upon preserving if only, at the end,
at the level of myth the particular pathological characteristics of 'a
chosen people' and, more abstractly therefore, of defending the very
principle of 'ethnic pathology'. Sethe's abominable act in Beloved is
an act of plugging from a social situation fatally, totally corrupted
by a lethally imbecile racial delirium; Frau Goebbels' multiple
infanticide, by contrast, is an attempt to hardware herself and her
children into an ethnocidal madness that can only live through their
deaths and the deaths of millions of others. Realism has nothing to do
with the Real. On the contrary, the Real is what realism has
continually to suppress. Capitalist realism, like Socialist realism,
is about 'putting a human face' on and naturalising a set of political
determinations. The commissars of kapital like to pose as tough-minded
pragmatists who tell unpalatable truths and who alone are capable of
facing up to the harsh 'realities' of the world. Yet capitalism no
less in its its soontotake over Chinese State version than in its
soontocollapse American model is based upon a slew of fantasies so
credulous that they are almost charming. In a powerful piece in the
Independent today, Johann Hari parallels the militant complacency of
the current ruling elite with the thinking of previous highly
developed social groups, such as the Incas and the Mayans, which had
'committed ecocide'. 'What were Easter Islanders saying as they cut
down the last tree on their island?,' Hari quotes geographer Jared
Diamond asking in his book Collapse How Societies Choose to Fail or
Survive. It is grim to reflect that the answers 'jobs not trees!' or
'technology will solve our problems; never fear, we'll find a
substitute for wood' are precisely the rationalizations that a
thanatropic drive would produce in order to do its work. In the
unconscious, Freud says, noone really believes they will die, and this
is no doubt also true of civilizations, which despite the melancholy
monuments testifying to the demise of Maya and Easter Island, are
convinced that they are the exceptions, they are the one which cannon
perish. It is easy to see what capitalist 'realism' means when you
consider Blair's habitual response to appeals from the environmental
lobby. Measures to rein in ecocatastrophe may well be desirable even
necessary but they, Blair tells us with a heavy heart bursting his
sleeve, are 'politically impossible'. Here, then, is capitalist
'realism': the reduction to the realm of the 'impossible' of any steps
that will prevent the destitution of the human environment. For that
is what 'realism' amounts to: not a representation of the real, but a
determination of what is politically possible. But what is politically
possible is at odds with what is physically possible, so in a sense,
it is the servomechanismagents of Kapital, not their opponents, who
'demand the impossible' now. Their fantasy of a sustainable capitalism
carrying on, forever, without burning out the planet, is perfectly
delirial. Another insight into capitalist realism was provided last
week by Marxist economist Christian arazi (Scuola Universitaria
professional della Svizzera Italiana, Lugano, Switzerland) whose
lecture 'Finance, Attention and Affect' at Goldsmiths was an
interrogation of the meaning and psychological, social and neurotic
impact of postFordism. Christian dated the moment of the switch from
Fordism to post-fordism very precisely: October 6, 1979. It was on
that date that the Federal Reserve increased interest rates by 20
points, preparing the way for the 'supplyside economics' that would
constitute the 'economic reality' with which, we are now so familiar.
The rise in interest rates not only contained inflation, it made
possible a new organisation of the means of production and
distribution. The economy would no longer be organised by reference to
production, but from the side of the point of sale. The 'rigidity' of
the Fordist production line gave way to a new 'flexibility', a word
that will send chills of recognition down the spine of every worker
today. This flexibility was defined by a deregulation of capital and
labour, with the workforce being visualized (with an increasing number
of workers employed on a temporary basis), and outsourced. The new
conditions both required and emerged from an increased cybernetization
of the working environment. The Fordist factory was crudely divided
into blue and white collar work, with the different types of labour
physically delimited by the structure of the building itself.
Labouring in noisy environments, watched over by managers and
supervisors, workers had access to language only in their breaks, in
the toilet, at the end of the working day, or when they were engaged
in sabotage, because communication interrupted production. But in
postFordism, when the assembly line becomes a 'flux of information',
people work by communicating. As Wiener taught, communication and
control entail one another. What Deleuze, after Burroughs and
Foucault, called 'the society of control' comes into its own in these
conditions. Work and life become inseparable. As Christian observed,
this is in part because labour is now to some degree linguistic, and
it is impossible to leave language in the locker after work. Capital
follows you when you dream. Time ceases to be linear, becomes chaotic,
punctiform. As production and distribution are restructured, so are
nervous systems. To function effectively as a component of 'just in
time production' you must develop a capacity to respond to unforeseen
events, you must learn to live in conditions of total instability, or
'precarity', as the ugly neologism has it. Periods of work alternate
with periods of unemployment. Typically, you find yourself employed in
a series of short-term jobs, unable to plan for the future. The
horrors of these new working patterns are clear, but it is imperative
that the Left renounces one of its most dangerous addictions, its
nostalgia for Fordism. As Christian pointed out, the disintegration of
stable working patterns was in part driven by the desires of workers
it was they who, quite rightly, did not wish to work in the same
factory for forty years. In many ways, the Left has never recovered
from being wrong-footed by Kapital's mobilization and metabolization
of the desire for emancipation from Fordist routine. Especially in the
UK, the traditional representatives of the working class Union and
labour leaders found Fordism rather too congenial; its stability of
antagonism gave them a guaranteed role. But this meant that it was
easy for the advocates of post-fordist Kapital to present themselves
as the opponents of the status quo, bravely resisting an inertial
organized labour 'pointlessly' invested in fruitless ideological
antagonism which served the ends of union leaders and politicians, but
did little to advance the hopes of the class they purported
represented. And so the stage was set for the neo-liberal 'end of
history', the 'postideological' ideological justification for rampant
supply-side economics. Antagonism is not now located externally, in
the far off between class blocs, but internally, in the psychology of
the worker, who, qua worker, is interested in old-style class
conflict, but, as someone with a pension fund, is also interested in
maximizing their investment. There is no longer an identifiable
external enemy. The consequence is that, as Christian put it in a
memorable image, post-fordist workers, are like the Old Testament Jews
after they left the 'house of slavery': liberated from a bondage to
which they have no wish to return but also abandoned, stranded in the
desert, confused about the way forward. The psychological conflict
raging within individuals they themselves are war cannon but have
casualties. One hidden, or at least naturalized, consequence of the
rise of post-fordism is that the 'invisible plague' of psychiatric
disorders that has spread, silently and stealthily, since around 1750
(i.e. the very onset of industrial capitalism) has reached a new level
of acuteness in the last two decades. This is one more dimension of
the Real that capitalist realism is constitutively unable to process.
It is typical of New Labour that it should have committed itself, so
early in its third term, to removing people from Incapacity Benefit,
as if most people claiming the benefit were malingerers. In contrast
with this assumption, it doesn't seem unreasonable to infer that most
of the people claiming incapacity benefit and there are well in excess
of two million of them are casualties of Kapital. A significant
proportion of claimants, for instance, are people psychologically
trashed as a consequence of the capitalist realist insistence that
mining was no longer economically viable (though, even considered in
brute economic terms, once you factor in the cost to taxpayers of such
benefits, the arguments about 'viability' seem rather less than
convincing). Many have simply buckled under the terrifyingly unstable
conditions of postFordism. The current ruling ontology rules out any
possibility of a social causation of mental illness. The
chemicobiologization of mental illness is of course strictly
commensurate with its depoliticization. Considering mental illness an
individual chemicobiological problem has enormous benefits for
capitalism: first, it reinforces capital's drive towards atomistic
individualization (you are sick because of your brain chemistry) and
second, it provides an enormously lucrative market in which
multinational 'pyschomafias' can peddle their dodgy drugs (we can cure
you with our SSRIs). It goes without saying that all mental illnesses
are neurologically instantiated, but this says nothing about their
causation. If it is true, for instance, that depression is constituted
by low serotonin levels, what still needs to be explained is why
particular individuals have low levels of serotonin. The increase in
bipolar disorder is a particularly significant development. In the
discussion after Christian's lecture, I asked him about the
relationship between this form of mental illness and capitalism as a
system. It is clear that capitalism, with its ceaseless boom and bust
cycles, is itself, fundamentally and irreducibly, bipolar. Capitalism
is characterized by a lurching between hyped-up mania (the irrational
exuberance of 'bubble thinking') and depressive comedown. (The term
'economic depression' is no accident). To a degree unprecedented in
any other social system (and capitalism is very precisely NOT a social
'structure' in the way that the despotic state or the primitive social
are), capitalism both feeds on and reproduces the moods of
populations. Without delirium and confidence, capital could not
function. As it happened, Christian confirmed that he had in fact been
working with people who had been 'psychologically smashed' by
capitalism, many of whom, it turned out, had in fact developed bipolar
disorder. It could hardly be denied that there is an isomorphic
relationship between the social and individual disorders of
capitalism. How could madness not result when we are invited to
consider America's consuming of $600 billion a year more than it
produces 'realistic'? (As opposed, so we are told, to Europe's
'unrealistic' social welfare programmes.) Make no mistake, the
realists are insane, which more than ever reveals the force of the
slogan, 'the Real is the impossible, but the impossible which
happens'. Ecological catastrophe and mental illness are present in
capitalism's wraparound simulation as warps, unassimilable
discontinuities, that which cannon be but which, nevertheless, cannon
be extirpated. Perhaps these negative Reals these dark shadows which
allow us to see kapital's triplet mall of the mind for what it
actually is have their complement in a positive Real, an event
completely inconceivable in the current situation, but which will
break in and redefine everything. Reader Bas manhood unites two
current themes comics and Soviet goth by drawing my attention to the
great comic artist's eni Bilal's Partie de Chasse, which, according to
Bas, has 'both has a soviet and a gothic feel'. Some pages from the
original comic are reproduced here, and it seems that an English
version is now available. Speaking of the Soviet comics connection
(and of superhero I fancied/ identified with), we must mention Black
Widow, a former Soviet spy, who, sadly, defected and became an agent
of SHIELD. (It seems that there is to be a Black Widow film.) Other
superhero well worth a mention are the animateinanimate couple Scarlet
Witch and The Vision: a witch married to a 'synthetic human'.
Meanwhile, Northanger cites the following moronic (quoted from this
site): "I have never liked black superhero and I don't really think
that they are believable. I didn't mind the Kingpin being black in the
DAREDEVIL movie because he's a villain. I don't want to relate to or
care about the villains, only the heroes. I know that this may sound
like a racist statement but look at the society that we live in. If
you look at the majority of crimes and lawlessness in this country
most of it is caused by AfricanAmericans. The kind of movies,
television and music they enforce [sic] is full of violence, drug use,
abusing women, attacking [sic] law enforcement officers, rape and
murder. That's really all that needs to be said." Northanger goes on
to observe that 'black people, when i was growing up, were not
superheros' and 'when i was growing up the people that looked like me
were washing dishes.' The Museum of Black superhero lists a number of
black heroes, but few are iconic, most are forgotten. In addition to
the previously mentioned Black Panther the breakthrough black
superhero, although the break was not followed by a proliferation of
black heroes, to say the least, and it took 11 years for the Panther
himself to get a shortlived run of his own book perhaps only Luke Cage
attained any degree of recognizability. I first remember seeing the
jivetalking 'hero for hire' Cage battling Spiderman, and he had his
own title, and a 'presence' throughout the Marvel universe; it seems
that he, too, is to be the subject of film. The shortage of black
heroes is in direct disproportion to the impact that Marvel in
particular has had upon black music. From Wu Tang through to Doctor
Octagon and Underground Resistance, black music has been saturated
with references to the superheroic. I'm leaving out Falcon, who, as a
sidekick of Captain America, was worse than neglible. Which brings me
to the answer to the question posed in the expanded version of the
meme, namely 'Which superhero did you hate?' Captain America provoked
detestation in me from a young age; not so much for his stars 'n'
stripes patriotism as his square jawed patriarchal moralism (something
for which I also loathed Reed Richards). Although when Jack Kirby drew
the nots good Captain, he did look fantastic, of course. My answers to
the superhero meme, sent this way by the great Lenin. (With scans from
comics in my very own collection!) If you could have one superpower,
what would it be and why? (Assume you also get baseline superhero
enhancements like moderately increased strength, endurance and
agility.) Retractable claws, like Molly Millions from necromancer
(another cybergothic heroine as it goes) and Wolverine. Which, if any,
'existing' superhero(es) do you fancy, and why? Storm. She's a black
goth with power over the elements ... 'Nuff said. OK, here's the tough
one. What would your superhero name be? (No prefab forename formulas
here, you have to make up the name you think you'd be proud to mask
under.) Death Drive. For extra credit: Is there an 'existing'
superhero with whom you identify/whom you would like to be? The Black
Panther Pass it on. Three people please, and why they're the wind
beneath your wings. 'Wind beneath my wings', yeuch.... but....Infinite
Thought, because I want to see if her superhero can combine Soviet
Goth with pixiedom; Baal, because whatever he writes is charged with
poetic illumination, and it's long past time for him to write
something new; top shoe fetishist Glueboot, because I want to see the
costume design. 'You might as well try and enjoy it, because it'll
probably be ten years before we play again,' Mark Stewart notes dryly
towards the end of the Maffia's set tonight. It must be seventeen
years since I last saw the mafia actually, but the first time was the
best. 1987, the Astoria Charing Cross Road; we arrived on the train
from the provinces intrigued but scarcely able to imagine how
something like As the Veneer of Democracy Starts to Fade could be
rendered live. In the event, the Maffia's toxic metal pfunk, shredded
and panned by Adrian Sherwood's mix and lightningconducted through the
gangly figure of the ranting and raging Stewart a personification of
all the excessive, 'embarrassing' politicallibidinal demands
Thatcherism had already, over a long, long eight years, watertortured
out of us was the stuff of the most visceral of conversions. I came
out delirious, hooked, forever a fan. But even then, with C86 in the
ascendant, Stewart seemed to belong to an older, superseded age, one
in which independent pop could articulate both formally and
conceptually another way, an outside, a discontent with the reality
principle itself. That disjunction between Stewart and his surrounding
milieu is felt even more keenly than ever tonight. The mafia will play
'Liberty City' , the song that will for me always be the best account
of what it was to feel, gradually, the bitter bite of 'methodological
individualism' in the eighties, the sense of being atomised in the
lonely crowd, abandoned in the virtual nuclear winter of the
collapsing social wherein all possibilities of collectivity withered
one by one, and the pitiful remains of an abandoned public space
became subject to casual vandalism and predation. Reality shrank down
to a banal survivalism, ('struggling to pay the rent the main worry's
job security') counted out in the normalising pressures you become
subject to when the best you can hope for is the right to maintain
your own beautifully appointed prison cell. It's about the
impossibility of connection, reaching out to friends who are either
embittered or broken. You feel ill? It's not just you..... Today, the
scenario 'Liberty City' spray-painted is taken for granted, not even
an issue. What could it even mean to expect anything else? Tonight
that's an insuperable problem because the mafia inferno can only
ignite if the pain, the anger, the disappointment, the anxiety Stewart
channels are there in the crowd to be fanned and fuelled. If that is
to say, there is some possibility of a circuit of affect, or better,
disaffected between crowd and band. In those conditions, the mafia
alchemy could transform tribulation into exultant egodissolution, punk
and metal nihilism into a funk celebration. But that could not happen
tonight. The crowd lacks any cohesion, what you might expect when four
or five rather disparate acts are pushed into the same bill. 'Here we
are now, entertain us'. But the mafia aren't for idle passers by. A
stream of latecomer lagerlads shove past (are these fuck hired by
someone to ensure all shows in London are mean, miserable territorial
wars?) , barely interested but convinced that they have the absolute
right to the best view of the Spectacle, no matter how many folk they
have to trample over to get it. My Latin temper snaps, and I'm
censured by a security guard. This is like being in a bus queue. One
of the showers spits in I.T.'s hair. The mafia probably play as well
as they ever have. 'Forbidden Colours' is done as a fragile ballad
blasted by artillery shells of Leblanc percussion and radioactive
washes of reverb. But for the most part on the rallying cry for the
dispossessed that is 'Resistance of the Cell', on the brutalistfunk
sexual programming of 'Hypnotized', on the straining against the
limits of the acceptable of 'Hysteria' they are a vicious, viscous,
adrenallywired riffmachine (imagine the Stooges passing from 'being
funky' into actually playing funk) powered by the heaviest of vintage
Tommy Boy beats. Stewart's vocal, reversed and distorted into a Munch
scream, a strangled Dalek screech, is still the Artaud howl he started
to use nigh on three decades ago on the earliest Pop Group recordings.
But tonight it doesn't connect like it should. I can't get to Now. Two
people in front of me are incessantly chatting (what is it that makes
people pay 18 quid for a ticket only for them to jabber constantly?)
There are pockets of rapt dancing, but far too much dissolute milling
about. No crowd dynamics. Stewart looks disconsolate, isolated. I
sympathise. Tonight, London 2005 seems sullen, indifferent. Later, an
hour or so after the set has finished, we spy Stewart standing just
behind us. I want to say something, but before I can, he's gone. I
doubt I'll ever see him play live again. Speaking of coldness and
couture: check out the new webley by Owen Hatherley of Dissensus. Owen
reproduces parts of his essay on 'bachelor/ machines: futurism,
austerity and sexuality' as well as two pieces that previously
appeared in the zine 'Totally Bored': an interview with Jeremy Junior
Boys and a little drifter on London. Read 'em, and if we're lucky,
he'll write more. The refashion culture wars of the early part of the
c the aesthetictheoretical struggles between futurism, vorticism,
cubism and constructivism have never ceased to be relevant.
Unfortunately, fascism seems to have won, laying claim to both
sexiness and futurism. I am going to discuss constructivism and its
relationship to glam and communism in a later post, but, for the
moment, I.T. and I are doing our bit to destroy fascist chic by trying
to start a trend in Soviet Goth. Ridiculed, forgotten, yet
subterranean robust, Goth is the last remnants of glam in popular
culture. Goth is also the youth cult most associated with women and
with fiction. This is hardly surprising. As I have pointed out before
and is well known, the novel has its origins in 'gothic romances'
which were predominantly consumed and produced by women, and the
complicity of women with the Gothic has been a commonplace of literary
criticism at least since Ellen moors wrote her classic essay, 'Female
Gothic', in 1977. Why think about Goth now? Partly it is because
Goth's preposterous trasharistocratic excess couldn't be more at odds
with contemporary culture's hip hopdominated sportswear
brutilitarianism. At thes same time, though, Goth's shadow seems
unusually visible in pop culture at the moment, what with references
to it in both Coronation Street ('you're not even a proper Goth!') and
Big Brother ('what is a Gothic? Can you make me into one?') Partly it
is because Rip It Up has revived fascination in all things postpunk,
and Goth is the last surviving post-punk cult. These two facts have
resulted in I.T. and me seceding from the oppressive masculinist cool
of the club into the more congenial cold of Goth haunts. Goth has its
own version of more or less every other youth culture (hence there's
techno Goth, Industrial Goth, Hippie Goth...) But let's leave aside
the male objects (The Cramps, The Birthday Party), the po-faced (the
overwrought white dub of Bauhaus) and the polo (The Sisters of Mercy,
who from the start traded in a self-conscious metaGoth), and start
with Siouxsie.I couldn't disagree more with this. Abi Titmuss as
ordinary, likeable woman, offering a fascinating insight into the
nature of contemporary celebrity? Do me a favour. The sickening,
simpering Titmuss is worth singling out for special derision because
of the propaganda role she plays as a symbol of how, to get ahead in
capitalism, it is necessary to set aside all compunctions. She
operates in consumer capitalism much as the legendary sakharov
functioned in the Stalinist Soviet Union. sakharov was a Ukrainian
miner who reputedly dug 102 tons of coal in the course of a six hour
shift in 1935. (Needless to say, it turned out that sakharov had a
whole team of miners working under him). Titmuss' heroic efforts on
behalf of the UK ether economy 2005 consist in the example she offers
of unremitting selfexploitation . She stands for a shrinking of the
possibilities of popular culture down to almost nothing sending out
the message: what more can you expect? and for a total disclaiming of
responsibility wouldn't you do as I have done, given the chance?
Everything she does is implicitly justified as an inevitable effect of
global capitalism, not much to do with her at all. As A A Gill
memorably put it in the Sunday Times last week, Titmuss speaks 'of her
career as the pubescent boy's righthand companion and of her breasts'
inability to remain covered, as if they were a medical condition she
had to live with, with as much good humour, and stoicism as she could
muster. The outbreaks of exhibitionist sexuality were like eczema
attacks: disgusting, unsightly but not her fault.' This is the way in
which we are bullied into seeing our behaviour whenever we go along
with the latest moronic initiative at work. It isn't anything to do
with us, the structure is already in place, we might as well get as
much out of it as we can.... If Abi can degrade and demean herself,
why can't we?  UPDATE: Mark Sinker mails 'one of the intriguing things
about abi titmuss in that doc i watched bc i had never heard of her
till that evening! was that, when the flyonthewall caught her face
obliquely or in repose, when she wasn't "on", you got the impression
that what was driving her was tremendous rage, panic and self-loathing
i don't think she sees it as compromise, so much as furious self-
mutilation kind of munchausen's syndrome by proxy, except the victim
is the "angelic image of the nurse" (haha ok maybe that won't fly)'
lol, though maybe the reason Mark can continue to be so positive about
pop culture is that he screens a great deal of it out? Hadn't heard of
Abi Titmuss till that evening that's some achievement... By contrast
with his esoteric presentation at Birkbeck a week ago, Zizek's lecture
at Middlesex last night aimed 'at comrades' was a much more focused
affair. This time, cizek stuck to his brief why are so many lacanian
liberals? to the letter, with no diversions, half-finished arguments,
or crowdpleasing humour. cizek began by repeating the attack on jean-
claude Milner that can be found here. As he reconstructed Milner's
position Israel is now the structural obstacle to European Unity,
filling the position that 'the Jew' used to occupy, I thought: if
Milner is right why is Israel in the Eurovision song contest then?
cizek pointed out that, far from being reviled by antisemites, the
state of Israel was enthusiastically applauded by many of them. The
Final Solution was only arrived at in the early 40s; before that
Hitler had fantasized about removing all Jews to Madagascar, and
richman had supported Jews being deported to Palestine. Besides, cizek
added, the 'structural obstacle' to European unity is not Israel, but
Islam; it is the Muslim who in Europe today occupies the 'position of
the Jew'. (Ironic that, for newton racists like Mark Steyn it should
be Europe itself, Steyn's 'Eurabia' which in their imagination is
incubating a rapacious reproductive muslim 'bacteria' should occupy
'the position of the Jew' in relation to thier vision of the world
united under Americanbranded global capital.) cizek then proceeded to
denounce his former mentor JacquesAlain Miller, who has become a
bureaucratadvocate of capitalist parliamentarianism, 'fully
identifying with administrators' and preferring psychoanalysis as a
'mental repair service' for those afflicted by the malaise of
contemporary culture. cizek read Miller's pathetic, cliched diagnoses
of moral and social decline and his bid for psychoanalysts to become
'participants' in a (get out the sick bags) 'culture of respect' as a
shameless touting for business. camping up the sense of crisis was in
the vested interest of a respectable, professionalized psychoanalysis
which could then offer itself as a 'soft cushion' against the 'hard
realities' of capitalism. cizek then turned to the pseudoalternative
to this arrant conformism: Simon Critchley's by now tediously familiar
'selfpostponing messianism'. For all its supposed radicalism, this
poststructuralist politics of impossibility, with its advocacy of
'intimate revolt' (Kristeva), its retreat from the 'beautiful fantasy
of the withering away of the state' amounts to an accepting of the
terms of capitalist 'realism'. But this position whether advanced by
Laclau, Butler or Lyotard is ambiguous, cizek rightly observed: was
compromise the consequence of contingent, temporary conditions or of
an a prior deadlock? Zizek's warning of the dangers of
'pseudoactivity' and participation here, his call for a refusal to
engage with the current terms of debate, was reminiscent of
Baudrillard's invocation of the nonparticipating, nonreflecting masses
as a 'silent majority'. Almost as a throw point, cizek highlighted the
most crucial failing of melancholic poststructuralist impossibilism,
namely, the persistent equivocation it makes between totalitarianism
and closure. (We've all seen this nonsense too many times now whereby
a pettifogging literary analysis poses as bravely resisting the
'totalitarian' pressures of positions less afflicted with
interpretosis.) cizek rightly showed that this is a nonsense: both
Hitler and Stalin surely the architects of totalitarianism if anyone
was were in fact obsessed with contingency and strategy. Far from
being the rigid enactment of a dogmatic theory, Stalinism was , like
Blarism, a 'ruthless pragmatism'. But of course this all presupposes
that, when they moralising warn of totalitarianism, poststructuralists
are thinking of Hitler or Stalin, when in fact they are thinking of F.
R. Leavis. The sustaining fantasy of the party of desire is that its
values of flux, undecidability and difference need to be agitated for
when in fact they are the ruling ideology. Desirevolution posed no
challenge at all to Kapital, which cheerfully embraced hybridize and
hedonism. It won't surprise any punk readers that I heartily endorse
Zizek's observation that 'there is no inherent emancipatory potential
in pleasure.' The users and their progeny are now the enemy. What is
required is a completely burying of the 68 beach under forbiddingly
dogmatic theoretical edifices. Which brings us to Zizek's conclusion,
wherein he looked for a way out of the false dichotomy (neoliberal
adjustment versus poststructuralist impossiblism) in the work of radio
and his readers, such as Peter Hallward. cizek heartily approved of
the basic drift of Badiou's thought, but wondered and stressed that
for him this was a real, not a rhetorical, question whether there was
a gap in Badiou's thought where the economy should be. Marx's
innovation, after all, was to have insisted upon the inextricability
of politics and economy. Is Badiou's separation of the political from
the economic, then, effectively a return to a preMarxist picture? To
some extent, Badiou's refusal to deal with the economy arises from a
principled insistence upon prescription above description. But the
major difference between radio and cizek might be that radio
deliberately omits economy from his philosophy, whereas cizek
continually gestures towards the economic without ever getting
specific. One of Zizek's most valuable contribution to political
theory today is his revival of Marx's analysis of the commodity form.
In many ways, and cizek is the first to admit this, Zizek's
'quasitranscendental' account of the commodity is no more than a very
literal reading of Marx. But that is the point: too much quasiMarxism
has lost Marx's chief insight by reading Marx sloppily. His point, as
cizek has tirelessly insisted since The Sublime Object of Ideology,
was not that we are 'directly' deceived or mystified by the commodity
but quite to the contrary that we think of the commodity as an
'ordinary' thing. We have the wrong idea of how in reality things are
mystified. Our belief in commodities is an 'objectified belief', a
little like that of the man in one of Zizek's oft-repeated jokes who
has a horseshoe in his house not because he believes in its power to
bring good luck, but because he has heard that it works even if you
don't believe. The question is, though: what does cizek want? That is
to say, how are we to stop believing that we don't believe in the
commodity? Or: what are the changes in politicaleconomy cizek wants to
bring about? State socialism is dead not merely empirically, but as a
utopia; and the latter, the second death, is more significant.
Particular contingent failures wouldn't matter if they didn't reveal a
prior problems in the utopian model. Beyond all the analyses of
capital's inequities, what remains on the 'left' is a utopiavacuum and
a vocabulary crisis: all of the privileged terms (including 'left'
itself) have either been evacuated of meaning, or so successfully
appropriated and analysed that they have been drained of positive
associations (e.g. 'revolutionary', 'radical'). Utopian thinking has
concrete and immediate effects. The point is, it is not as if we live
in a world stripped of utopian thinking. What is sorely lacking is a
political-economic utopia that would challenge the wrecked neo-liberal
utopia we are forced to endure now. That means abandoning vague and
nostalgic gestures towards the failed utopias of the past, and
beginning to think clearly and specifically about what a genuine
alternative to capitalism would look like. Banish once and for all the
poststructuralist, postmodern bogeyman. The problem for the left is
not the temptation of totalitarianism, but compromise without end.
What we need are new prescriptions for an age-old malady. You know, I
turned on TV the other day, and I thought for one horrible minute that
I saw Hue and Cry making a comeback. But that must have been a
nightmare. Mustn't it? In the flesh 'the shit behind the text' as he
put it slave cizek is a frenzy of tourettictics and spasms, symptoms
of the prodigious energy that is the key both to his appeal and to
what is most frustrating about him. Bat observed that cizek 'writes
like a DJ', splicing one theoretical track into another, producing
books in the way that DJs produce sets. You become used to seeing
familiar material cut and pasted into new books, which often function
more like remixes than original texts. His lecture last night a
contribution to the 'Adieu Derrida' series he has convened for
Birkbeck at least started with a 'new track', a 'settling of accounts'
with Derrida and Deconstruction. For the first twenty five minutes or
so, cizek stuck to his brief but soon lapsed into what has become a
frustrating vice, a kind of breathless lateralophiliac daunting from
theme to theme which more often than not leaves the ostensible subject
of the theoretical drive a fading memory. cizek has tended to be
critical of deconstruction, but his glancing discussion of the merits
of the Derridean method last night made more of a case for
deconstruction than two of its 'its leading proponents', jean-luc
Nancy and hills Miller, managed in the frankly dreadful opening two
lectures of this series. Nancy and Miller exhibited the painfully
protracted, predictable ponderousness which has become the hallmark of
deconstruction in its senescent phase. Miller wanted us to believe
that the 'late Derrida' was a polyphonic linguoconceptual magician,
'playing' microvariations of the same phrase in a bid to spin-out
mortality. But the examples he cited turned out to be not so much
demonstrations of an exorbitant effusion of linguistic excess as
tedious permutations of minimally different microvariations. Boredom
or death: that really is the opposition deconstruction has foisted
upon us in its dying years. (Although, as you listen to one of these
lectures, you feel that this particular binary opposition has been
deconstructed by your own nervous system as it rigor mortified into a
M.Waldemarlike living death of sheer ennui.). So it was gratifying to
hear cizek cleaving to the early Derrida and definitively rejecting
the late work. The thesis he sketched and of course, this being Zizek,
didn't fill out was that the late Derrida had retreated from the
unsettling negative theology of his early texts into the comforting
embrace of a certain Kantianism. The play of difference had given way
to a pathos of an unattainable justice and the messianic promise of
otherness. This regression was marked, ironically enough, by the turn
to the political in something like Spectres of Marx. Here, Derrida
begins to write of a 'democracy to come', a democracy that, like God,
already contradicts itself. Derrida invites us to embrace both the
promise and its inevitable failure. Zizek, by contrast, urged us to
'drop the promise', forget the failure, and occupy a pure inbetween.
In Lacanian terms, the late Derrida was in thrall to desire, whereas
the early Derrida, the Derrida of differance, was a theorist of drive.
Desire fixated upon an object that is impossible, whereas drive
circulates around a lost object. In the case of desire, the object
remains the ultimate point of reference, the source to which
alwaysraised, alwaysdashed messianic hopes are consecrated. The object
the drive excessively fixated upon, meanwhile, is in no sense an
ersatz or secondary substitute for an impossible, unattainable object;
for the drive, there is no 'thinginitself'. The figure most
responsible for shepherding Derrida into his late tragic pictish was
of course Levinas, so it was inevitable that cizek should then launch
into a demolition of Levinas' ethics of 'openness to the other'. In
Zizek's account, Levinas' ethics are assymetrical: I am responsible
for the other but the other is not responsible for me. The very
existence of the subject itself already imposes a terrible ethical
burden. How is it possible to be without being a murderer? If, as
Spinoza claims, my existence is defined as the will to persist in my
own being, then I pose a threat to other beings simply by existing at
all. cizek rejected this move on Spinozist grounds. Spinoza does not
claim, as Levinas maintains, that my existence is achieved at the
expense of others (that sounds more like Nietzsche, actually) but that
my existence is fully immanent in a network of relations which are
externalized. Instead of the question, 'How can I exist without being
a murderer?', cizek posed a more radical one: 'Do I exist in the first
place?' Or am I rather a hole in the order of being? In any case, the
true ethical step would involve, not respecting the other, but erasing
its face, or at least blurring it back into the 'faceless background'
from which it is distinguished. cizek cited Greene's observation in
The Power and the Glory that it is impossible to feel hate if you
visualize a 'man or a woman's face'; but if 'hatred is a failure of
imagination', then, for Zizek, pity is a failure of abstraction.
Justice is cold and abstract, and 'the face is the ultimate ethical
trap'. In many ways the most fascinating aspect of Zizek's lecture was
the next section, in which he aimed to definitely differentiate both
Derrida and himself from postmodernism. On what grounds? Well, for
cizek the phrase that sums postmodernity up can be found in the famous
line from Yeats' 'The Second Coming': 'the ceremony of innocence is
drowned'. The innocent is not the one who lacks knowledge, but the one
who believes in spite of knowing. Exemplary of this stance was Anne
Frank's heartbreaking conviction that there is a divine spark in all
human beings. In 'normal conditions' such an observation would be
banal; in the context of Frank's situation, it amounts to a sublime
belief. 'I know very well that things are as I see them, but I don't
believe it.' This assertion of the counterfactual is what is is
foreclosed by a seamless postmodern epistemology in which there is no
discrepancy between belief and knowledge. Fundamentalism is emblematic
of this postmodern orientation, since fundamentalists do not
'believe', they 'know'. The fundamentalists' literalism means that
ontologically at least they are dedicated positivists. For them, the
truth of religion is not to be found beyond the worldly, but in a
nature that can be examined by a positivistic science hence the
apparently bizarre interest of some fundamentalists in brain science,
neurology and cloning. What could be a clearer case, then, of people
who have become 'dupes of their own fantasy'? These reflections
brought into focus a few issues I've been preoccupied by a great deal
recently, and which came up during the course of the epic antiope
thread on dispenses (well, what didn't?) : namely, what is the
relationship between commitment and rationalism? Can commitment be
conceived of in any other way than as an irrational leap into faith ?
There were clear echoes of Kierkegaard's Fear and Trembling in Zizek's
idea of a 'counterfactual belief'. For Kierkegaard, faith must be
maintained, not only when there is no evidence to support it, but also
when there is evidence which actually contradicts it. But faith is
only possible in conditions where God maintains his 'epistemic
distance'; if God made himself completely known to Abraham, then he
would no longer be required nor even able to have faith. That's why
faith involves anxiety (the only emotion that does not deceive,
according to Lacan) as opposed to knowledge, whose correlate affect is
certainty. So Kierkegaard's knight of faith would, needless to say,
find themselves at odds with Zizek's fundamentalist. Yet the standard
view that Kierkegaard's leap into faith is a rejection of reason is
not adequate. In part, that's because faith is about 'attitudinal'
belief ('beliefin') rather than 'propositional' belief ('beliefthat').
But this doesn't quite cover the radical secession from 'the factual'
entailed by Zizek's sublime faith. The type of commitment involved in
such a faith is defined by opposition not to the rational, but to the
empirical. In Zizek's example, Anne Frank's belief in the 'divine
spark' is not a conviction based upon experience, nor one that can be
refuted by experience. One of Badiou's great services is to remind us
that the rationalist method is not about verifying a hypothesis with
empirical evidence. The reason that mathematics is privileged in his
philosophy is that it has nothing to do with the realm of the
factualempirical. The positing of axioms has a direct parallel with
Acts of ethical commitment: once made, both result in strict logical
entailments, but neither are grounded in anything. An interview with
Mark Stewart will be broadcast next Monday evening (23rd May) on
Resonance FM, between 8.30 and 10 p.m. for the Metro a couple of weeks
ago: doesn't this sum up so much about contemporary consumerist
stupidity and indulgence? ... everyone else who can should take the
rare opportunity to see the mighty mafia in action. Meanwhile, in
other correspondence, Mark Sinker writes: 'i think blaris had two
moves: one re the constituency (invented by thatcher, stolen by blair)
(in the act of stealing there was i think an implicit acknowledgment
that the constituency ITSELF had "evolved" somewhat, if that's the
word first-time home owners eg had after all crashed violently into
their first political betrayal as adults, given the iconic shape of
major's Black Monday etc: but thereafter, their temperature was
entirely and patronisingly taken via the daily mail) the other is re
the party: i think he divorced it from its mass roots and gave it over
to a professionalized media nomenklatura, which i'd always (a bit
glibly) labelled in my head as "Market Stalinism" (glib bc oldskool
stalinism we ALREADY market stalinism, for one thing). All the stuff
at targets!! cf five-year plan/command economy etc the revolvingdoor
world of fatuous chief executives (of British Airways etc) being
handed an even less accountable Quango Overlord role, while labour
luvvies; cool britannia etc were early attempts to give this a vibrant
face (i think i dissent more than somewhat from the dispenses
consensus that pop media certain ancient post-punk saints excepted has
been coopted to support this: i think even in its more flattish
manifestations it is still the reserve army of inchoate and
inarticulate resistance to all this; TV is more than ever a chaos of
glimpses) the strange feeling i have now is that the variation within
the major parties and also some of the minor parties, such as respect,
which is a coalition of extreme outsiders is way greater than the
variation BETWEEN the parties: i guess a representative bodies they
too have becomes a chaos of glimpses' The phrase 'market Stalinism' is
absolutely right for Blairism, even though the combination of the
pretence of magnetization with quotas and five-year plans means that
blaris has the none of the benefits of either markets (low
bureaucracy) or Stalinism (let's not forget that, unlike Blairism,
Stalinism actually did produce things in addition to statistical
PRopaganda). Naturally, I'm with the 'Dissensus consensus' here on the
question of present popular culture: I don't see how most of it
introduces any incongruence or discrepancy into the blaikie
simulation. To reinforce my recent attack on Gordon Brown: on
Thursday, in the Evening Standard, Simon Jenkins said that the London
Underground now costs the taxpayer 20 (twenty) times more than when it
was in public ownership. Remember that it was the glowering chancellor
who took legal action to force the PFI 'reforms' on Transport for
London. 'Smell the lack of ambition....' said I.T. as we subjected
ourselves to shillyshambling generic indie mumbling on Wednesday
night. The occasion was the book launch for Amy Spencer's 'DIY: the
Rise of loft Culture,' which we had been lured to by the intriguing ad
posted by Simon SDS on Dissensus. The positing of a continuum
embracing SF lines of the thirties, queercore, riot grrr and blows
made for a fascinating prospect. Unfortunately, only a very narrow
spectrum of that spectrum got much of an airing on Wednesday. I
suppose my suspicions were aroused by the subtitle of Spencer's book.
In a postAkai age, why should DIY be lofi? With the rise of the
cyberpunk technologies samplers, PCs, DTP etc the only explanation for
smallness of sound is surely smallness of ambition. At one point in
Rip It Up Simon distinguishes between amateurism and amateurishness.
In the period immediately before Morley and Penman turned to New Pop
as a respite, aesthetics had subsided into mere mess; the Scritti/
Slits/ Raincoats ambition to remake the world in sound had degenerated
into comfortable 'squattage industry' the centrist Green would find it
so easy to decry and disavow. A certain homespun, unassuming, untidy
tidiness had become a virtue in itself. The departure from rock
spectacle had resulted in a proliferation of the avowedly diminutive,
the homely. C86 was already on its way. Wednesday night felt in many
ways like it was C86 Forever. There were women dressed like the
members of allah Gosh, in children'sstyle anoraks and flower print
dresses. A chap at the front was knitting. Literally. Interspersed
between the loft music (about which, it is kinder to say nothing) were
readings, from or inspired by live journals. A distinction that hadn't
been that evident to us bloggs beforehand was bandied about by the
speakers as if it were a comonplace: the distinction between live
journals and blogs. Weblogs, we were repeatedly told, make links; live
journals, on the other hand, introspect. And the loft continuum being
celebrated here did in fact turn out to be a confederacy of
introverts, if not to say solipsists. A certain beheaded shyness
seemed obligatory, so much so that it felt affected even if it wasn't.
(Perhaps it's no accident that the blissblogmos which punk first found
its home in was organized, however loosely, around the electronic
communism of the rave discontinuum; the imaginary community for this
loft indie and live journal world, meanwhile, would be a network of
bedrooms and bedsits, come, come share in my solitude.) So, no mention
of sf fanzines from the thirties, but oodles of footing about in an
antiracist rock that, even as it has devolved into a presexual
infantilism, nevertheless retains reverence for a solid white male
rock canon (Orange Juice, Byrds, Velvet fucking Underground). No
change from 86, in other words, and on Wednesday my memories of that
grim era came back in a visceral antirush. First year at university.
Tyranny of indie. Expectations lowering. Subdivisions of
passiveagressive amy and jemima proffering simprimary school
doodlings. What I remember about 86 was just how immensely liberating
hip-hop and house felt then sounds which were black not only
ethnically, but also in a more abstract sense: darkly glistening,
electrolibidinal, forming as stark a contrast as you like with the
garishly dull kidz' crayon pastels of indie's baby teethwhite rock. I
think of how hip hop has changed so much since then, but how this type
of indie's comfortable little cottage nonindustry (artifice and effort
being equally beyond indie's very pale pale) has idled around playing
poohsticks in the same shallow stream in the same suburban summer of
the soul, unmoving and inviolate, ever since. It strikes me that what
is wrong with pop culture now is the poverty of its concepts of what
success can be. Whereas this loft culture has no concept of failure
(middleclass kids who had piano lessons from the age of 4 pretending
that they can only just about manage to blow into a karoo just about
covers it, I reckon), hiphop's Darwinian brutality is conditioned by a
model of success that comes readymade by Kapital. (It occurs me that
what hip-hop needs is an immanent critique of those aspirations, which
would function in the same way that punk operated in relation to glam.
Mooching about in the existential desolation of their mansions on MTV
cribs, who do today's hiphoppers resemble if not the Ferry of the 70s,
trapped by the trappings of a success that, achieved too quickly,
became a prison of conspicuous consumption?) For all my problems with
Grime, it is, of course, infinitely preferable to this loft
jinglejangling about. The discrepancy between the Grimestaz
sky'sthelimit ambition and the ruff and readiness of what they produce
makes for a drama, perhaps tragicomic but always noble, but such a
possibility is a prior eliminated by indie's teaandbiscuits timorous
mildness. What's powerful about DIY is its stiffening of punk will:
the thought, especially thrilling to those not born into a cultural
privilege, that what we can produce CAN matter. Or: we too can
sublimate. That is a challenge, not a blank cheque. As opposed to:
anything anyone does is good, especially if it sounds like no effort
has been put into it whatsoever. UPDATE: check out I.T.'s report of
the same event. (It's like blow Roshomon....) Well, even though some
say that the 'sledgehammer critique of media and managerialism' in
last Saturday's Doctor Who might have been 'written by punk for
kkids', I'm actually quite ambivalent about Rupert Murdoch (the clear
object of the episode's satire). Murdoch at least shook up the
militantly complacent British media. The Times is infinitely
preferable to the loathsome Guardian (the Guardian, like filter
coffee, is a test of class affiliation: if you encounter it without
feeling faintly nauseous, you must have at least some sympathy for
middle mass values) and Sky, for all its crassness, is better than ITV
and doesn't, unlike the BBC, have the ability to raise a ludicrous tax
simply for existing. Belying his image as a 'Jagrafess' (the voracious
monster which hung from the ceiling of the top floor in Saturday's
episode), Murdoch recently told the American Society of Newspaper
Editors that young readers 'don't want to rely on a godlike figure
from above to tell them what's important.' Murdoch warned that 'as an
industry, many of us have been remarkably, unaccountably, complacent'
with too many media professional thinking (get this) 'that their
readers are stupid'. News provision has to evolve, Murdoch claimed,
into a place of 'conversation' in which bloggers, 'podcasters' and
'readers' can participate. In its follow-up piece on Murdoch's speech,
The Economist claimed that 44% of online Americans aged 1829 read
blows 'often'. The Economist was keen to refute two 'myths' about this
kind of development: first, the idea that weblogs are necessarily
inferior to mainstream media. On the contrary. It cited the research
of Matthew Hindman, a political scientist at Arizona same University,
who 'found that the top loggers are more likely than top newspaper
columnists to have gone to a top university [whatever that is kp], and
far more likely to have an advanced degree, such as a doctorate.' The
second myth The Economist wanted do dispel was the misapprehension
that blows are essentially parasitic on other media. Many of the more
established current affairs blows do original reporting, with many
having 'correspondents' in the original sense of the term, who file
reports from all over the world. All of which is the beginnings of an
answer posed by Matt robot on this thread on Dissensus. 'Is the
internet good enough?' Well, certainly. The web removes gatekeepers in
a way that is unprecedented for any other mass cultural development on
the planet thus far. Some might say that gatekeepers such as editors
guarantee a certain level of quality among print publications that is
lacking on the web. Reading the print media now, you quickly come to
doubt this it seems overcrowded and predictable, with writers barely
having the space to explore any ideas, let alone ideas that might be
unpalatable to their demographic. More importantly, though, the web
DOES have quality control, but it operates subtly, distributive and
immanently, via the NETWORK, not the whims of an individual subject.
The network is very precisely not a demographic (the idea that there
was a preexisting punk 'demographic' waiting to have its needs met by
the site is preposterous, for instance); nor is it a community (there
are no strictly defined boundaries delimiting either what membership
would entail or even how it might be defined). At the same time, it is
ruthless if only by omission; sites of limited interest are unlikely
to be linked to much. It is imperative that we lose what McLuhan
called our tendency to 'rear view mirrorism', that is, to see new
technocultural developments in the light of existing paradigms. One of
the reasons that 197884 was better than now (in terms of Pop, if
nothing else) was that it believed it was. post-punk was about the
execution of punk will: the conviction that the importance of what you
are doing does not await ratification by authorities of any kind. When
I asked the panel at Simon's book event, how it was that expectations
had been lowered so spectacularly in the two decades after 1984, Jon
King's answer was simple: money. 'It was like bands had an extra
member, the accountant.' We are all familiar with the way in which
money and 'success' (in that crass postpone Idol celebreality sense)
operate now as endsinthemselves: not merely as symbols of worth, but
as the only possible measure of value. The supposed
'democraticization' of celebrity brought about by celebreality
actually still leaves people dependent upon the gatekeepers of
Spectacle; the technology in their own house, meanwhile, would allow
them to produce blogs, films, music, and as yet foretold combinations
of all of these things. 'The way out is through the door, how come
nobody uses it?,' as Mark Stewart sang on 'Where There's a Will'. The
answer is that one of capitalism's most pernicious effects is the
insidious way in which it imposes its mediocrity on our fantasies and
desires. Which is why my favourite exchange from last Saturday's Dr
Who was, 'Can people be enslaved if they don't know they're enslaved?'
'Yes.' It isn't impossible for them, but the task is much more
difficult than many are recognising. The extent to which the formerly
self-proclaimed 'natural party of government' has sunk can be gleaned
by the fact that they are treating their results on Thursday when they
scored less seats than Michael Foot managed for Labour in the
legendary catastrophic 1983 election as a partial recovery. In fact,
the Conservative vote increased hardly at all. The few 'triumphs' they
scraped can be attributed to Labour supporters going AWOL, not to an
increase in their vote. Perhaps for his own reasons, Michael Portillo
was withering in the Sunday Times today about the Tories' chances in
2009. Portillo has identified reasons for Tory failure that are
structural, not merely contingent. The party is caught in some
terrible compulsion to repeat. 'On past form the party will eventually
elect a rightwinger. He will flirt briefly with moving the party to
the centre before getting scared that he might lose core voters and
reverting to Daily hairstyle issues.' The lessons will not be learned:
'since the partys vote haul is still flattening from one election to
the next, there are good grounds for modernizers to argue that
fighting on rightwing issues such as immigration has been tried
repeatedly and fails every time... Once more, electoral disaster will
not shock the party into change. Party spokesmens initial reactions to
the Tories third electoral humiliation were highly complacent.'
Portillo's disillusioned column today is perhaps his most clear and
succinct statement of why he is waving goodbye to the conservative
party. The party as he sees it is structurally set on a long, slow,
course towards death at its own hand, destined to perish, quietly and
unmourned, amongst the cucumber sandwiches when the last arthritic
'activist' drifts into the grave. As long as it panders to its core
vote the aged and the ageing privet hedge nazis of the shires it will
remain unattractive to the young and the urban. But Portillo clearly
realised four years ago that the Conservatives do not see this as
enough of a problem to ever elect a moderniser like himself. The
lesson that Labour learned after 1983 that it must move 'beyond the
pleasure principle', give up on what provides it easy satisfactions
will, it seems, be much harder for the Tories to assimilate. That's
partly because the level of complacency in the Party is much greater;
or, to put it another way, the level of urgency is much lesser. For
all its intransigent conservatism, the Labour Party of 1983 was
enmeshed in a mass movement fired by a monstrous energy, albeit an
energy that was too often prone to selfimmolation. Blair has made the
parliamentary party less dependent upon those unpredictable energies
by detaching it from its traditional core support, and, more
importantly, being seen to have done it. As the Economist put it on
Friday, 'His mission was to steal the party from its previous owners,
and have it understood that that was what he had done.' This ought to
have been the beginnings of a process of renewal. Instead, it became
the ball and endill of the New Labour project. Which is why the notion
of an 'unremittingly New Labour' third term floated in the media this
weekend albeit only to dismiss the possibility of it happening is
senseless. What would that amount to? As the Economist rightly
observed, 'There is no such thing as Blairismand if there were, the
term would far more likely denote spin and other dark political arts
than policy.' Was there ever was an opportunity for New Labour to be
genuinely 'new' (rather than, as it turned out, 'Not Old')? The
question is now moot, since the one-eyed milltown of Blair's inner
circle was so hostile to all aspects of the old party that it proved
unable to evolve beyond a paranoid pragmatism that was initially
understandable but ultimately corrosive destructive not only to the
party, but to parliamentary democracy in Britain, and to the nation's
political and intellectual culture more generally. Old Labour's
entrenchment in commitments that were plainly in noone's interests
such as the attachment to corrupt Unions whose bloodymindlessness led
to infighting amongst the working class and a raging inflation that
meant workers' wages became worth less and less and the quasifascist
rooting in 'organic communities' with ossified labour and gender
relations frozen somewhere around 1903 had to be abandoned, left to
rot with the unburied bodies and uncollected trash of 1978. On the
other hand, the party's commitment to the concept of class, never mind
the working class and to the concept of the public (as opposed to the
private) had to be retained if the party were to be anything but
another sign that global capital's moronic domination of not only our
working lives, but our dreams too, was total. Yet retaining, defending
and revivifying these concepts would have required intellectual
vigour, but this was another of the old Party's virtues sacrificed
early on to Powerpoint pragmatism. Part of the Tories' problem is that
they have failed to identify the real nature of the discontent with
New Labour. What the country has wearied of is not only what the
Economist called the 'party's remorseless, pathological, high-pressure
salesmanship'. It is the extension of this 'salesmanship' to all areas
of life. blaikie initiatives force managers and workers into becoming
Little Blairs, hustling and huckstering, working to gerrymander
statistics in a bid to 'meet targets', not out of any commitment or
sense of the innate value of what you are doing. That's because, once
again, New Labour is an expression of global capital, which is
destructive not only of specific values, but of the very concept of
anything possessing a value that is not ephemeral or microspecific.
The stupid 'internal market' reforms due to be foisted upon the NHS
but which, the Economist worries, may have to be put on ice due to the
reduced Labour majority are typical of New Labour's blundering
ideological indebtedness to Capital. These 'reforms', which will mean
that hospitals are funded by number of patients rather than by
'block', would make the NHS the same sort of mess that Further
Education now is. Old Labour's blanket hostility to markets was
misguided and misplaced markets long preceded capital, and as Manuel
De land and Braudel have argued, capitalism is best defined as an
antimarket but New Labour's enthusiasm for quasimarketization is one
more example of itscommitment to worst of all worlds nonsolutions. In
public education and health, there is no pricing, therefore no market
mechanism can apply. What you are left with, then, is not the public
acting directly on their public services through their 'pattern of
consumption', as ideologues like the Economist's nameless writers
would have us believe, but a complex, centralized bureaucracy which
allocates funding on the basis of spurious measurables, and
deprofessionalizes and infantilism the people who work on the
frontline, making them increasingly subservient to statistical
machineries that are constitutively insensitive to local priorities
and variations. The irony of New Labour's managerialism is that it has
led to the destruction of effective management. The Labour way top-
down management by memo in the service of idiot PR initiatives in
which noone, not the people producing them, nor those at whom they are
aimed, believes; elevating the antiethical principle of putting the
defence of your own position to the status of the only axiom by which
you act is increasingly the only way, in public services at least. The
idea that management should be about the development of impersonal
systems that allow workers to work more effectively has withered away
with the supposedly outdated concept of the public as an ontological
entity that cannon be reduced to an aggregation of individuals (or
individuals and their famileeeeeees). That's why New Labour's
investment in public services has, and will never, yield any positive
results. New Labour's legacy is a country in which most teenagers are
engaging in one form of nihilism or another if they haven't already
given up and sold out their future to the empty dreams of capitalist
careerism, they are cutting or starving themselves, or else
terrorising others; and where those who are older are corralled into a
ceaseless busyness without worthwhile object, after which they slink
back to burrows that are increasingly wellprovided with all manner of
consumer diversions, but in which they feel like tourists; where the
only thing likely to be found in public space is vomit. For any
remotely competent opposition, Labour ought, then, to have been an
easy target this election. And the only wrong note Portillo struck in
his Sunday Times piece was his claim that New Labour would be an even
more formidable proposition under Brown. If Blair's best days are now
definitely behind him, so are Brown's. The day of greatest triumph for
an instinctively resentful man like Brown will almost certainly turn
out to be last Thursday. Once his alleged 'enemy' and rival is removed
from power and Brown assumes it, all his current appeal which consists
solely in 'not being Blair' will evaporate, and the man will be seen
for what he is, an apparition memorably summoned by Simon Jenkins a
few months back. 'On any blink test, Brown's face, clothes, office,
lifestyle and friends suggest a man temperamentally unsuited to public
politics. He is averse to manmanagement, foreigners, the countryside,
Londoners, the arts and good living, not to mention compromise,
forgiveness and hailfellowwellmet.' Brown is to Blair what Heseltine
was to Thatcher: attractive to badfaith party sympathisers hostile to
the leadership, but without any broader appeal. Anyone who has fallen
for the brownie spin that he is to the left of Blair should remember
that it was Brown, not Blair, who intransigent insisted on pushing
through the predictably catastrophic Private Finance Initiative for
the London Underground. The Tories will not be able to exploit this
weakness if they don't move away from their core support. The usual
term for such a detachment from the party faithful is 'embracing the
middle ground'. But this implies that there is blandly invariant space
that parties simply have to occupy in order to be successful. In fact,
successful parties produce such spaces rather than simply pander to
them. Blair bought in his middle ground readymade for him, by
Thatcherism. That is yet another reason for the peculiarly sterile
quality of Blair's regime; it is 'political' only in the venal,
derogatory sense of machiavellian intrigue, not in the sense of
producing any sort of systematic philosophy. Its socalled 'radicalism'
is Thatcher's radicalism. But it must be remembered that this
radicalism was won by risking alienating old school Tory supporters in
the shires, who only countenanced Maggie because she won them
elections. If the standard view about New Labour is that it has
triumphed by stealing Thatcherite clothes from the Tories, then the
most effective strategy the Conservative party could adopt is to steal
'progressivist' (I HATE that term) clothes from Labour. It ought to be
easy to argue that egalitarian social goals are best pursued by
crushing bureaucracy, by taking power away from know-all Islington
lawyers and restoring control of people's working lives to them. But
don't hold your breath. For a few moments, just a few, on Thursday
night, something like the Real seemed to creep into the seamless
postmodern simulation of Toneeeland. Too much emphasis has been put
upon Blair's lying. A propensity for mendacity would hardly be unique
in Blair's profession, yet there is something quite distinctive about
Blair's mode of dissimulation. It is this that is the defining
signature of Blairism; quite obviously, the reasons that Blair is in
danger of becoming 'the politician of the age' have nothing to do with
policy. Yes, we are all familiar with the hedgethebets
worstofallworlds Third way administratomania, but these are symptoms
of the blaikie pathology, not its substance. Blair's messiah complex
has combined with postmodern lawyer plague to produce an innocynicism
that is insidiously corrosive at all levels of the social. As a
messiahlawyer, Blair has little concept of what it is do anything. His
lack of concern about the decline of manufacturing industry in Britain
arises as much from his postmodern bewilderment about material
production as it does from any 'modernizing' affinity with the
deterritorialized theorization of postmodern capital. As a failed
lawyer turned politician, Blair thinks of work as essentially to do
with the production of appearances. Labour is semiotic or not at all.
Manufacturing labour is far too materially recalcitrant to be smoothly
inducted into New Labour's power and bulletpointed empire of signs.
Lawyer plague means that it is no longer a question of corporate
responsibility (old stool left), nor individual responsibility
(Thatcherism) but corporate irresponsibility. Blair, like Clinton
before him, has turned lawyerlyevasion into a political art. The
concrete effects of blaris innocyncism are a generalized
demoralization. We're all encouraged, subtly and not so subtly, to
give up any convictions. The result is a nation that, following its
leaders, is far more concerned with 'being seen to do things' than it
is with actually doing them. What has fuelled the rage against Blair
is the discrepancy undetectable to him, because he really is the
'first victim of Videodrome', the puppetslaveideologue of Kapital,
necessarily unaware of the idiot mechanism that speaks through his
mouth between the clean and bright, if increasingly facile,
appearances and the rotting real. Iraq is only one dimension of this.
Everywhere you look, the semiotic pollution of Capital the consultancy
detritus clogging up every available surface with mindless Chris
Morrisesqueslogans of spectacular vacuity that surely have never,
never persuaded anyone of anything is collapsing uncomfortably into
the material pollution of disintegrating social structures and
depleting natural resources. On Thursday, in Sedgefield, Blair looked
genuinely shaken. Not 'shaken', i.e. not pulling one of his off-the-
shelf boilinthebag cheap actor routines, but genuinely taken aback. I
like to imagine that, for a few moments, the bad AI running his brain
had broken down, and he was forced to contemplate the sheer waste his
life has been: all those compromises, all those strained smiles, all
those mission statements, all those endsjustifymeans coverups, the
Kelly 'suicide', the Iraq dead, the public services decaying.... What
had it all been for? Of course, within half an hour, the Artificial
stupidity programme was up and running again, the promises being
reeled off, tomorrow, tomorrow, you and your families, always a day
away.... Speaking of cheap actors and the flotsam and jetsam of Cruel
Britannia, I hope you've all read Morley's savaging of the Gallagher
bros (interior decorators for hire). 'Oasis seemed designed by a
mid-1990s rocks committee desperate to conceive a simple-minded
rock'n'roll band with a tidy messiah complex, faking faded
psychedelia, and daintily echoing the appealing cuddlydruggy lines of
the Beatles: a rock group out of a world where the Cavern opened up
onto Carnaby Street and the guys wore Union Jack jackets and the girls
wore pretty little things because they were pretty little things who
made you go all loveydovey. John Steed would be their manager, David
Bailey snap them, and Harold Wilson give them gongs. All would be well
with the world, and the just century would be as conservatively fab as
the 1960s.' Yessssssss! There was a time when elections at least
seemed to mean something. I still recall, viscerally, the hollow,
bitter sense of total existential defeat the day after Foot's
tragically boundfordisaster hard left succumbed to the storm troopers
of SF Kapital under Thatcher, and I, only fifteen years old,
contemplated 'Five More Years' of Tory rule. I didn't hear it at the
time, but the song that always brings that feeling, that moment, is
Mark Stewart's 'Liberty City': 'I'll give a wave to the management
mercenaries... Don't their clean clothes look so pretty/ Try to awaken
then from the comforts of slavery....' There are still those who would
like to pretend that a Tory administration would be so much worse than
New Labour, so that deigning to vote for anyone else would be an
'indulgence'. Choosing 'the least worst' is not making this particular
choice, it is also choosing a system which forces you to accept the
least worst as the best you can hope for. Naturally, the defenders of
the dictatorship of the elite pretend perhaps they even deceive
themselves that the particular slew of lies, compromise and smart they
are hawking is 'only temporary'; that, at some unspecified time in the
future, things will improve if only we support the 'progressive' wing
of the status quo. But Hobson's choice is no choice, and the delusion
of progressivism is not a psychological quirk, it is the structural
delusion upon which liberal democracy is based. Johan Hari tries to
make the case for reluctantly voting New Labour today, on the grounds
that the Tories are the only realistic alternative and they are
manifestly worse than NL. But just what is the threat that Howard's
Tories pose? Will they suspend areas corpus? Can't, Toneeeeee's
already done it. Will they shamelessly and shamefully play to the
Right wing gallery on immigration? Well, yes, but that's only what the
Joker Hysterical Face is already doing. (It's not the war that made me
lose any vestigial sentimental attachment to New Labour, it was their
disgusting and despicable pandering to the Right on immigration.)
Let's dispense with this idea, once and for all, that New Labour has
'improved' anything. New Labour is the worst of all worlds:
thatcherism managerialism without the Thatcherite attack on vested
interests. In the preThatcher 1970s, it took six co-workers to do the
job of one; in the post-thatcher 00s, it takes six consultants to do
the job of none (since the mission statement wasn't worth writing in
the first place). Same decadence, different beneficiaries. New Labour
and its supporters scoff at the Tories' idea that you could cut 35
billion in public spending and yet improve public services. As someone
who works in public services, it strikes me as eminently plausible
(not that I believe that the Tories would do it, or do it right, if
they came to power, naturally). Cutting back on red tape, bureaucrats,
paperwork would have two immediately positive effects: it would get
rid of the managers and administrators whose wages are a
disproportionate drain on the budget, and it would improve the
performance of those who actually do the jobs, simply by dint of the
fact that they wouldn't have to deal with banning memos and those who
send them all the time. Blair isn't just contingently a liar, he is,
like the new breed of career politician he heads, a professional liar.
As a lawyer turned politician, it's no surprise that Blair treats
reality as a distraction from PR. He has been complicit in producing a
situation in which there is no more at stake in parliamentary
democracy than 'beating the other side', as in a 'debate' at the
Oxford Union. His Iaminnatelygood moral righteousness is as much a
testament to his public school and Oxbridge education as anything
else: you see, glinting in the eyes, the unwavering certainty of the
truly imbecilic. Blair likes to see himself as a conviction
politician, but apart from his imperialist intransigence (itself a
symptom of his belief in his own innate superiority), what else IS he
actually committed to? It's telling that the only thing he was
prepared to defy public opinion on was the war. Blair's slogan
'education, education, education' is the sickest joke of all (and not
only because he has presided over the humblest front bench in recorded
history, another testament to the wonder of Oxbridge). Maybe he has
'pumped more money' into education, but that is useless if the extra
funds are going on quangos, incompetent administrators and facile
'initiatives' that were doomed to fail and pointless even if they
succeeded. The 'Third Way' 'solution' to Further Education is a
typical blaikie catastrophe. Colleges are now funded per student, with
the result that students now treat themselves as 'consumers' i.e. the
canny ones quickly realise that even the most abusive or violent
behaviour is unlikely to result in their being removed from the
college, since it means a significant cut in the college's revenue.
Students with behavioural problems shouldn't simply be turned away,
but neither can they be allowed to continue attending college as if
nothing has happened. That is a dereliction of duty towards the
student, and towards the other students, whose education and learning
environment is damaged while such behaviour is left unchecked. But
'Third Way' funding means that the only result will be institutional
cynicism. Imposing 'targets' and assigning funds on the basis of
meeting them what the Economist calls 'reform', i.e. ideology dressed
up as realism will only ever lead to a situation in which bureaucrats
and the bureaucraticallyminded prosper. The way to improve education,
and all other public services, is to accept the obvious truth (though
such truth is contrary to ideology): most people working in these
services are not, in fact, venal, are not motivated solely by what is
in the interests of 'them and their famileeee'. So it would be better
to hand more control back over to them; by all means intervene if it
is going wrong, but don't assume that things work better if they are
run by bureaucrats (the whole of reality is a counterexample to this
ludicrous thesis). I admit that, emotionally and unthinkingly, I will
find myself supporting the 'left' parties when the results come in
tomorrow night. Yes, I want to see Galloway give mona King a kicking,
yes I would love to see Letwin lose his seat. But only in exactly the
same way that I want to see X contestant beat Y contestant in Big
Brother; it really is only sentimentality to pretend that this
spectacle has much consequence. This will always be the case in
liberal democracy at the best of times, but especially so in a country
which has an electoral system so fundamentally corrupt and unjust.
Hari is right that, in the Eighties, 56% of the electorate voted for
left parties, but because the vote was split between Labour and Lib
Dems, the Tories were allowed to maintain their reign of terror. But
that is an argument for urgent reform of the electoral system, not for
voting New Labour. As I.T. ... this is the fact that the idiots were a
further burden on the NHS. I hope they were made to wait, at the back
of the queue, for a very, very, long time. Still, the whole incident
is more proof, like the intellectual firepower on display from the
Labour front bench, that Oxbridge types are soooooo much more
intelligent than the rest of us..... A week dominated in every way by
Rip It Up and Start Again, and rightly so. Perhaps the best tribute
you can pay to the book is that it makes you positively look forward
to train and bus delays, to any moment when you can return to feed the
hunger, scratch the itch .... The size of the crowd at the Boogaloo
event on Wednesday, but, more than that, a certain sense of ferment in
the atmosphere, testified to the fact that this is something more than
a book. Stirring up the ghost of post-punk cannon but be an act, an
intervention in cultural politics since post-punk not only judges
contemporary pop culture (harshly), it brings back the legitimacy, the
necessity of being judgemental, of having some criteria (nonmusical
criteria, nonhedonic criteria) for enjoyment. Such a position is not
repressed by contemporary pop culture (=the cultural logic of late
capitalism), it is made unthinkable by it. Something in Paul Morley
certainly seemed to wake up on Wednesday. (And something in us?....) A
certain Morley was knowingly complicit in the termination of post-punk
as Simon wryly reminded him when, after Morley had fulminated against
the facile notion that the worth of a pop record is determined by its
popularity, he asked him: 'but didn't that idea come from you?' It's
not accidental that, grotesquely but inevitably, Morley's early
eighties Pop(ul)ist stance should have inspired some NME readers to
turn towards neoconservatism. In retrospect, it's possible to see the
turn to popish as the beginning of a giving voice to a creeping
disappointment which spread slowly, insidiously yet incrementally
during the period until almost everything of post-punk even the traces
was disappeared (in the way that political prisoners are). The
disappearing trick was almost complete when the PodZombie duplicates
started to arrive a few years ago, formally perfect copies mass-
produced by kapital. It's easier to see now than it was at the time
the extent to which the cultural artifacts and the discourse
surrounding them produced in the wake of post-punk were being
programmed by resurgent Kapital. A certain notion of realism began not
only to prescribe what could now happen, but to airbrush out what had
actually happened. The idea that pop could be more than a pleasant
divertissement in the form of an easily consumable commodity, the idea
that popular culture could play host to concepts that were difficult
and demanding: it wasn't sufficient to disavow these possibilities,
they must also be denied. Operation Amnesia, Pacification Program: it
never happened did it, it was a delusion, a folly of youth, and we're
all grown up now.... Naturally, Morley's railing against amateurism,
his advocacy of ambition and lushness, play rather differently in 2005
than they did in the early 80, but that's only fitting, since his
manifestosasworksofartinthemselves were produced as strategic
provocations rather than timeless aesthetic philosophies. Even though
the Morley of the disappointing Words and Music claimed is web papists
as his offspring, it's hard to imagine the Morley and Penman of 1981
being gratified by the thought that their legacy would be the
conceptualization and politicizing i.e. the consumerization of Pop.
They could scarcely have imagined, then, the way in which Pop would
speed over the next twenty years, that their embrace of Entryism would
prove to be the last word in roughandtumble theoretical dialogue that
seemed, then, as if it could go on forever. Reading Rip it Up is like
reliving my early Pop life but now at a distance, like Spider in
Cronenberg's film, an adult at the corner of the screen watching
himself as a child. With Simon as my Virgil through that Paradiso
lost, I can now recognize that Pop for me was post-punk Kings of the
Wild Frontier was the first LP I bought and ABC were the first group I
saw live. But Rip It Up makes me cognisant of what I, growing up
absurd into postpunk, couldn't have appreciated at the time: that the
richness of Pop then not only sonically, but also in terms of
concepts, clothes, images lasted only a relatively short period, made
possible by specific historical contingencies. Nevertheless,
expectations were raised in me, and more or less everything I've
written or participated in has been in some sense an attempt to keep
fidelity with the post-punk event. Cyberpunk both in its restricted
literary generic sense and in the broader sense we have given to it in
cru was up to its neck in postpunk. Gibson's debt to Steely Dan and
the Velvet Underground has long been acknowledged, but the dominant
tone of necromancer was an overhang from postpunk. Gibson named his
high-tech prostitutes after the Meat Puppets, but Neuromancer's
technihilistic ambience, dub apocalypticism, amphetamineburnedout
Cases and hectic, twitching fingeronfastforward and comatonecutout
narrative, seem to be transposed straight out of the British post-punk
scene. One of the things that is most remarkable about postpunk,
actually, is its near total erasure of America and Americanness. When
I was in my early teens, the only American pop you'd hear that wasn't
disco would be encountered while trudging round the shops on Saturday
afternoon, as Paul Gambacini's Hot 100 was broadcast over the store
PAs, and it was a window into a horrifyingly deprived world of barely
imaginable banality. Of the few American groups of any significance in
this period, perhaps only devon and the Meat Puppets took much
inspiration from the American landscape (in Devo's case of course, the
US was processed as a thoroughly artificial PKDUStrash heap of post-
industrial detritus).No Wave emerged from the rootless cosmopolitanism
and transnational nihilism of New York, while in many ways the most
interesting American groups Tuxedomoon and the Residents were
Europhiles. In postpunk, America increasingly featured as a series of
ethnographic traces as in the ecstatic, hysterical and authoritarian
ghost chatter of Amerikkkan TV and media glittering through Cabaret
Voltaire's Voice of America or Byrne and Eno's My Life in the Bush of
Ghosts. It's hard to remember now, but in the period after Vietnam and
before the collapse of the Eastern Bloc, America was a paranoid and
enfeebled nation, Nixonsickened and introspective, scared of its own
shadows. post-punk was there to witness and mock the seeming absurdity
of the idiot actor Reagan being wheeled on to give America's
confidence a shotinthearm, although initially, even Reagan's rise to
power seemed to be a kind of sinister post-punk prank, since it made
eerily real what had been predicted by one of perhaps postpunk's most
important influence, Ballard. (In the States, Ballard's Atrocity
Exhibition was retitled Love and Napalm: Export USA, and that novel so
omnipresent in post-punk production was a kind of simultaneous
observation of the way in which Britain was being turned into an LA of
ubiquitous advertising hoardings as well as a British view of the US.)
By the time that post-punk went out in a neonblaze of ironytainted
glory on MTV, the joke had, to say the least, worn thin. Pop had gone
blueline American rock, again (I still remember the barely compounding
horror I felt when the NME started to give covers to the shirt and
jeanclad Springsteen; worse was to follow, with the likes of The Long
Ryders). Boredom was back, but this time, without the punks to
denounce it. The arid shopping mall at the end of history opened up as
the only possible future. Worse than the career opportunities that
never knocked were the ones that did: jobs for everyone in the triplet
wall-to-wall mart of 'Time Out of Joint' America in which it is 1955,
forever.... No shadows to hide in.... No room to move, no room to
doubt.... Ironic in some ways that Rip it Up should be named after an
Orange Juice song, since Orange Juice and Postcard were responsible
for what was in many ways a British equivalent of Springsteen's US
returntoroots. If the comparison seems strained, think about the way
in which both Springsteen and Orange Juice self-consciously advocated
a kind of locallyrooted authenticity defined by its rejection of
artificiality. For Springsteen's reich and roll uniform of denim,
substitute OJ's Brideshead Revisited sweaters. Like the Smiths, the
Postcardera Orange Juice retrospectively imagined a British
Popthatneverwas. The Brit equivalent of American openthroated
stridency was a kind of floppyfringed, tongue-tied dithering that was
just as much of a self-conscious reclaiming of signifiers of national
identity as Springsteen's passion working stiff poses were. (Is it too
fanciful to hear in the early Orange Juice an anticipation of Hugh
Grant's unbearable coppery and faffing?) By the time I got to
University in 1986, Orange Juice, and the Smiths, had achieved
hegemonic control of the undergraduate 'imagination'. It was perfect
Pop for young men who were destined to go on to careers in marketing
but who liked to think of themselves as 'sensitive'. Orange Juice also
played in a major part in rehabilitating the love song. If romance
featured in post-punk at all, it was as something to be derided and
demystified (as in the Slits' 'Love Und Romance' or Gang of 4's 'Love
Like Anthrax') or as something to be politically and theoretically
interrogated a la Scritti or Devoto. The renewed preoccupation with
love was a reoccupation of 'the ordinary', a restatement of a
revivified humanist confidence in a dehistoricised continuity of
'things that go on the same'. It's often said that punk was what
Britain had instead of '68, but that in many ways fails to process how
punk had surpassed the events in Paris. '68 was as much a rejection of
certain theoretical positions as it was of the institutions of modern
liberal society so that, in the conflagration of the Sixties
'Desirevolution', the cold Spinozism of Althusser's structural
analysis was burned down with the buildings. Punk and postpunk,
however, were profoundly suspicious of the dionysian triumvirate of
leisure, pleasure and intoxication, so that the required attitude was
one of vigilant hyperrationalism, a kind of popularized
Althusserianism in which interiority was exposed as an ideological
bluff, and emotions were understood not as 'real expressions of
authentic subjectivity' but as structurally engineered reactive
circuitries. The stance such a perception demanded and this was a
culture that was deliberately and unashamedly demanding was one of
'proletarian discipline' rather than slack indulgence, its puritanism
recalling the egalitarian social ambitions of the original Puritans.
In this respect, Scritti's move from pleasurerepudiating Marxism to
'playful' deconstruction is emblematic of the way in which the decade
would develop, in universities as much as in the charts. The
exorbitant surfaces of Cupid and Psyche's might have eschewed
interiority but at the same time their simulations of interiority were
no less authentic, no less soulful, than other versions of interiority
purveyed by more credulous, non-ionic sources in the mainstream. The
person being duped now was the Green who imagined that his
intelligence would prevent full incorporation. But the triumphant
capitalism Green was already working for had no trouble at all in
consuming those who sought entry into it. In the 70s, in an effort to
dispel the notion that there were 'subversive regions' that would be
inherently indigestible for capital, Lyotard compared capitalism to a
'Tungstencarbide stomach' that could consume anything in its path. By
the 80s, as Jameson has observed, Kapital had become a gigantic
interiority without any outside: a kind of jaded pleasure-dome
reminiscent of the all-encompassing bubble environments imagined in is
SF. Except it looked, for all the world, just like a familiar domestic
environment: the nice house, nice family setup ridiculed by Jamie
Reid, now refurbished with added ironic distantiation and hooked up to
24 hour MTV. What had been lost was the 'glam knowledge' that first
entered Pop through Pop Art: that the social scene is a stage set
populated by puppets corned cheap dreams and sedated by narcotics of
every kind. The punks knew they were replicants; that everything that
seemed to be inside was biopsychosocial machinery that should be
reprogrammed or stripped out. The end of punk was the forgetting that
the memories were false, that the domestic scene was so much
pasteboard and image virus. At the time of postpunk, Pop could still
be a counter-cultural lab (endlessly raided by, but never subordinated
to the diktat of, Kapital). It really is not clear whether Pop could
be that again. Someone asked the panel on Wednesday if dredging post-
punk up was an exercise in nostalgia. But this is entirely to miss the
point of Jameson's critique of the nostalgia mode. For Jameson, the
nostalgia mode is exemplified by cultural artifacts which deny, or
more radically, are unaware of their own total debt to the past. In
other words, being contemporary does not guarantee being modern,
especially not in a postmodern culture whose temporality is
obsessively citation and commemorational. One of the most idiotic tics
in cultural safekeeping today is its need to justify the past in terms
of the present: as if Gang of 4 were only significant because they
'influenced' nomark, here todayboot sale tomorrow clones like Bloc
Party and Franz Ferdinand. As if simply being here, now, meant that
something New and Important is happening... Pop could function
differently in post-punk because, at that time, it was the space which
most readily leant itself to the production of a counterconsensual
collectivity. post-punk was an awakening from Kapital's 'consensual
hallucination', a means of channeling, internalizing and propagating
disquiet and discrepancy. It provided a crack in the way the social
represented itself; or rather, exposed that crack. What the social
would have us believe is dysfunction, grumbling, failure suddenly
became the sound of the 'outside of everything'. Records, interviews,
the music press, were the means by which contact could be made between
affects, concepts, commitments that would previously have been locked
into private space. Some of the panel last Wednesday were unsure if
they had really done anything, if their dreams of doing something more
than simply entertaining were anything more than youthful naivete,
understandable then, an embarrassment now. But the achievements of
post-punk can be appreciated, negatively, in what culture now lacks.
Go into a roomful of teenagers and look at their selfscarred arms, the
antidepressants that sedate them, the quiet desperation in their eyes.
They literally do not know what it is they are missing. What they
don't have is what post-punk provided... A way out... and a reason to
get out.... So is this a counsel of despair? Not at all. There are new
means for producing counterconsensual collectivity. Like this. The web
has a distributional reach, a global instaneity, whose unprecedented
scale is easy to take for granted. But its vast potential far
outstrips anything that fanzines or records could have achieved in the
70s. What needs to happen is a kind of 'existential reframing': to see
what happens here not as Kapital wants us to see it, as 'failed'
writers resentfully carving out some insignificant niche because they
can't 'make it' in the overlie interior. The logic of Kapital insists
that anything that is not reproducing it, or serving such a
reproduction, is a waste of time. But to frame what is happening would
be to radically reverse these idiotic priorities. And the continuing
relevance of post-punk is to remind us that such reversals are
possible, to provide the impetus for the development of a (punk) will
to retake the present....OK: so while I enjoy the old-style interflug
response and counterresponse thing, I think the discussion developing
between punk and Infinite Thought would be better conducted on
Dissensus. So my response to Infinite's latest post on monotheism can
be found here. Meanwhile: looking forward to the Blissblogga's evening
at the Boogaloo tonight (it goes without saying that I'm enormously
enjoying the book). Hope to see some of you there. Infinite Thought
responds to my call for a 'naturalistic religion'. This seems like a
classic case of something that should be 'taken to Dissensus', but for
now: 1. There are different senses of naturalism, but some of then CAN
be equated with materialism. The point of the Spinozist insistence on
Nature is to deny any space for theism by radically refusing any
possibility of the supernatural. Contra Plantinga's 'weaselism', I
would say that science does commit one to this kind of naturalism. But
to say that God is Nature is not to suggest that there is a
determining (i.e. Personal) entity which is Nature; that would be to
reintroduce transcendence. 2. Lacan's and Zizek's antinaturalism might
be better construed as an antinaturalization: i.e. surely they are
naturalistic in the sense that they refuse the supernatural, but at
the same time they want to deny that the particular semiotic regime
arising from a particular take on human physiology is 'natural' as in
(1) inevitable and (2) ethically and epistemologically 'correct'. But
the very point of Spinoza's naturalism (contra Aquinas'
supernaturalism) is that nothing is more natural than anything else.
In fact, it is only via Spinozistic naturalism that the word 'natural'
can be evacuated of any possible sense: natural as opposed to what? 3.
To be clear, then: the naturalism I call for is to be understood in
two ways (1) as a total refusal of the supernatural and (2) an
assertion of determinism. Again, though, it has to be made clear that
there is no Nature which causes anything: rather Nature is the network
of causes and effects that will have been the case. 4. Badiou's attack
on Spinoza. I may be misunderstanding this, but it seems to rest on a
conflation of two claims: 'there is only one substance' and 'substance
is One'. Spinozist monism differs from NeoPlatonist accounts of God by
refusing the second claim, which again would involve making a space
for transcendence. The claim that there is nothing outside or apart
from Nature doesn't entail any commitment to the view there is a
quality, 'oneness', which Nature possesses. On the contrary, in fact.
Subtracting transcendence and denying the supernatural is precisely a
subtraction of the 1 (n1): it leads to the zero of the body without
organs, not the One of the body with organ. 5. The claim that 'Thought
is radically disjunct from any naturalistic account thereof' is
susceptible to many interpretations (in part because of the
ambiguities in the meaning of 'naturalism', as gestured to above) but
I can't come up with one that isn't cryptoidealist. The overeating of
the importance of thought (as opposed to practice) in Badiou, the
flirtation with the idea that thought is somehow independent of any
material substrate (what IS his philosophy of mind any how?) seem to
me vices of Badiou's philosophy, not strengths. The attack on
Spinoza's 'closed ontology' stems from a similar weakness in my view,
but this time it is Badiou's voluntarism and cryptophenomeonology that
is the problem. What seems to be being refused here is Spinoza's
distinction between how things are 'under the aspect of eternity' and
how they appear in lived duration. radio is no friend of lived
duration, but it is only at this level, it seems to me, that there can
be anything that looks like 'breaks' or disjunctions. 6. The idea that
religion is always about meaning is questionbegging. Of course, I
would want to make an opposing claim: any refusal of monism is
effectively an advocacy of theism. The only way to destroy theism is
to reject all forms of transcendence, personalism, and dualism. Thus
Theism might always be about meaning, but what religion would look
like if monism were asserted AGAINST theism is an open question. To
Reading, then, with Infinite Thought, for a conference on 'The Meaning
of Theism'. (Reading: the very model of 'the typical provincial
British town', coredout, dessicated, an anonymous hosting surface for
the dull brightness of Capital's semiotic pollution, a nonplace
without even the memory of character.) According to Anthony Kenny, you
can tell whether a philosophy of religion specialist is a believer or
not by their neckwear. Believers wear ties whereas unbelievers go
tieless. The speakers at yesterday's conference conformed to type:
Kenny himself a notquite believer and self-professed 'agnostic' and
dull secularhumanist Richard Norman went without ties; committed
theists John Haldane and Alvin planting wore them. Haldane has an
insouciant persuasive manner, complete with alpha male body posture,
the authentic accent of modern British power (a gentle Scottish burr)
and a grimacesmile tic that makes me imagine him being effective as a
state torturer. He began his paper, 'Religion and the Restless Heart',
by enthusiastically heralding Ratzinger, which is hardly surprising:
if ever there were a Pope for Catholic intellectuals, it is Benedict
XVI who whatever else he might be is a theologian of fearsome
intelligence and learning. He ended his presentation by openly
affirming what he himself characterised as a non (if not quite anti)
democratic, elitist conception of divine illumination. Haldane was
clear that the 'meaning of theism' involves the commitment to a
personal god who freely chooses to create the world. The divine
attribute of being 'creator and sustainer of the univese' is, then,
contingent, unlike such other qualities such as 'omnipotence' and
'perfect goodness'. That is to say, for the theist it is unimaginable
that God not be omnipotent, perfectly good etc, but it is possible to
conceive God as not having created the world. From the side of the
created, however, the relationship is necessary, not contingent: our
existence depends upon the necessary being, God. Hence neoPlatonist
claims that the world emanates from God, that God's love necessarily
expresses itself in creation, that all beings are a modifications of a
single Being, cannon be right. The creation of the world is an act of
volition by a personal entity. Haldane then argued that philosophical
thought is periodically haunted by a 'return of the repressed'.
Certain styles of argument never go away, they lurk in some subdued
place before resuming their dominance. A repressed that is returning
now is the idea that philosophy should be about wisdom. Perhaps the
Stoics were the first to articulate this, in their opposition between
practice and discourse, their claim that philosophy should be about
'forming a demeanour' which is answerable to metaphysics. In modern
times, the call for an end to philosophy in activity was made most
forcefully by existentialism which, after years of neglect and quiet
derision, is now making its return. He argues that philosophy is
'completed' by religion; that philosophy is unfinished whilst it
remains only contemplative. This set up the main theme of Haldane's
paper: how does humanity's existential plight its restless yearning
and feeling of homelessness relate to religion? Is there some innate
impulse in human beings to believe in God? Haldane referred to two
arguments which claimed that there is in fact such an impulse:
Peirce's 'neglected argument' and C. S. Lewis's argument from desire.
Deliberately echoing the Kant of 'The Critique of Teleological
Judgement', Peirce reasons that: " there is a reason, an
interpretation, a logic in the course of scientific advance, and this
indisputably proves to him who has perceptions of rational or
significant relations, that man's mind must have been attuned to the
truth of things in order to discover what he has discovered. It is the
very bedrock of logical truth." In other words, "unless man has a
natural bent in accordance with nature's, he has no chance of
understanding nature at all." Our 'attunement' to nature evidenced
through "the discoveries of science, their enabling us to predict what
will be the course of nature, is proof conclusive that though we
cannon think any thought of God's, we can catch a fragment of his
Thought, as it were." Lewis, meanwhile, argued that people want, and
know they want, something they cannon find in the world. Since there
are satisfactions available for other, more banal, desires (the desire
for food, or sex, for instance), there must also be a possible relief
for this existential ache but not in this world. Hence human beings
must have been made for another world. Now, as Haldane readily
conceded, it is clear that not every desire has an objective
correlate: for example, the human desire to fly must remain, for the
moment at least, unsatisfied. Thus Lewis is forced to argue that the
desire for existential completion is in some sense a 'natural' rather
than an 'artificial' desire, that it is innate rather than acquired,
spontaneouslyoccurring rather than cultivated, noneliminable rather
than eliminable. (The assumption that desire implies a possible
satisfaction will raise the hackles of anyone keyed into
pyschoanalysis, which, of course, insists that desire entails the
impossibility of any satisfaction. In On Belief, cizek in effect
counters Lewis's argument (and Haldane's representation of it) with
his invocation of the existential Heidegger. cizek is concerned to
refute 'the notion that there is a home, a "natural" place for man:
either this world of the "noosphere" from which we fell into this
world and for which our souls long, or Earth itself. Heidegger points
the way out of this predicament: what if we effectively are "thrown"
into this world, never fully at home in it, always dislocated, "out of
joint," and what if this dislocation is our constitutive, primordial
condition, the very horizon of our being? What if there is no previous
"home" out of which we were thrown into the world, what if this very
dislocation ground man's ecstatic opening to the world?' (9) )
Satisfied that he had established that arguments like Peirce's and
Lewis's offer intimations of 'our transcendent source and destiny',
Haldane (re)turned to Aquinas to answer the question: is there an
innate desire in human beings for the beatific vision? Haldane noted
that this is a source of dispute within Thomism, but ultimately took
the view that, while there is a desire for knowledge common to all
human beings, there is no universal desire for God. The desire for
knowledge must be taken through the 'traditional' arguments for the
existence of God the ontological, cosmological and teleological
'proofs'. Once it is established that God is, there is then a yearning
to know what God is. Divine illumination is available to all, but some
'intellects' will be 'bettertrained', more able to 'see' and
appreciate the Divine nature. Thus Haldane wanted to contain desire
within knowledge. This, and his talk of 'completion', will inevitably
put the Lacanian in mind of Seminar XX and Lacan's bid to 'interpret
one face of the Other, the God face, as based on feminine jouissance'.
But such jouissance 'a jouissance that is hers, that belongs to that
"she" that doesn't exist and doesn't signify anything' is famously
opposed to knowledge ('woman knows nothing of this jouissance'). If
God is not all, but the total (uttunul), then God cannon be known, not
merely contingently (it is not that there is a God that can be known,
but beings such as us are not capable of attaining such knowledge) but
necessarily (God is that which lies beyond 'knowledge', not only
beyond knowability). As ever, we can rely upon cizek for a succinct
and lucid account of this knotted logic: 'even when it is "all",
complete with no exception, the field of knowledge remains, in a way,
nonall, incomplete love is not an exception to an All of knowledge,
but precisely that "nothing" which makes incomplete even the complete
series/ field of knowledge. In other words, the point of the claim
that, even if I were to possess all knowledge, without love, I would
be nothing, is not simply that with love I am "something" in love, I
am also nothing but, as it were, a Nothing humbly aware of itself, a
Nothing paradoxically made rich through the very awareness of its
lack. Only a lacking, vulnerable being is capable of love: the
ultimate mystery of love, therefore, is that incompleteness is in a
way higher than completion. On the other hand, only an imperfect,
lacking being loves: we love because we do not know all. On the other
hand, even if we were to know everything, love would, inexplicably,
still be higher than completed knowledge.' (The Puppet and the Dwarf,
115) The 'agnosticism' advocated in Anthony Kenny's paper was in some
respects similar to LacanZizek's nontheism. But ultimately his God is
simply unknown, whereas theirs is beyond knowledge. When Kenny speaks,
you think of long, balmy evenings drinking red wine on the lawn in
Oxford. Kenny, a former Catholic priest turned antithesis if not
atheist, argued that God is inconceivable. Although he was at pains to
distinguish inconceivably from inconsistency (God is inconceivable
without being logically inconsistent), it was not always clear what
Kenny, in a reversal of the ontological argument, was saying was that
cannon be conceived: 'God', the concept, or God, the actually existent
but unknowable entity. Kenny wanted to say the former, but, implicitly
if not explicity, didn't do so consistently. For instance, he claimed
that God has no behaviour like the behaviour of human beings or their
creations. But if God were a genuinely inconceivable concept, then
surely even that is saying too much. The nub of Kenny's argument was
his claim that it is impossible to speak literally about God because
God does not belong to a language game. Any sentence in which 'God'
appears has an irreducibly metaphorical content. Thus Kenny's position
on religious language is literally equivocal: it is impossible to
speak univocal about God, but it is not only that any language about
God is analogical it is also that the concept of God itself is
analogical too. Kenny called upon two scholastic sources in support of
that position: John Scotus Eriugena and Nicolas of Cusa. Eriugena
argued that God does not belong to any of Aristotle's categories, so
that not only the ascription of anthropomorphic predicates but even
the ascription of more abstract predicates such as 'just' and 'good'
was metaphorical. Affirmative theology theology which claims that God
can be described is not the opposite of negative theology, since even
negative theology says too much. God is more than God. In a kind of
preach of Kant and Wittgenstein, Nicolas of Cusa argued that wisdom
consists in an awareness of the limits of one's knowledge. God lies
beyond possible knowledge, erasable only as a paradoxical 'coincidence
of opposites'. God might, as Anselm said, be the greatest conceivable
being, but he is also that which nothing lesser can be conceived. God
no more is than is not. So Cusa calls for a sacred, rather than a
brute, ignorance. Kenny concluded with a reference to two more recent
figures: the Dominican priest Herbert McCabe and the
believerturnedagnostic poet A. H. Clough. Kenny focused on McCabe's
argument on prayer. Since it is obvious that God cannon answer all
prayers (because good people want incompatible things), the honest
believer must accept that petitioner prayer is a waste of time. But it
is precisely as a waste of time that prayer should be valued. The time
we most value, McCabe argued, i.e. time spent with a loved one 'doing
nothing', is after all, wasted time. Kenny made McCabe's position here
sound remarkably Bataillielike: better even than play, prayer removes
the believer from the production and creationfixated business of the
profane world. (Weberian Protestants in this respect at least,
Infinite Thought and I were unconvinced by this call to indolence and
disengagement.) In the end, Kenny's position, with its preoccupation
with the limits of knowledge and its attempt to come to terms with the
'disenchantment of the world' seemed very twentieth century. Richard
Norman's 'The Varieties of non-religious Experience' is best glossed
over quickly. Suffice it to say, the dreary lameness of Norman's
secular humanism was the best advert for theism all day. His argument
that there are atheist substitutes for of all of the experiences that
might be thought of as uniquely religious and therefore that the
secular humanist is missing nothing was the theological equivalent of
a vegetarian sausage. Surely humanism can do better than offer a
pathetic, tastefree version of the numinous? Alvin Plantinga, however,
provided all the entertainment his work a bizarre mixture of
Reformation theology and analytic philosophy, like commonsense warped
through a Philip K Dick scanner darkly promised. planting looks like
an amiss elder and has a rounded, stentorian speaking voice
reminiscent of the Simpsons' Principal Skinner. His stock-in-trade is
a kind of theophilosophical science fiction, in which the absurd
thought experiments of analytic philosophy are used to bolster theism
at its most preposterous. Plantinga's MO is basically defensive: he
aims to show that the ideas that God is logically contradictory or has
been disproved by science are wrongheaded. Hence his claim that it is
legitimate to treat belief in God is a 'basic belief', a foundational
belief that requires no further evidence, like our beliefs that other
people have minds or that the world did not come into existence five
minutes ago. You see, says Alvin, you can't prove those beliefs are
true either, but noone says that they are irrational. And belief in
God is just like that unprovable but rational. See also his solution
to the problem of evil, the idea that the existence of an omnipotent
and perfectly good being is incompatible with the presence of evil in
the world. Well, planting argues, God cannon create a world free of
evil because of 'transworld depravity'. This gloriously SF concept is
coined to show that, there will be wickedness in any world which God
chooses to actualize where human beings are free, because all humans
suffer from some degree of 'transworld depravity'. Plantinga's concern
yesterday was to establish that, contra certain 'misapprehensions',
science has not proved that God cannon act in the world. Science, in
other words, does not entail naturalism the view that God, or any
being like God, cannon exist. The standard disenchanted view (as put
by Bultmann, macquarie and others) has been that it is impossible for
God to intervene in the world because such action would violate the
principle of the 'conservation of energy'(i.e. there is only a finite
amount of energy in the universe and this cannon be added to, merely
transformed). planting demonstrated that this objection is
questionbegging, since it assumes what it needs to establish, namely
that the universe is a closed or isolated system. (The principle of
the conservation of energy only applies to systems that are closed).
If there is no problem with 'special divine action in the world' on
the old (classical) model of physics, there is, planting argued, even
less of an issue with the new (quantum) paradigm. Quantum theory
maintains that the universe is probabilistic rather than deterministic
miraculous events like walking on water are not impossible, just very
improbable ('but we already know that,' planting wryly noted). In his
claim that God could be the cause of quantum 'collapses', planting
sounded oddly similar to the physicist in John Carpenter's Prince of
Darkness who urges us to 'say goodbye to classical reality'. Needless
to say, the timebending and dream invasions in Carpenter's film herald
the coming of the antichrist, not the messiah, but the point of Prince
of Darkness's antimiracles was the same as Plantinga's miracles: the
traditional naturalistic account of the universe is not adequate.
There is a wonderful scene in Prince of Darkness which planting who
insisted, contra Kenny, that his language about God was very literal
would no doubt appreciate. In it, Donald Pleasance's priest confesses
that the Catholic Church had been selling a lie, the comforting
thought that evil is 'within us'. In fact, as the brotherhood to which
Pleasance's benighted priest belongs knows, evil is a real force,
independent of human beings and capable of warping what we take to be
physical reality. planting certainly successfully routed those who
assume that science means that divine intervention could not happen.
But the challenge to the interventionist model has two, much stronger
aspects which planting did not address. The argument against miracles
from Hume concerned empirical evidence there could never be enough not
logical incompatibility. The issue is: what empirical evidence is
there for the metaphysical theory of substance dualism and the related
claim that there is a supernatural realm beyond the natural world? The
invocation of quantum physics actually works against planting here,
since it suggests that, even if there are wildly improbable anomalies,
these can be accounted for by entirely physical means. The hypothesis
of a supernatural agent is more superfluous than ever. Quantum physics
sophisticates and revises naturalism; it is not an alibi
supernaturalism can use to creep back in. The second problem is the
one hinted at by Kenny but stated most powerfully by Spinoza.
Logically, the idea of a personal, transcendent entity that performs
miracles makes no sense. Ultimately, it was clear from yesterday's
papers that theism and its discontents remain in a kind of twentieth-
century gentlemanly standoff. Literal belief in the the personal,
interventionist God who listens and acts is countered by a
disenchanted assertion of secularism or by a faith that has disavowed
literal belief. Within Spinoza, Lacan, cizek and radio lie the
philosophical resources from which a modern naturalistic religion that
offers a way out of this impasse could be built. Such a religion would
achieve wisdom in the sense that Haldane called for, since it would be
metaphysically rigorous AND existentially committed. Time for
moNONtheism.... Better to be up against White Guards than Mensheviks.
With White Guards, it is at least conceded that there is a war, now,
and that there is no avoiding taking sides. On Menshevik clocks, the
time is always 'not yet'. Postmodernism has translated mensheviks its
vacillations and 'critique' into a generalized condition and
pseudoethical injunction. 'Who are WE to judge? 'How do we KNOW...?'
It is this that accounts for Zizek's wellknown ambivalence about John
Paul II: at least Wojtyla resisted secular liberalism's compulsory
relativism. In this light, it has been fascinating to observe the
liberal press's dismay about the election of Joseph Ratzinger as the
new Pope. The fiery sermon Ratzinger delivered on Monday the last act
in his unofficial campaign for the papacy was a fierce denunciation of
what he called, delightfully, 'the dictatorship of relativism'. Now
that the period of mediapiety is over, hacks have allowed themselves
to raise a few eyebrows about Ratzinger's (in)famous intransigence on
abortion, contraception, homosexuality and women. Needless to say, the
new Pope's views are not in any substantive way different from those
that 'shining moral example', his predecessor, but, waking up from
their radiographic stupefaction, the hacks now find themselves
(surprise, surprise) at odds with those values. Worse even than the
values themselves, it seems, is their aggressive certainty with which
they have been assserted. And so last week's apparent concordat
between media and church has, predictably, fallen apart with indecent
haste. The (con)temporary media need for a secular saint someone who
can be 'admired' without being believed or heeded has run aground upon
Ratzinger's defiant antipopulism. Today, the Independent, not sure
whether to admire or dominate the stance, reported that Ratzinger
would 'rather be right than be popular'. The liberal media's
assumption has been that last Pope's 'reactionary' stance on sexual
ethics was 'outdated' and would 'give way' to a more 'progressive'
agenda, as if it is somehow only right and proper that the church
should fall into line with contemporary 'morality'. Ratzinger has
absolutely refused to entertain this agenda: the church's 'ought'
should not be compromised by the world's 'is'. Ratzinger, then, has
done us this service at least: he has smoked out liberalism. (Of
course, Ratzinger's denunciations of abortion, contraception and
homosexuality in line with longstanding Catholic doctrine, he does not
condemn the 'inclination', merely the acting upon it have little basis
in the Bible, and are noxious authoritarian supersititions, but
Ratzinger is well aware that the liberal calls for church reform are
effectively calls for the church to abolish itself. Catholicism
without authoritarianism would be ... Protestantism.) It is clear that
liberalism does not only reject Ratzinger's brand of nonwords values;
it rejects the very concept of values that are non-consensual or
extraworldly. That is because it holds it as axiomatic that (1) all
values are negotiable because (2) the 'word', in all its flux and
impermanence, must be the ultimate arbiter of what is right. By this
means, postmodern liberalism attempts to deny the legitimacy, indeed
possibility, of any values at odds with the worldly. In challenging
this orthodoxy, Ratzinger's dogmatism amps up the antagonism that
postmodern liberalism smothers under its passiveaggressive cloak.
Could this presage a war between those who continue to insist that the
worldly 'is' must be judged by the standards of an offworlder 'ought'?
Obviously I'm delighted that David Tennant is to take over from
Eccleston as the new Doctor Who. eccleston is all very well, but he's
too much of a man's man for me, and I still can't see what kids would
do to 'be' him, besides imitating a Manchester accent. I'd like to see
Tenant playing the Doctor very much in the style that he played
Casanova, and in similar clothes....Then we would have... the NEW
ROMANTIC doctor.... The current repressing of the Doctor's dandyism is
just way too Glum (as in antiGlam). The fact that, as I've said
before, they haven't got the wardrobe right since Baker doesn't mean
that they should give up and concede everything to bookish
functionality. In many ways, I see Eccleston's role as a kind of
clearing of the palate. His neutrality, his lack of much definable
'taste', is a way of sharpening our appreciation of the integral
qualities of the Doctor that palled through PoMofication during the
Eighties. (I'm more than ever conscious of the need for a reclaiming
of male fashion after spending last night in a bar thick with moody
short-haired men in sportswear...) As for 'Aliens of London' last
night.... The two contemporaryset adventures have seemed less sure-
footed than the other two we've seen so far (which were set offworlder
and in the past). The show's soft focus Olympic bid corporate video
London looks shop-bought and over-familiar (it seemed horribly
consistent with the soft focus London evoked in the Tory election
broadcast shown earlier in the evening, for instance). But cheers from
our house for: the mention of UNIT 'code 9' and 'I don't do family...'
'Suppose you're a second-rate ham actor like Tony Blair, touring the
country with a new show called "I Think We're A Clone Now". In it, you
produce a wooden ventriloquist's dummy, carved to look a little bit
like you. It wears the same banal suit with the same red silk tie, has
a demonic grin carved into its face, empty staring blue eyes, with one
slightly larger than the other.' Somehow, don't ask me how, Lenin's
Tomb has slipped under my radar until now. But it won't surprise
anyone to hear me loudly seconding this: 'I confess. I give myself up
to you and the secular authorities. I am a fanatic, a freak, a wild-
eyed messianist, one of Thomas Carlyle's Apostles of Liberty, a
worshipper at the Temple of Bronstein, wrapping my own bible marked
'Manifesto', worshipping my pantheon of saints and vilifying the
devils who tempt the people with 'reform' this and 'tax break' that.
The only deal I will accept is total salvation. Precisely, it is the
form of religion, not the various mythos, that should be appropriated
by the rationalist left. Revolutionary messianism, fanaticism, is the
only way to disrupt one's embodiment in a system whose hegemony is so
thoroughly entrenched. The total identification with a greater
collective like class is the only way to break with the narcissism
that capitalism as both consumption and production engenders.' Yes,
yes, yes.... As I've remarked before, most of the great rationalist
philosophers Descartes, Leibniz, Spinoza, Kant were religious. It's no
surprise, therefore, that Zizek, Zupancic, cope Negri and radio have
returned to rationalist sources to produce a countercapitalist ethics.
Rationalist religion forces a disconnection from the commonsense world
of pathological interestedness; contemporary 'realism', by contrast,
takes it as read that this is all there is. Religion provides a
horizon beyond that of the oedIpod, and, at its most powerful, in
Spinoza's monontheism, it can elaborate the seeming paradox that
pursuing your own interests CAN ONLY be achieved by suspending your
animal pathologies. Even in mainstream capitalist parliamentarianism,
the question of whether ethics could ever be founded upon the pursuit
of personal interests was once the source of ideological disputation.
Now it's all about administration and ideological conflict has
effectively been extirpate from capitalist parliamentarian 'debate'
(to make ideology itself function all the better, of course), the once
shocking notion that pursuing one's own interests is ethical, indeed
is the only way to behave ethically, has now been normalised. (A
telling element of guilt is perhaps evident in the now customary
appeal to 'you AND your family', as if pursuing the interests of 'your
family' was somehow more noble, or indeed different from, pursuing
your own interests.) The assumption is the familiar Adam Smith fairy
story that all will benefit if everyone pursues their own interests.
Once, the smithson idea that good would spontaneously emerge as an
ephiphenomal side-effect of an aggregation of individual
interestedness, used to be opposed to the concept of a collective
Good, but that possibility has disappeared or been disappeared from
popular political ontology. Now, in fact, it is considered wrong not
to pursue your own interests. In political struggles at work, for
instance, my 'sin' seems to consist in my neglecting to protect my own
interests (defined of course in purely economiccareerist terms)
adequately. Cynical subordination to central government stupidity and
to managerialist viciousness can be defended on no other grounds
except personal pragmatism, of course. The familiar Zizekian
ideological capture kicks in: 'Don't believe in it (education reduced
to a propaganda tool in Blair's reelection strategy, Stalinist quotas
for educational achievement, etc etc), just do it.' That's why what I
have called innocynicism is the alternative to rationalist enthusiasm
(perhaps 'enthusiasm' is a better term than 'fanaticism', for all
sorts of reasons). It's never a case of religion versus secularism,
but religion versus hidden religious commitments. Always ask: who is
their god? For secularists it's usually the big Other or Oedipus, or
both. This post, also on Lenin's Tomb in which TB is brilliantly and
briskly rushed through Baudrillard's three orders of simulacra is one
of the best analyses of innocynicism I've seen. The glorious Private
Eye television review direction of the Pope death referred to by I.T.
rightly draws attention to the media's suspension of the habitual
hypersceptical mode they employ when faced with even the most modest
of claims by politicians in favour of supine, slackjawed piety when
confronted with the ludicrous superstitious lather of the Papists. But
Blair seems to embody both these stances always, and at one and the
same time. Total cynicism, total pietism. The second service Blair has
done us is to expose the identity of these two positions. The first,
naturally, was to completely and definitively undermine any residual
faith in capitalist parliamentarianism. Well, I'm still enough of a
neophyte to be thrilled by a mention in Village Voice. I suppose it is
ironic that greta describes punk as 'cultural studies', given my
notorious antipathy to cult studs. On the other hand, though, punk is
cultural studies as I'd always thought it should be practised (much of
my hostility to cult studs stems from a disappointment when faced with
the depressing, guiltmongering reality of cultural studies in the
academy). Any way, here is the full text that I sent to Geeta: 1. Why
I started the blog? Because it seemed like a space the only space in
which to maintain a kind of discourse that had started in the music
press and the art schools, but which had all but died out, with what I
think are appalling cultural and political consequences . My interest
in theory was almost entirely inspired by writers like Ian Penman and
Simon, so there has always been an intense connection between theory
and pop/ film for me. No sob stories, but for someone from my
background it's difficult to see where else that interest would have
come from. 2. Because of that, my relation to the academy has always
been uh difficult. The way in which I understood theory primarily
through popular culture is generally detested in universities. Most
dealings with the academy have been literally clinically depressing.
3. The cru as an entity was developed in hostile conditions as a kind
of conduit for continuing trade between popular culture and theory.
The whole pulp theory/ theoryfiction thing was/ is a way of doing
theory through, not 'on', pop cultural forms. Nick Land was the key
figure here, in that it was he who was able to hold, for a while, a
position 'within' a university philosophy department whilst dedicated
opening up connections to the outside. kodak shun is key as someone
making connections the other way from popular culture INTO abstruse
theory. But what we all concurred upon was that something like jungle
was already intensely theoretical; it didn't require academics to
judge it or pontificate upon it the role of a theorist was as an
intensifier. 3. The term punk came out of Ccru. 'k' was used as a
libidinal preferable substitution for the California/ Wired captured
'cyber' (the word cybernetics having its origins in the Greek, Kuber).
cru understood cyberpunk not as a (once trendy) literary genre, but as
a distributive cultural tendency facilitated by new technologies. In
the same way, 'punk' doesn't designate a particular musical genre, but
a confluence outside legitimate(d) space: fanzines were more
significant than the music in that they allowed and produced a whole
other mode of contagious activity which destroyed the need for
centralized control. 4. The development of cheap and readily available
sound production software, the web, blows means there is an
unprecedented punk infrastructure available. All that is lacking is
the will, the belief that what can happen in something that does not
have authorisation/ legitimation can be as important more important
than what comes through official channels. 5. In terms of will, there
has been an enormous retrenchment since 1970s punk. The availability
of the means of production has seemed to go alongside a compensatory
reassertion of Spectacular power. 6. To return to the academy:
universities have either totally excluded or at least marginalized not
only anyone connected with cru but also many who were at Warwick.
Steve 'Hyperdub' Goodman and luciano paris are both cru agents who
have managed, against the odds, to secure a position within
universities. But most of us have been forced into positions outside
the university. Perhaps as a result of not being incorporated ('bought
off'), many in the Warwick rhizome have maintained an intense
connection and robust independence. Much of the current theoretical
drift on punk has been developed via a collaboration with Nina Power,
Alberto volcano and Ray brasier (coorganizer of the NoiseTheoryNoise
conference at Middlesex University last year). The growing popularity
of philosophers like cizek and radio means there is now an unexpected
if rogue and fugitive line of support within the academy. 7. I teach
Philosophy, Religious Studies and Critical Thinking at Orpington
College. It is a Further Education college, which means that its
primary intake is 1619 year olds. This is difficult and challenging
work, but the students are in the main excellent, and far more willing
to enter into discussion than undergraduates. So I don't at all regard
this position as secondary or lesser than a 'proper' academic post.
londonunderlondon, very kindly described by Autonomicforthepeople as '
like a beautiful dark dream. Abandoned underground tunnels,
troglodytes, fleeting drum churning , shy animals, ethereal grime...'
was broadcast on April th on Resonance FM. The mp is now available
from the Resonance webster but due to my loft radiohostile mix much of
the detail got lost when it was broadcast, so I'd recommend anyone who
wants to hear it to get the original waves from me. I'm gradually
posting out CDs to the dispenses ru who requested em; any punk readers
who would like a copy should mail me and it will be provided.
londonunderlondon, ruffmixed as it is, needs to be seen as a work in
progress. Naturally, it isn't anything like equal to its inspirations
which number anything from Glenn Gould's The Idea of North, Chris
Marker, Eno, David too but what became clear to us as we produced it
was how little punk will there is. The cyberpunk infrastructure is
already there. Something like Cool Edit an excellent programme btw
reduces sound composition to the core cyberpunk function of cut and
paste. Yet the main use to which is put is to produce 'music' (or,
worse, insufferable 'sound art') what about all those intervenes
between music, fiction, drama, documentary, a DJ set? What is lacking
is the will to explore such terrains. cuka suggests that we should
reveal all the sound sources etc. I'm willing to do that in the end,
but I'd like a few more people to hear it first. To provide a list of
all the samples at the moment would be like presenting diners with a
list of ingredients before they've eaten the meal. In the meantime, I
present below the text I produced for the section we came to call
Necropolis Now: 'Vampires may start out in Rumania or Egypt, but they
always end up in London. Marx saw that, as, in the garlic setting of
the British Library, he laboured tirelessly on his interminable
steampunk survey of the body of SF Kapital. 'Capital is dead labor,
which, vampirelike, lives only by sucking living labor, and lives the
more, the more labor it sucks'. The task Marx sets himself is no less
than to diagnose and cure a planetary geotrauma that began in London
five hundred years ago. Apocalypse is always now, and Marx is trying
to cut his way out of the present. If he can't break the time lines,
the future will be nothing but more of the same. The endless end,
global subordination to Kapital's idiot cyberTelos. 'Time is
everything, man is nothing: he is at the most time's carcass.' Marx
writes from the very epicentre of the ongoing catastrophe, the site
where the Kapital Artificial IntelligenceParasite, made up 'of
numerous mechanical and intellectual organs', first crash landed on
earth. Since then, using the factoryfarmed population of the city to
provide the 'mere conscious linkages' it lacks, Kapital has itself
become the solution to the perennial problem all Gothic entities face:
how does what has never been alive reproduce? It uses your eyes and
ears, your fingers, your brain.... 'By virtue of it being value,
[Kapital] has acquired the occult ability to add value to itself. It
brings forth living offspring, or, at the least, lays golden eggs'.
Approach from West India Quay and see what corpses have sprouted on
the Isle of the Dead.... Barclays  HSBC  Bank of America  Citigroup
Kapital mausoleums, freezerwhite canyons of Finance ICE, pointing like
rigor mortis fingers into the greyish purple of the lightpolluted
helicopter sky. Necropolitical takeover of the docks, both
functionally and spatially. No need for ships to provide global
communications now. (I had not thought that death had undone so many).
Virtual Ground Zero. If they struck surely it would be here .. Here,
where everything is already dead In Cabot Square, descend through the
mock deco hallways into the migraine hyperbright wonderland of the
retail arcades. The eternal noon of the living dead. And Saturday
night in the City is always dead. The high rise reptiles have slunk
back to their lairs. Finance vampires hunt by day. And I too have been
one of the dead. Duplicates have used my name while the alien parasite
entity squats behind my eyes. (Marks of weakness, Marks of woe.) Down
into the tube, hanging like a slab of Bacon in the zombie meat trucks.
(A crowd flowed over London Bridge...) The underground is the stalking
zone of shambling automata. You know this in your dreams, and in what
London dreams, in the fictions it breeds. That is why the London flood
barrier against the Real has had a spectacular record of failure. They
were looking in the wrong places. The incursion has already happened,
many times. Fictions about invasion are already invasions. As he
completes Moses and Monotheism in exile in Hampstead, Freud can see
what Nigel Kneale can later see: What you inherit from your parents is
death.You come to be in a fortifying structure that precedes you. You
only have a lifetime to escape. In the London Underground, Quatermass
unearths parasites far more ancient than any Marx described. Kneale
poses the same question as Wells, but differently:Will earth become
the second dead planet of the martians? For Wells, the Martians that
invade London from Surreyside are extraterrestrial pirates giving the
British imperium a taste of its own medicine. But Professor Quatermass
the metapsychologist can see that there was no human life that
preceded the arrival of the myrmidons of death. The discovery he makes
in Hobbs End is archaeopyschic horror: human beings were only ever the
carrierbodies for the alien death drive. There is no inside, and
everything in your dream home is already owned by the parasites. That
is why it isn't only traumatic fixation that compels Londoners to keep
dreaming of invasion. Something else getting in would also be
something in you getting out. Destruction of the World is also flight
from the strata, from the catacombs of home, tomb of the cybermen...
The TV orphans whose electronic spines tingled to Delia Derbyshire's
Dr Who theme knew this as soon as they heard it in 1963. The uncanny
is always the untimely. Delia Derbyshire is no more bound to her own
time than Marx or Quatermass were denizen of theirs. On the contrary,
cutting up present time in the Radiophonic Workshop's lab in Maida
Vale, she is a nomad of the time streams. 'She used concrete sources
and sine and squarewave oscillators, tuning the results, filtering and
treating, cutting so that the joins were seamless, combining sound on
individual tape recorders, recording the results, and repeating the
process, over and over again. Television was the homely vortex around
which the i960 British domestic scene was organized, the chinese box
display unit opening out the socalled interior onto the media
landscape. The wired kids who watched, entranced, had consumed the
Cuban Missile Crisis and the Bay of Pigs with their breastmilk. They
know that terror is the name for the new, and they hear in
Derbyshire's sonic construction broadcast for the first time the day
after Kennedy's exploding head had inaugurated the sixties' atrocity
exhibition a presentiment of the decade's megaviolence. But they hear
something else in the Radiophonic Workshop's Audio Uncanny, which,
never centre-stage in the rock Spectacle, nevertheless quickly becomes
unobtrusively ubiquitious. An alternative Now builds itself out of
radio station dents and incidental music. Ear worms breed the hunger
for a space in which they can propagate, out beyond the pleasure
principle, on the stroking plateaus of the dancefloor....' Well, I
must say that the second and third adventures have been quite
delightful. If 'Rose' had all the features of a Dr Who episode I
should have loved, 'The End of the World' had all the Fantasy
trappings I instinctively dislike spaceships, bluecoloured aliens etc
but Russell T Davies' script was so witty and thoughtful that any
misgivings were swept away from the first minute. Davies showed once
again that it is possible to send up SF conventions without ending up
in polo irony: steering rather than squeezing you might say. The
template for 'The End of the World' was clearly 1972's 'Curse of
Peladon', in which Pertwee encountered a menagerie of aliens convening
on a medieval planet for an interspecies conference. The allusion in
1972 was to the UK entry into the EEC; Davies' target in 2005 was
consumerism, celebrity and cosmetic surgery. Bat mailed me with some
fascinating analysis: 'the plot basically involves the world ending,
with the "great and the good" ie filthy rich looking on [yes, it was
like Nova Express crossed with The Society of the Spectacle m kp]. The
future society is depicted as thoroughly hierarchical and deferential,
and the murder mystery plot revolves around shares and money. Which of
course perfectly fits Zizek's pronouncement a couple of years ago that
we find it easier to imagine the world ending than a change in the
political system: "In the last thirty years, we are again accepting
the notion of history as fate. Thirty or forty years ago, there were
still debates about what the future will be Communism, socialism,
fascism, liberal capitalism, totalitarian bureaucratic capitalism. The
idea was that life would somehow go on on earth, but that there are
different possibilities." "Now we talk all the time about the end of
the world, but it is much easier for us to imagine the end of the
world than a small change in the political system. Life on earth maybe
will end, but somehow capitalism will go on."' Actually, I was
reminded of Zizek's insistent refrain that, for a true philosopher,
everything has already happened. Rose (Billie Piper quite superb
again) in effect attains that philosophical wisdom during the episode.
Davies managed to make the scene in which she talked to her mum across
time with a mobile phone hastily 'jiggerypokered' by the Doctor by
turns funny, sad and genuinely philosophical. Rose in effect flips
from immersion in 'lived duration' to the perspective of Eternity,
which is to say, she attains a detachment from any particular
pathological 'horizon'. She sees that not only her own organism, but
her species and planet are ephemeral. All of which put me in mind of
Lyotard's essay in The Inhuman 'Can Thought Go on without a Body?' and
Ray's brilliant radicalization of it in his 'Solar Catastrophism'. As
Ray writes: 'Lyotards question, can thought go on without a body? ...
[raises one that is] more fundamental, although it only warrants a
passing mention by Lyotard. This other question is: can thought go on
without a horizon? The use of the word horizon here is intended to
bear a quasitranscendental charge. For European philosophy up to and
including NietzscheI say including because I fear Nietzsche ultimately
remains a Christian thinkerthe name for the horizon was God. Then, in
the wake of the collapse of this first horizon, for a central strain
in European philosophy since Nietzsche, whose most significant
representatives include figures as diverse as Husserl, Heidegger and
Deleuze, the name for the horizon becomes Earth. My aim here is to
show that this horizon too needs to be wiped away. Thus, the link
between Lyotards question, can thought go on without a body?, and my
question can thought go on without a horizon?, is provided by an
intermediary question: what happens to thought when the earth dies?.
Significantly, this is the question with which Lyotards essay begins.
Roughly 4.5 billion years from now, Lyotard reminds us, the sun will
explode, destroying the earth and all earthly life. Thoughts
terrestrial horizon will be wiped away. This is the solar catastrophe,
in the original Greek sense of the word as a misturning or overturning
(katastrophe). The death of the sun is a catastrophe because it
overturns the terrestrial horizon relative to which philosophical
thought orient itself. Or as Lyotard himself puts it: [E]verythings
dead already if this infinite reserve from which [philosophy] now
draws energy to defer answers, if in short thought as quest, dies out
with the sun. Everything is dead already. The catastrophe has already
happened. Solar death is catastrophic because it vitiated
philosophical temporality, thoughts constitutive horizontal relation
to the future. Far from lying in wait in for us in the far distant
future, on the other side of the terrestrial horizon, the solar
catastrophe needs to be grasped as the aboriginal trauma driving the
history of terrestrial life and terrestrial philosophy as an
elaborately circuitous detour from stellar death. Terrestrial history
occurs between the simultaneous strophes of a death which is at once
earlier than the birth of the first unicellular organism and later
than the extinction of the last multicellular animal. Paraphrasing a
remark Freud makes in Beyond the Pleasure Principle, we could say
this: In the last resort, what has left its mark on the development of
[philosophy] must be the history of the earth we live in and of its
relation to the sun. This mark, this trace imprinted upon thought by
its relation to the sun, is the trace of the solar catastrophe, which
both precedes and follows, initiates and terminates, the possibility
of philosophisable death.' The 'excarnate thought' Ray posits at the
end of the essay is as far from the 'lived body' hummed by
contemporary theory (the word 'body' almost invariably means
'organism' in such cult studs of course). The philosophical import of
the episode's revelation was literally unhomely, in that, although the
Doctor asks Rose if she would like to go home, it is clear that there
is no home for to go to, and never was. For Rose, indeed, Everything
is dead already. When she and the Doctor return to earth, the bathetic
note struck when they seek out a bag of chips does not dispel the
uncanniness of the scene, in fact it underscores it: the people, the
business, the crowds now look like ghosts of themselves, which of
course they are. 'You only have a lifetime to escape', as I put it in
londonunderlondon. The Eccleston Doctor's bipolar lurching from impish
playfulness to sullen melancholy was given a motivation that added to
the thematic richness of this particular adventure, whilst setting up
an intriguing story arc. The hints about a Galifreyan genocide ('There
was a war. We lost') gave the Nietzschean theme of the Last Man
another dimension. Both the Doctor and Rose have seen their worlds
destroyed, both have experienced themselves as the 'last' of their
people. And the challenge they both face the Doctor dealing with it by
such a passion for activity that he does not have time to be sucked
into depressive pathos is the one Nietzsche understood very well: to
face the radical contingency/ ephemerality of all 'horizons' and yet
remain committed, engaged. If, as Ray rightly argues, Nietzsche
ultimately fails in this, it is nevertheless the very basis of
Spinoza's Ethics. The Doctor's line 'everything dies', and his
allowing of the Dorian grayling Cassandra to disintegrate, like Poe's
Waldemar, into long overdue death couldn't have been more timely, what
with the Terri chiaro nonsense... (All this and whitney Spears too!
(Though there is a possibility of a continuity error in the implied
reference to a 'Toxic' 7" single release.) Tonight's episode, 'The
Unquiet Dead', written by League of Gentlemen's Whoenthusiast Mark
Gatiss, was a return to the classic Gothic mode perfected during
Philip Hinchcliffe's tenure on the programme in the late 70s. The
story it most resembled though was one aired just after Hinchcliffe
had left, Horror of Fang Rock the same powerful use of a confined
space (a Victorian morgue in 'The Unquiet Dead'; a lighthouse in 'Fang
Rock'), the same Sapphire and Steellike revelation that the apparently
supernatural is in fact alien. It was not so much steampunk as
gaspunk, the literally ethereal aliens taking advantage of the
Victorians' method of lighting. gains made excellent use of the period
mummery, all the accoutrements of seances and mediums, and Simon
Callow was suitably histrionic as the defeated and depressed older
Dickens, reduced to performing the same old dramatic turns over and
over again before being shaken out of his empiricist scepticism by an
encounter with 'The Blue Elementals'. Fabulous. (Btw I liked the
description of Eccleston's Doctor as the Autistic Doctor on David
Golding's Weblog, that seems to fit). ... a litany of the now actually
dead Dead Father's crimes here (thanks to Simon who mentioned this in
passing on Dissensus). I love that line from Graham Greene: 'John Paul
to canonised Jesus Christ.' Heh heh... .... and one observation
prompted by seeing all those morons filing past the reactionary old
man's corpse.... Show footage of something similar happening in North
Korea or another communist regime and it is evidence that people have
been 'brainwashed'; in the 'free' west, of course, exactly the same
behaviour is evidence of an 'overwhleming tide of feeling'. In one of
many Chris Morris moments, a Sky hack said that the idiots in the
queue were extremely hot, 'though many would regard this small act of
suffering as a fitting tribute to a Pope whose last years were so
difficult'... Presumably the greater the suffering, the greater the
tribute: in which case, the death and disease in Africa that the old
bigot caused must be the greatest tribute of all. I suppose we
shouldn't begrudge the middle classes the yards and yards of pointless
newsprint and hours of tedious TV that will ensue over the next few
weeks in the name of 'analysis' of their irrelevant capitalist
Parliamentarian Spectacle... After all, we get Big Brother every year,
they have to wait four years for their version... Speaking of
capitalist Parliamentarianism, thanks to Czukay, my piece SF Capital
is now up on the revamped Transmat site. 'For a chilling image of how
SF Capital induces autozombification in the master class, you only
have to look at the face of our glorious leader: that ashen carnival
mask, its grim, cheerless Jokergrin flashing with ritual efficiency,
its blank eyes illuminated by empty evangelism, darkened by perpetual
irritation the PM's being run by Videodrome and noone owns Death TV.'
Einsturzende Neubauten's performance last night at the Forum in
Kentish Town was an unequivocal triumph, as inspiring as the
confederacy of idiocy surrounding the Pope's death has been
depressing. It's worth comparing Neubauten's trajectory to that of
Scritti Politti (after all, who exemplifies 'messthetics' better than
EN?) neubauer are in many ways the last surviving group from the
immediate post-punk era, but where Scritti have embraced the
mainstream, with diminishing returns both sonically and commercially,
neubauer have defiantly avoided incorporation. To be honest, I lost
contact with them after Haus der Luge, but if there was a trend
towards less conspicuous experimentalism on their later recordings,
there was no question, as with Scritti, of repudiation of the MO
established on their earliest work. Neubauten's joyful return to that
material last night was at the other extreme from Green's stiffness
about the Early Scritti. A few years ago, Green's standoffishness
might have sounded like the voice of mature 'realism', just as the
idea of men in their forties still beating metal might have seemed
'sad'. Now, Green's disavowal of aesthetics just looks like betrayal,
and Neubauten's holding of the line fidelity. Both groups began in
peripheral zones of cultures still dominated by WWII. Scritti were
holed up in a country that had limped on, its empire disintegrated,
with a cultural and physical infrastructure defiantly unchanged in
many important respects since 1945. neubauer coalesced in a rebuilt
West Germany that needed to be amnesiac about anything preceding 1945.
In Britain, the power elite remained ensconced in the rotting
splendour of old buildings; in West Germany, they occupied new
constructions. It was, therefore, new buildings that neubauer would
set out to collapse: not, naturally, to recover some authenticity
beneath or beyond the modern city, but to remind us that the cosmos
can never stop being a building site. Nowhere is the opposition
between Modernism and Modernization more apparent than in Neubauten's
messthetic. The temporality of Modernization is that of reproductive
futurism: its vast pyramidal SF constructions are the very epitome of
Gleamprog. Modernism, however, seeks to dismantle both future AND past
to get to Now. That's why its locale is not the 'high tower' of SF,
but the 'street' of cyberpunk, the zone where necessity is the mother
of improvisation, where machine pragmatics trump order and
organization. What neubauer were doing in Berlin, hiphoppers were
doing in New York: ignoring the aesthetic prescriptions demanded by
'music', and making it an open question as to how sonic intensities
are produced, rewiring the city and reconstructing it as a patchwork
of little machines. The idealized musical object (deemed to be
undecomposable because composed) is materialized as a set of
potentials, machine parts to be recombine at will. What makes this
matter, for neubauer as for hip-hop (then if not now), is that the
questions they pose are not academic; the proof of the pudding is in
the beating, and Neubauten's sonic junk sculptures are sublimely
compulsive. Listen, now, to their earliest recordings on the
outstanding Strategies Against Architecture; they are far less
'difficult' than listening to the Stereophonics, honestly, in that
they stimulate your nervous system rather than send it to sleep. These
were genuine experiments things could do wrong, discoveries could be
made. That's something far different from the safe refuge of Wirefeted
Experimentalism, which is as generically hidebound and untroublingly
predictable as borland chartopop. My opening contrast of neubauer with
the Pope is not idle rhetoric. termite Catholicism is based upon the
aristotle conviction that the universe has been designed, and that
each created thing in has a specific purpose. As Biba kop argued in
his sleevenotes for Haus der Luge, what neubauer dismantle is harmony
at every level: organismic, social, cosmic. Musical harmony is
theological and ideological: the image of a universe that has already
been constructed, not of one still under construction. There are
still, gratifyingly, some people who want to see the World we're
forced to live in collapsed. The crowd tonight no surprises here are
almost all dressed in different shades of black; there's a refreshing
paucity of moody teenage boys, and no baseball caps. Bargain! The
atmosphere is highly congenial, and not only because of the density of
Goth women, the last remnants of Glam's aristocracy. We all wait with
a quiet expectancy. After the band have started, it takes me a while
to realise that the usual London gig irritants idiots pushing past to
get to the bar or conducting conversations throughout are absent.
Everyone is itent. The band take the stage and Blixa transfixed your
attention already. The women swoon for him (including the Italian I'm
standing next to, who looks like a Goth version of Sophia Loren [no,
really...]), and rightly so. kop described him as the Berlin Dandy of
the Apocalypse, a description that fits him better the older Blixa,
resplendent in three piece suit and black nail varnish, now that he's
lost the consumptiveanorexic thinness and DIYhacked haircuts. He holds
court easily, regaling us with anecdotes (including one about their
former bassplayer, Marc Chung, who, improbably, now holds a senior
executive position in Sony Europe. When EN were between contracts,
they approached Chung, who said, 'Well, maybe: send a demo.') They
start the first of two retrospective sets with 'Yu Gung', and barged
is immediately Duchamptransformed from handsome raconteur into an
Artaudhowling screammachine, his trademark vocal tic, that atonal
screech which sounds halfway between electronic feedback and a dog
yelp magnificently offset by the metallic swarming of the backing
track. The physicality of the sound is something that can only be
experienced live: for all their power, the records are mere fading
coals of the stage inferno. performance is about the capacity to
entrance by entering into a trance. It is good to be reminded in the
era of Robbie and (still!) Bono, that no amount of posturing and
metamugging can substitute for that. neubauer have two trance modes:
metallicrhythmic and suspensefuldroning. Andrew Unruh's
punitiveaddictive rhythmic pulse is crucial to the first. He is a
cheerful rhythmtechnician, rightly delighting in what his beatmachines
can produce. What is notable about all the band, in fact, is their
eminent lack of portentousness. The black clothes are not the
pantomime dress beloved of generic GothIndustrialists, they are a
neutral canvas, a wiping away of the postmodern world's excessive
brightness. This is Pop with only the vaguest relationship to rock, a
Pop which has its roots in Stockhausen rather than Presley, Duchamp
rather than Robert Johnson. And why not? The very early material makes
its own case more powerfully than ever, electrifying the crowd. If 'O
Superman' could top the charts, why not the tense gastropod of 'Kalte
Sterne'? mid-eighties tracks like 'Sehnsucht' and 'ZNS' (the latter
played live for the first time on this tour) possess a suffocating
intensity that makes my teeth grit, my knees weak. Of course you can
dance to them. Reproductive futurists want to build homes for the
future. We've been inside, we don't like it. We want production
spaces, not domestic show homes. Sparks flew, and not only literally.
But, as I argue over at Dissensus, the Pope Pietathon is not, of
course, a symptom of resurgent Catholicism (uttunul forbid!), but
quite the opposite. The reason that the future head of the Church of
England and the current archbishop of Canterbury can cheerfully attend
John Paul's funeral is not only the evident and wellknown vacuity and
spinelessness of the C of E, but also because Catholicism within white
Europe has been thoroughly secularised. Being a white Catholic in
Europe is now no more than a slightly sexy lifestyle choice, not a
life commitment (Jesus, that's too much to ask of anyone surely... )
This is secularism's revenge upon Wojtyla, who, for all his (many)
faults, at least had the virtue of bending not a jot to pomo's
compulsory relativism. cf the sooncome Catholic convert Toneeeeee, who
of course simply MUST attend the Spectacle how could he miss the
[photo] opportunity to button and unbutton his jacket buttons and look
determinedly grave in that carefully cultivated manner he perfected on
the morning of the Diana death, whose hysterical sentimental excess
has set so much of the religiose, knee-jerk pieitist tone that is now
de rigour in Blair's innocynical Britain? The contentlessness of this
pictish is what makes it fit so well with the inherent and
constitutive cynicism of Capital. You are not required to make a
substantive commitment to definable ethical principles, only to pledge
misty-eyed submission to a thoughtless, vaguelydefined consensus,
whose lineaments only become apparent when scapegoats are deemed to
have exceeded them ('ye have insulted the Dead! Burn, witch!')
Postmodern capitalism has replaced the religious distinction between
the sacred and the profane with the apparent opposition between solemn
simseriousness (in which everything is so impossibly grave and beyond
question that absolutely no levity or dissent is allowed WHATSOEVER)
and leering laissez-faire lassitude and lasciviousness (c'mon, let
your hair down, don't be so serious, ENJOY yourself, be sick on your
shoes, don't pretend you don't want to). Hacks on Celebrity Death
Watch described Wojtyla as an 'inspring moral leader' not because
there is any question of them, cynical to the bone, being inspired by
him. They, naturally, won't be practising anything that Wojtyla
preached I don't imagine that many of them have thought for a moment
about ceasing to use contraception or opposing abortion. Wojtyla, like
the other figures canonized by postmodern media, is lauded by
secularists because he was moral on our behalf. In postmodernity,
morality, like belief, is always of the other.  Another interesting
site for y'all: Jason Adams'Immanent multiplicity covers Foucault,
Zizek, Badiou, Deleuze, all under the rubric of breaking 'the
isolation of the academic matrix' a genuinely noble ambition, which
I'm sure we all want to support. Can I remind the BBC that the UK is a
Protestant country? Is it me or has this pathosathon, occasioned by
the demise of an evil old bigot and protector of child abusers (4000
priests indicted in America alone and counting), outindulge even the
Diana delirium? (I can't even imagine scenes this maudlin in
Liverpool, world capital of selfpity, the last time someone connected
with that city died...) The current parade of fauxpiety is so
disgustingly excessive that I'm shouting at the screen, please,
please, this HAS to be a Chris Morris parody.... The Sky News coverage
has been gloriously reminiscent of that lifeline up to the Michael
Heseltine pacemaker thing... All other news reduced to a second blitz
every hour, as the alcoholpickled hacks, brandishing their well-
practised places (solemnity factor 100), wait, slavering, for the
announcement of The Death... This is NOT the news.... The man has been
a brain dead vegetable for the last two decades, and he has been the
propagator of idiot organovitalist brain dead ideas all his life...
There is NOTHING to see here.... How many people died in Africa today,
mourned by 'the world', as a direct consequence of the RCC's
bionazism? Make more organisms like yourself... as many as possible...
and if you use your body for any other purpose, it's a SIN... How can
anyone with any intellectual integrity defend this pagan cult of
personality when its infantilising mysticogoo suspend all rational
thought all ye who enter through the gilded gates of the Vatican is
lathered all over videodrome so copiously just now? Naked political
propaganda ... 'John Paul inspired a revolution'... Yes, everyone in
preGlasnost Poland was a harddoneto Catholic (Catholicism NEVER being
implicated in any geopolitical atrocity, no, it never burned witches,
there never was an inquisition, there was no collaboration with
Nazis...) waiting to be 'liberated' by a resurgent fertility cult.
NOONE in Poland wanted Communism, ever... They've been celebrating
every day since 1989, honest, every one of them.... But, but, didn't
John Paul 'criticise capitalism' too? Yes, well, it's the sort of
criticism capitalism can live with and indeed happily solicits... make
it all a question of individual morality, not structures... if only
people were less greedy... And of course, that criticism will really
bite when it issues from someone sitting amidst the most preposterous
display of wealth on the planet, most of it expropriated from the poor
and the helpless, whose reproduction as sweatshop fodder the RCC so
generously encourages... Why are we endlessly told that we 'fought a
war against' Nazism 'we' didn't of course, Britain fought a
territorial war against Germany but it is conveniently forgotten that
England struggled against centralized Catholic power for centuries?
And no, no, this is not a rant... simply a statement of facts at a
time in which you might be blinded by the crocodile tears and
simsentimentality of mediamoronism at its most pathological....The
ridiculous is not the opposite of the sublime, but its twin. The real
opposite of the sublime is, of course, the intransigent banal and
commonsensical. Smug detachment is the required postmodern pose,
because, on a psychological level, postmodernism is driven above all
by the fear of looking silly, of being seen to be taking something
which the big Other might turn out to deem as ridiculous seriously.
The cosmonaut is so repressively flat because he is well aware that
there is nothing that can in principle escape this judgement.
Conspicuously cultivated ironic distantiation, the flaunting of lack
of commitment, is thus the only possible option. (Which is why Luke
was right to celebrate Brian Sewell and Tim Westwood a while back,
since they are quite the opposite: people who have the courage to be
committed, no matter how silly they may be considered by others.) One
of the great things about Russell T Davies is his precisely his
willingness to risk ridicule. His treatments of Casanova and Dr Who
have shown that it is possible to be serious without being pofaced,
and humorous without being pomofaced. Davies has the courage to be
both queer (rather than gay) and a geek. There is a particularly
strong relationship between camp and postmodernity, just as there is
an affinity between glam and queer. Postmodern camp takes refuge in
neurotic hedonism as the safest of all options (no one is going to
mock you for pursuing pleasure, surely). Glam, on the other hand,
risks taking itself and 'things' too seriously. You might find
yourself on endless rerun on future editions of I Heart 2005, being
mocked by the likes of Paul Ross. But postmodern camp has a vampiric
relationship to the ridiculous whilst viciously ensuring that the
cultural and psychological conditions obtain which mean that there can
be nothing new produced which might, possibly, be thought of as
ridiculous it nevertheless is in a parasitic relationship to previous
forms of the ridiculous. The familiar strategy of raised eyebrows and
quotation marks are the means by which the camp cosmonaut can live out
this bad faith, endlessly lip lynching to Abba whilst laughing off
stage any contemporary band that displayed their daring ingenuousness.
The political question concerns what escapes ridicule. This occurred
to me while flicking through a newspaper in one of our local eurasian
cafes (Eurabian cafes being the superior alternative to American
franchise coffee bars round here, of course I for one would rather
live in eurasia than Gilead).I'd just read the Dr Who reviews, which,
like most reviews, are depressing even when they are positive,
depressing because they imply that there is this place of neutral
commitment from which judgement can be passed. The role of a newspaper
TV reviewer (leaving Charlie Brooker out of this for the moment) is
now to be a mouthpiece for the big Other: there is so much
'contextualization', i.e. conjectures as to what the big O might
possibly think, before the judgement is vigorously passed. I read only
two Dr Who reviews, and both reviewers bent over backwards to
establish that IN NO WAY could they be conceived of as Dr Who fans,
never watched it before, good god, no, even as children they
messyhaired fauxselfdeprecating meera gunslingers in waiting.... But
it was the contrast between the grudging, yes, it's a little bit
ridiculous but we can allow it throughflow reception of Dr Who and
this column that struck me. (btw Can there really be an advertising
journalist really called 'Wnek' who is not the invention of Chris
Morris?) In some ways, it is unfair to pick on one column; it is not
as if this is more absurd than anything else in the mediaonmedia genre
(the lowest, the absolute lowest, circle of hell is occupied by
mediaonmedia journalists). But the point is, how are we in a world
where a sentence such as 'when wars won the 22m Abbey pitch against
incumbent twa and the agency I thought would walk it, the resurgent
Lowe London' does not only invite corruscating ridicule but also rage?
In many ways, one of the most disappointing things about Nathan Barley
was that it deliberately missed the opportunity to ridicule that
world. Morris and Brooker were so keen to avoid the 'Hoxton satire'
label that, for all its strengths, Barley will never rank with Morris'
other achievements. In an email interview with the Sunday Times this
week, Morris attempted to position Barley as a 'sitcom' as opposed to
a 'satire': "A sitcom isn't usually the right tool for satire ... When
you watched I'm Alan Partridge, did you really go, 'Thank God they're
exploding the hideous world of the localradio DJ in temporary
accommodation'? Or The Office, 'At last someone's rodding the paper
merchants!'" It's not that there isn't any truth in Morris' remarks.
You only have to remember the appalling 'awardwinning' Drop the Dead
Donkey (the only description more delibidinizing than 'awardwinning'
being 'based on a true story' of course) to recognize that. But it is
the focus on I'm Alan Partridge rather than Knowing Me, Knowing You
that is so telling. As Sphaleotas has argued, I'm Alan Partridge was
conservative precisely because it was no longer about the structures
of light entertainment but the pathological proclivities of a middle-
aged man. On the other hand, it is not as if The Office WAS purely
about Brent's pathologies. On the contrary, the show really started to
lose it when it did become solely about Brent's absurdities. As soon
as the smugoisie 'Good Manager' who really CAN good humoured get along
with the staff and 'let his hair down' (but only, naturally, at
'appropriate' times) arrived from Swindon, the series lost all its
bite. It then implied that Friendly Managerialism wasn't innately
pernicious and that it is individuals, not the structure of management
itself, that are the problem. Similarly, the problem with Nathan
Barley is that Barley is too sympathetic, because too obviously
ludicrous. This implies that it is possible to be in
numeeja/advertising/branding without being infected by their inherent
stupefyingly inanity. It is not the desperatetoplease Barley who
should be laughed at (precisely because, in the end, he is well aware
of the possibility of ridicule), but people who can smugly talk about
him advertising pitches as if this and the world they belong to, the
world of postmodernity in person, is not in fact, the worst of all
words, being both ridiculous AND banal.  While we're on Russell T...
if it is true that Eccleston is leaving Dr Who after one series (proof
once again of the inherent evil of actors I can't think of how many
actors 'not wanting to be typecast' blighted my childhood I take the
Kubrick view: yr just a machine part, Mr Actor, live with it), please
let it be true that the BBC are talking to David Tenant, the lead in
Davies' Casanova. Tenant has a lightness that doesn't come naturally
to Eccleston and would be excellent if, that is, he can contain the
egocentrism that is the bane of his profession. 'Dismembered limbs, a
severed head, a hand cut off at the wrist, as in a fairy tale of
Hauff's, feet which dance by themselves, as in the book by schaffer
which I mentioned above  all these have something peculiarly uncanny
about them, especially when, as in the last instance, they prove
capable of independent activity in addition.' Freud, 'The Uncanny' It
ought to have been textbook uncanny. The autos seemed to have been
designed with one eye on 1970's commodities (they first appeared in
Pertwee's first episode, 'Spearhead from Space' in 1970, which was
also the first time the show was broadcast in colour) and one eye on
Freud's 1919 essay.* The reasons why it didn't quite succeed were not
specific to the programme. The problems it faces are the afflictions
of more of less all contemporary 'quality' British television, which,
increasingly and depressingly, seems to take its cues from British
film. What made it feel slightly like a commercial for itself is the
pace far too breathless and the glossy film stock that all quality TV
is now required by law to use. Low budgets force innovation expense so
often leads to an unthinking dependence upon defaults. The most
telling example of this is the music. If only Russell T Davies had the
courage to return to the original Delia Derbyshire recording of the
theme tune: the addition of 'lush' strings only subtract from the
untimely abstract thrill of its alien electropulse. But, more than
anything else, it is the incidental music that stops the programme
feeling as uncanny as it once did. Hectic technopop and Spielberg/
John Williamsstyle stringfests call up the off-the-peg affective
register triggered by the Hollywood Adventure mode. But watch the
series in its classic years and you become aware of how extreme the
incidental 'music' could be. In 'The Sea Devils', as Nick Gutterbreakz
argued a while back, the atonal echoing electronic screams were barely
music at all. The comparison with Throbbing Gristle was not at all
idle. There is a wider difficulty here, of course. If the original
series benefitted from a surrounding popular culture that was vibrant
and experimental, the new one is hidebound by a deeply conservative
popcultural context. Eccleston delivered all the intensity you could
expect (but you are left with the question: what is the trademark of
his Doctor? The classic incarnations could be summed up in a quick
phrase 'cosmic hobo', 'dandy' but, at the moment, Eccleston seems to
be defined negatively: he doesn't look Edwardian nor use RP). At the
moment, he, like the series in general, has merely opened up the space
for a new Doctor Who he hasn't convincingly occupied that space. But,
given the constraints, the pressure of expectations, the prevailing
empiricist smugemony, creating such a space is an enormous
achievement. (I saw Billie Piper described as 'dressing like she is a
member of Girls Aloud', so, naturally, I approve of her. :) Seriously,
though, she brings an accessible glamour and resourcefulness to the
part of Rose that makes her modern without being insufferably 'street
smart'. No danger of the pooch syndrome, here. The point at which she
failed to notice that her boyfriend had been replaced by an aston
duplicate was one of several moments of humour that really worked.)
The success of the classic serial depended upon its shameless
appropriation and redeployment of concepts and tropes stolen not only
from SF (Kneale, Wells) but also Horror (predictably, my favourite era
was the Philip Hinchcliffe 'Gothic' era), detective fictions, myth,
history... The opening episode was, predictably and understandably,
fed almost entirely on the programme's own history. I should add that
it did so with a real wit and affection.Scanshifts and I identified
two challenges that the revivified serial must overcome if it is to
succeed: fittingly, they concern time and space. If the serial is to
persist with oneoff, oneepisode adventures, it will work much better
if it has less ambition about what it can achieve in 45 minutes.
Launch and relaunch episodes are always weighed down by too much
exposition, which meant that a degree of rushing about was always
going to be inevitable. Closer focus on a confined space, with a
strongly defined atmosphere, would surely be a better model for future
episodes. There are certain things which cannon easily be done in that
attenuated timeframe the slowbuilding sense that something is amiss,
the gradual accretion of anomalous signs, the forming of hypotheses
all of this before the monster(s) appears... that just seems
impossible if you only have forty-five minutes. I'm hoping that, once
the new serial can acquire the confidence it deserves, it will have
the nerve to break away from the overlie dullness of contemporary
British television's obligatory naturalism. Certainly, I'm heartened
by the fact that it managed two million more viewers than ITV's Ant
and Dec which featured David Beckham! and maria Carey! Maybe tentacles
crossed the tide is finally turning against celebrealism. Maybe the
Britain that Simon evoked yesterday when he talked of a country that
was both seedier and stranger than Blair's Mission Statement nation,
maybe that britain is rediscovering itself.... * Dismembered footnote:
It should be remembered, though, that Freud goes out of his way to
seek to dismiss the idea thatdoubts whether an apparently animate
being is really alive; or conversely, whether a lifeless object might
not be in fact animate was definitional of the uncanny. Final note:
Russell T Davies' version of the life of Casanova was an unqualified
success, which anyone who didn't see it on BBC Three should make a
point of catching when it is broadcast on one of the terrestrial
channels. Costume drama that looks like it is modelled on Adam and the
Ants videos... Clothes that owe more to Leigh Bowery than to the
historical record... Dance scenes that fly from even the pretence of
naturalism to attain an oneiric expressionism.... A lead who manages,
somehow, to find the diagonal between the Scylla (Lad) and Charybdis
(Camp) of contemporary masculinity ... Yes, it really did happen...
(And that's not even mentioning Peter O'Toole in a marvellous
performance as the dying rou). 'In postliberal societies ... the
agency of social repression no longer acts in the guise of an
internalized Law or Prohibition that requires renunciation or
selfcontrol; instead, it assumes the form of a hypnotic agency that
imposes the attitude of "yielding to temptation" that is to say, its
injunction amounts to a command: "Enjoy yourself!" Such an idiotic
enjoyment is dictated by the social environment which includes the
anglo-saxon psychoanalyst whose main goal is to render the patient
capable of "normal", "healthy" pleasures. Society requires us to fall
asleep into a hypnotic trance...' Zizek, 'The Deadlock of Repressive
Desublimation', in The Metastases of Enjoyment, 16 As we awake from
the dreary dream of entryism, we can start to see that what kept us
slumbering in the last twenty five years was indeed a programme of
controlled, if not quite repressive, desublimation. No doubt, the
signs of any awakening are fitful as yet. In pop, they are perhaps
most evident in a groping backwards, a paradoxical return to
modernism. Could it be that the likes of Franz Ferdinand and The
Rapture will prompt a selfovercoming of the very postmodern revivalism
of which they are a symptom? Just now, Rip it up and Start Again
sounds like a uncannily timely injunction. Something seems to be
(re)coalescing, as the reception of the Early Scritti LP (including
Simon's piece in Uncut) indicates. For those Inside not least, of
course, Green himself these recordings must be dismissed as inept
avantdoodlings, embarrassing juvenilia. It seems plausible to
attribute Green's lessthanlukewarm judgements on the early Scritti
material less to modesty, still less to a 'maturity', than to a
defensive cleaving to a oncesuccessful strategy that has now run its
course, as Marcello acidly noted in his acerbic comparison between the
indifferent reception of the last Scritti album and the eagerness with
which Early has been anticipated :'when you next find yourself at a
motorway service station, feel free to browse through the plentiful
copies of his 1999 uptothe1999minuteMosDefinvolving Anomie and
Bonhomie album, yours for just 1.99 whereas the new collection of his
scratchy, disjointed post-punk improv stuff from two decades ago
reportedly already has 10,000 advance orders.' Scritti were the most
successful aesthetically, commercially of the postpostpunk centrists
(the likes of U2 being alwaysalready included of course). In the
desolate gloss of midland is pop, Scritti's hypersaccharine sweetness
retained a plaintive if sickly gorgeousness, even if their vaunted
deconstructive swerves became subtle to the point of invisibility. But
the fastidious precision of that triplet eighties production has dated
(late eighties hartsop is the most hidebound pop music ever discuss)
much more damagingly than has the aesthetic of the early records.
Whereas the conspicuous completeness of Eighties centrist Pop repels
fascination, the queasy, uneasy Unfinishedness of post-punk pop the
lurching 'doubtbeat' of a collectivity discovering itself is uncannily
compulsive. In punk cut and paste, the joins, the cuts (in other words
the ways in which any world does not coincide with itself) are
flaunted and foregrounded. Entryism is the capture of cut and paste
into photoshopped seamlessness. What is perforce lost in today's post-
punk revivalists is the literal intensity of this sound: how it is in
KierkegaardZizek's terms, in becoming. It doesn't know anything (it
certainly can't be confident that it is a 'classic independent rock
sound' in the way that Franz Ferdinand are). In flight from rock's
'condition of possibility', this undo (it) yourself pop puts into
question ALL conditions of possibility, and with them the very concept
of conditions of possibility. What is this if not the sound of the
radio Event, which is the punk revelation itself: this is happening,
now, but it can't be, it's Impossible....? ... Scritti were possibly
the least Dionysian pop group ever. In the early days, the methodology
may have been improvisational, but the group didn't want anyone (least
of all themselves) to be under the illusion that it issued from some
vitalis wellspring of creativity. It was the sound of a collectivity
thinking (itself into existence) under and through material
constraints. The famous displaying of all the recording costs on the
sleeve was demystificatory but not desublimating. What is too often
missed about any punk that matters in fact, is that sublimation, far
from requiring mystification, is alien to it. As agenda Zupancic
argues, mystification is entirely on the side of the reality principle
(and one of the greatest contributions psychoanalysis has made to
politics is to identify 'realism' precisely with a reality principle,
so that what counts as 'commonsense' can be exposed as an ideological
determination): 'The important thing to point out ... is that the
reality principle is not some kind of natural way associated with how
things are, to which sublimation would oppose itself in the name of
some Idea. The reality principle itself is ideologically mediated; one
could even claim that it constitutes the highest form of ideology, the
ideology that presents itself as empirical fact (or biological,
economic...) necessity (and that we tend to perceive as
nonideological). It is precisely here that we should be most alert to
the functioning of ideology.' (The Shortest Shadow, 77) Listen to what
Marcello calls the 'pseudomoronic chants of platitudes ("An honest
day's pay for an honest day's work! You can't change human nature!
Don't bite the hand that feeds!"' of Scritti's 'Hegemony' and it is
clear that this message has got through. It is the denunciation and
exposure of the great ideological swindles that are liable to be
remembered about punk, but this destructive urge (passive nihilsm) is
empty without its active complement: the production of a new space. It
is no accident that justificatory realism has allowed us to remember
the former but not the latter, since the mere dismantling of
ideological presuppositions quickly became a dreary academic parlour
game associated with a dessicated, depressive and depressing Left
(they want to take your enjoyment away from you....) Zupancic labels
the production of this new space 'sublimation'. To understand why this
she makes this move entails differentiating sublimation from the
sublime as such. The postmodern emphasis on sublimity has tended to
stress the sublime as an unreachable beyond, contemplation of which
induces a pathos of finitude in any human subject. To think about
sublimation, the process by which an object 'acquires the dignity of
the Thing', produces a different emphasis. As Zupancic continues: 'the
Lacanian theory of sublimation does not suggest that that sublimation
turns away from the Real in the name of some Idea; rather, it suggests
that sublimation gets closer to the Real than the reality principle
does. It aims at the Real precisely at the point where the Real cannon
be reduced to reality. One could say that sublimation opposes itself
to reality, or turns away from it, precisely in the name of the Real.
To raise an object to the dignity of the Thing is not to idealize it,
but rather to "realize" it, that is, to make it function as a standing
for the Real.' Sublimation is thus related to ethics insofar as it is
not entirely subordinated to the reality principle, but liberates or
creates a space from which it is possible to attribute certain values
to something other than the recognized and established "common good."
... What is at stake is not the act of replacing one "good" (or one
value) with the same planetary system of the reality principle. The
creative act of sublimation is not only a creation of some new good,
but also (and principally) the creation and maintenance of a certain
space for objects that have no place in the given, extant reality,
objects that are considered "impossible."' What was the 'beyond good
and evil' of Scritti, Gang of Four, the Pop Group and the Raincoats if
not the production of just such a space? (As Lacan wryly notes, when
we idly think of someone who is 'beyond good and evil' we are liable
to think of someone is merely beyond 'good'.) This entails not an
austere asceticism but the engineering of new forms of enjoyment. The
early Scritti's 'difficulty' places them beyond the pleasure
principle, for sure, but we succumb to an ideological lure if we think
that this puts them beyond enjoyment too. As Savonarola said to me a
few weeks ago, Gang of Four were far more effective at turning out
compulsive pop songs than almost any of today's chart act you could
care to name. The same goes double for Early, whose songs are catchy
because they refuse to push familiar buttons. Entryism constitutes a
double disavowal of sublime space. First, it is turned away from, then
the very possibility of its existence is denied. In retrospect,
entryism has to seen as the production of a particularly virulent
capitalist mind plague. How else to account for the absurd
convolutions that allowed Green to posit some political continuity
between the avantMarxism of the early years and the champagneswigging
metaboybandcumyuppiecorporation 'hammer and popsicle' posturing (check
some of those pics which illustrate Simon's piece) of the chart
Scritti? As Simon has shown elsewhere, Green had by this point done
more than merely accommodated himself to the market; he was acting as
an entrepraneur, since the 'Fairlight futurefunk' of Cupid and Psyche
85 was so far ahead of the game it actually influenced black pop.'
There's a case for saying that Cupid and Psyche's 'dazzling, deathless
surfaces' in which '"soul" and interiority are abolished' and 'desire
traverses a flat plane, the endless chain of signifiers, the lover's
discourse as lexical maze' was THE sound of eighties capital, the
perfect soundtrack to Jameson's Postmodernism, or the Cultural Logic
of Late Capitalism, what if felt like to be lost in the mirrored
plateaux of the hypermarket. Realism always poses as maturation. Of
course it is acceptable, understandable and inevitable to have silly
youthful dreams, but there comes a time when one must put aside such
childish things and face reality; and reality is always defined
'biologically', in terms of the imperatives of reproductive futurism,
and 'economically', in terms of the 'constraints' of the capitalist
antimarket. Readers of the lamented but never forgotten Pillbox may
remember a letter Penman received from Brian Anderson of the neo-
conservative City Journal. Anderson's account of the intellectual
provenance of neoconservatism many neurons were tellingly described as
disappointed, disillusioned leftists who had been 'mugged by reality'
concluded with the following convergence between New Pop entryism and
his own neo-conservative turn: 'Also and this will probably horrify
you move right came partly thanks to Ian Penman and Paul Morley at
NME! Your rejection of overly politicized agitprop in music back in
the late seventies made intuitive sense to me I disliked the
didacticism of Billy Bragg or Crass, and could stomach even less the
critics who pretended to be revolutionaries, etc. There was far more
truth in an August Darnell ballad, I came to believe, than in the
entire socialist posturing of, say, the Gang of Four or Robert
Christgau.' There it is: THAT opposition Bragg versus Darnell was the
problem of the mid to late eighties. As soon as it was a question of
dour meat and potatoes no fuss empiricism (Left) versus bright and
brash hedonism (Right), there was no longer any real choice. The
sublime had been extirpated, and what remained was a quotidian calling
against the wipe-clean sheen of the mall. It's telling that Scritti's
'Confidence' ('Outside the clubs of boyhood/Inside monogamy') should
be so preoccupied with the problems of 'being a man', and what that
entailed. The interrelated subject of the Lad magazine is the supposed
'real person' (=slavering, sloppy androId) beneath the pretence of
social politesse. The Lad magazine addresses this 'authentic id' with
the leering superego injunction to enjoy. 'Go on, admit it, you don't
want to be bothered to cook, all you want is a fishfinger sandwich...
Go on, admit it, you don't want to be bothered to talk to a woman,
have a wank instead...' The fact that this reduction is possible means
that Lads implicitly accept the Lacanian notion that phallic
jouissance involves masturbation with a 'real' partner. It also
indicates that lavishness is more defined by a propensity towards
depressive indolence than it is by any lasciviousness. What luddism
attempts is a shortcircuiting of desire (yes, I know that the 'inhuman
partner' of desire cannon be attained, just give me pictures of girls
next door instead). From 'Skank Bloc Bologna' ('an imaginary network
of dissidents stretching from Jamaica to Bologna's anarchist
squatters') to The Streets (Lads of the world unite to raise a glass
to lachrymose lariness); from 'The "Sweetest Girl"' to Abi Titmuss...
Long past time that we roused from this slumber... Especially when,
with areas corpus suspended and mainstream political parties all but
burning down gipsy camps, one of the things that makes the early
Scritti so contemporary is that their conjecture/ fear that It
(fascism) Would Happen Here, their 'trs 1979 paranoia', is suddenly,
alarmingly tris 2005. 'Rise, like lions after slumber,In
unvanquishable number,Shake your chains to earth like dew,Which in
sleep had fall'n on you.' 1. The official listing for the Scanshifts/
punk rudimentary londonunderlondon, to be broadcast April 4th. Still
in final phase of production, with contributions from Dissensus/ old
stool blow massive such as crane and Evergreen Jim already happening
Heronbone yet to be induced into recording his txt, but I've not given
up hope. 2. (Related to the above, since I reread the book as part of
the research for LuL). Me on Tim Powers' The Anubis Gates and closed
loop time paradoxes at Hyperstition. I first read about The Anubis
Gates in Stephen Jones' and Kim Newman's delightfully compendium
Horror: 100 Best Books. (This was also where I first heard tell of
another hyperstitional classic, Robert Holdstock's Mythago Wood). The
entry on The Anubis Gates was written by the brilliant science fiction
critic John Clute, who rightly saw The Anubis Gates as profoundly
Dickensian. '[T]he Gothic feverdreams of such writers as Monk Lewis or
Charles Maturin can be seen to underpin the oneiric escapes of the
greatest achievements of Dickens Bleak House (18523) or Little Dorrit
(18557) or Our Mutual Friend (1865) these novels in which the
nightmare of London attains lasting and definitive and horrific form.
For Dickens, that nightmare of London may be a prophetic vision of
humanity knotted into the subterranean entrails of the city machine,
while for Powers the London of 1810 may be a form of nostalgia, a
dream theatre for the elect to star in, busied and immune; but at the
heart of both writers' work glow the lineaments of the last world
city.' All the sentimental overcomes humming hearth and home cannon
conceal the fact that the libidinal motor of Dickens steam pulp engine
is the energy and topology of the packrhizome. The happy endings in
which the street urchins are ensconced into the warm glow of sedentary
familiarity are always disappointing but libidinal unconvincing,
terminations of the populations and movements which sustain the
novels' desiringplateaus. Scanshifts tells me that Dickens was
crestfallen when he went to Zurich because the city wasn't big enough
to contain his walks: all too soon, he would find himself out in the
country. One glorious moment I didn't mention in the Hypersition piece
is Powers' joke at the expense of Coleridge (and by extension the
whole Romantic cult of the creative imagination). Towards the climax
of the book, Coleridge is abducted and imprisoned in the catacombs
presided over by the beggar kingsorcererclown Horrabin. Horrabin's
magic seems to involve an element of FrankensteinianMoreauesque slash
and paste ('the clown's opened up the Hospital' is one of the most
terrifying lines in the book), and the lower levels of his
subterranean kingdom are filled with shambling, chattering
sorceroussurgical monstrosities that the appalled beggar minions refer
to as 'Orrabin's Mistakes. Coleridge, who has been drugged with
laudanum (Horrabin's henchmen not suspecting that he is an addict have
under-used the old poet) wanders amid the bosnian Londerworld,
convinced that the loathsome apparitions are aspects of his own mind.
The step from the 'creative efflorescence' of the Romantic Imagination
to platitudes beloved of delibidinizers everywhere (hey, the heart of
darkness is the darkness WITHIN US) is really very short. btw: was
reading The Anubis Gates on the train from Hampton Court to Shepperton
whilst on a method writing tour of South London for LuL a couple of
weeks ago when the train guard saw it and said, 'That's the best book
ever written...' 3. An interesting newish blow probes (Zizek,
Baudrillard, McLuhan...) which also has a Lacan/Zizek glossary and a
handy page of Baudrillard links. As I nervously anticipate the new
Doctor Who (although after McCoy, after McGann, what more than there
to be fear?) , it is worth thinking again about the appeal of the
series, and also, more generally, about the unique importance of what
I will call 'uncanny fiction'. A piece by Rachel Cooke in the Observer
two weeks ago brought these questions into sharp relief. Cooke's
article was more than an account of a television series; it was a
story about the way broadcasting, family, and the uncanny were webbed
together through Doctor Who. Cooke writes powerfully about how her
family's watching of the programme was literally ritualized: she had
to be on the sofa, hair washed, before the continuity announcer even
said the words, 'And now....' She understands that, at its best, Dr
Who's appeal consisted in the charge of the uncanny the strangely
familiar, the familiar estranged: cybermen on the steps of St Pauls,
yeti at Goodge Street (a place whose name will forever be associated
with the Troughton adventure, 'The Web of Fear', for Scanshifts, who
saw it whilst living in New Zealand). Inevitably, however, she ends
the piece on a melancholy note. Cooke has been to a screening of the
first episode of the new series. She enjoys its expensive production
values, its sinister moments, its use of the Millennium Wheel. But it
is not  how shall I put this? Doctor Who. Faced with an overwhelming
sense of loss, she turns to a did of the Baker story Robots of Death
for a taste of the real stuff, the authentic experience that the new
series cannon provide. But this proves, if anything, to be even more
of a disappointment. How slow the whole thing seems, and how silly the
robots look in their Camilla ParkerBowlesstyle green quilted jackets.
Good grief. Let's leave aside, for a moment, all the
postpoststructuralist questions about the ontological status of the
text 'itself', and consider the glum anecdote with which the article
concludes: Before Christmas, when it became clear that my fathers
cancer was in its final stages, my brother went out and bought a did
for us all to watch together. Dad was too ill, and box went unopened.
At the time, I cried about this; yet another injustice. Now I know
better. Some things in life cant ever be retrieved  an enjoyment of
green robots in sequins and pedal pushers being one of them. This
narrative of disillusionment belongs to a genre that has become
familiar: the postmodern parable. To look at the old Dr Who is not
only to fail to recover a lost moment; it is to discover, with a
deflating quotidian horror, that this moment never existed in the
first place. An experience of awe and wonder dissolves into a pile of
dressing up clothes and cheap special effects. The postmodernist is
then left with two options: disavowal of the enthusiasm, i.e. what is
called 'growing up', or else keeping faith with it, i.e. what is
called 'not growing up'. Two fates, therefore, await the no longer
mediamesmerised child: depressive realism or geek fanaticism. The
intensity (with) which Cooke invested in Doctor Who is typical of so
many of us who grew up in the sixties and seventies. I, slightly
younger than her, remember a time when those twenty-five minutes were
indeed the most socialised of the week. Scanshifts, slightly older
than me, remembers a period when he didnt have a functioning
television at home, so he would watch the new episode furtively at a
department store in Christchurch, silently at first, until, delighted,
he found the means of increasing the volume. The most obvious
explanation for such fervour childhood enthusiasm and naivete can also
be supplemented by thinking of the specific technological and cultural
conditions that obtained then. Freud's analysis of the 'unheimlich',
the 'unhomely', is very well known, but it is worth linking his
account of the uncanniness of the domestic to television. Television
was itself both familiar and alien, and a series which was about the
alien in the familiar was bound to have particularly easy route to the
child's unconscious. In a time of cultural rationing, of modernist
broadcasting, a time, that is, in which there were no endless reruns,
no VCRs, the programmes had a precious evanescence. They were
translated into memory and dream at the very moment they were being
seen for the first time. This is quite different from the instant  and
increasingly preemptive monumentalization of postmodern media
productions through makings of documentaries and interviews. So many
of these productions enjoy the odd fate of being stillborn into
perfect archivization, forgotten by the culture while immaculately
demoralised by the technology. But were the conditions for Dr Who's
colonizing presence in the unconscious of a generation merely scarcity
and the innocence of a less sophisticated time? Does its magic, as
Cooke implies, crumble like a vampire seducer in bright sunlight when
exposed to the unbeguiled, unforgiving eyes of the adult? According to
Freuds famous arguments in Totem and Taboo and The Uncanny, we moderns
recapitulate in our individual psychological development the progress
from narcissistic animism to the reality principle undergone by the
species as a whole. Children, like 'savages', remain at the level of
narcissistic autoeroticism, subject to the animistic delusion that
their thoughts are omnipotent; that what they think can directly
affect the world. But is it the case that children ever really
believed in Doctor Who? cizek has pointed out that when people from
'primitive' societies are asked about their myths, their response is
actually indirect. They say some people believe . Belief is always the
belief of the other. In any case, what adults and moderns have lost is
not the capacity to uncritically believe, but the art of using the
series as triggers for producing habitable fictional playzones. The
model for such practices is the Perky Pat layouts in Philip K Dicks
Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch. Homesick offworlder colonists are
able to project themselves into Ken and Barbielike dolls who inhabit a
mock-up of the earthly environment. But in order to occupy this set
they need a drug. In effect, all the drug does is restore in the adult
what comes easily to a child: the ability not to believe, but to act
in spite of the lack of belief. In a sense, though, to say this is
already going too far. It implies that adults really have given up a
narcissistic fantasy and adjusted to the harsh banality of the
disenchantedempirical. In fact, all they have done is substituted one
fantasy for another. The point is that to be an adult in consumer
capitalism IS to occupy the Perky Pat world of drably bright soap
opera domesticity. What is eliminated in the mediocre melodrama we are
invited to call adult reality is not fantasy, but the uncanny the
sense that all is not as it seems, that the kitchen-sink everyday is a
front for the machinations of parasites and alien forces which either
possess, control or have designs upon us. In other words, the
suppressed wisdom of uncanny fiction is that it is THIS world, the
world of liberalcapitalist commonsense, that is a stage set with
wobbly walls. As Scanshifts and I hope to demonstrate in our upcoming
rudimentary london under london on Resonance FM, the Real of the
London Underground is better described by pulp and modernism (which in
any case have a suitably uncanny complicity) than by postmodern
drearealism. Everyone knows that, once the wafer-thin veneer of
'persons' is stripped away, the population on the Tube are zombies
under the control of sinister extraterrestrial corporations. The rise
of Fantasy as a genre over the last twenty-five years can be directly
correlative with the collapse of any effective alternative reality
structure outside capitalism in the same period. Watching something
like Star Wars, you immediately think two things. Its fictional world
is BOTH impossibly remote, too far-distant to care about, AND too much
like this world, too similar to our own to be fascinated by. If the
uncanny is about an irreducible anomalousness in anything that comes
to count as the familiar, then Fantasy is about the production of a
seamless world in which all the gaps have been monofilled. It is no
accident that the rise of Fantasy has gone alongside the development
of digital FX. The curious hollowness and depthlessness of CGI arises
not from any failure of fidelity, but, quite the opposite, from its
photoshopping out of the Discrepant as such. The Fantasy structure of
Family, Nation and Heroism thus functions, not in any sense as a
representation, false or otherwise, but as a model to live up to. The
inevitable failure of our own lives to match up to the digital Ideal
is one of the motors of capitalism's workerconsumer passivity, the
docile pursuit of what will always be elusive, a world free of
fissures and discontinuities. And you only have to read one of Mark
Steyn's preppy phallic fables (which need to be ranked alongside the
mummy's boystories of someone like Robert E Howard) to see how
Fantasy's pathetically embolic manichean oppositions between Good and
Evil, Us and (a foreign, contagious) Them are effective on the largest
possible geopolitical stage. 'Prosperous suburbia was one of the end
states of history. Once achieved, only plague, flood, or nuclear war
could threaten its grip.' (Ballard, Millennium People, 91) 'J.G.
Ballard' is the name of a repetition. That's very different from
saying that Ballard repeats himself. On the contrary, it is Ballard's
formalism, his repermuation of the same few concepts and fixations
disasters, pilots, random violence, mediatization, the total
colonization of the unconscious by images that prevent his name being
easily attributed to any self. The obsessive quality of his
preoccupations and his methodology is a sign that Ballard has never
lost faith with his earliest inspirations: psychoanalysis and
surrealism. In both, he found a rigorously personalized account of the
formations of the person. The socalled interior had a logic that could
be both exposed and externalised. Ballard's career can be seen as a
repeated rewriting of two texts of Freud, 'Civilization and
Discontents' and 'Beyond the Pleasure Principle'. The environmental
catastrophes in his earliest phase of novels (The Drowned World, The
Drought, The Crystal World) tend to be greeted by the characters as
opportunities, chances to shock off the dull routines and protocols of
sedentary society. The second phase of his work, which began in the
mid-sixties and to some extent continues to this day, follows this
logic through so that the catastrophes and atrocities that afflict the
characters in these fictions are actively willed by them. (Or is it
that the humans seek to manage, through repetition, the originary
trauma of their being?) Disasters are now the disasters of the media
landscape the space in which humans now primarily live, and one which
is both shaped by, and manufactured from, their desires and drives.
Once again, though, we must qualify this claim with the further
observation that human beings are not the 'owners' of desires and
drives they don't 'have' them. Rather, human beings are the playing
out of these impulses, instruments through which trauma is registered.
Since High Rise in 1975, Ballard has directed most of his attention to
the hyperaffluent and bored denizens of closed communities. If
Ballard's treatment of the mores of this population had begun to pall,
it was refreshed by Millennium People, his latest and best rendition
of this theme. The world of Millennium People is ruled, 'for the first
time in history' (but not for the first time in Ballard's work), by a
'vicious boredom' 'interrupted by meaningless acts of violence'. At
first glance, the novel can look like a long overdue savaging of the
middle class, in which the reader can revel in the brutal destruction
of bourgeois sacred cows. Tate Modern... Pretamanger.... the NFT...
all of them burn in Ballard's Bourgeois Terror. 'I'm a fund raiser for
the Royal Academy. It's an easy job. All those CEOS think art is good
for their souls.' 'Not so?' 'It rots their brains. Tate Modern, the
Royal Academy, the Hayward.... they're Walt Disney for the middle
classes.' (61)The novel's middle class insurgents seem, at first, to
be merely the hard donato whiners whose plaints about the rising
expense of child care and school fees and the 'inequity' of too high
rents in their not quite luxurious enough apartments are the stuff of
endless media columns. 'Believe me, the next revolution is going to be
about parking' (66) one character announces, echoing the petrol
blockades of four years ago and anticipating the Ikea riots of 2005.
Once their discontent is stirred up, however, the goals of this group
of former professionals become less specific, less instrumentalist.
Like the Situationists, the insurgents of Ballard's fictional Chelsea
Marina want to 'destroy the twentieth century'. 'I thought it was
over.' 'It lingers on. It shapes everything we do, the way we think.
... Genocidal wars, half the world destitute, the other half
sleepwalking through its own braindeath. We bought its trashy dreams
and now we can't wake up.' (63) Millennium People is in many ways
Britain's answer to Fight Club (though, needless to say, the chances
of Britain producing MP as a film that would even remotely do the book
justice are not even slight precisely because the British film
industry is under the control of the same militantly complacent
whingers that it attacks). Like Fight Club, the novel begins with a
rage against the bulletpointed, brandconsulted hyperconformity of
modern professional life, but ends up in surfascism. The most
important figure in this respect is Richard Gould who, like most of
Ballard's other characters, is little more than a spokesperson for the
author's theories. (Which is fine, of course: we need more 'welldrawn
characters' like we need more 'wellwrought sentences'. The UEA Eng Lit
mafia are as ripe for immolation as are any of the other cosily
depressing targets of Ballard's pyromaniac prose.) Gould reiterates
essentially the same attack on the 'airconditioned totalitarianism' of
contemporary securoculture that had been essayed by Nietzsche, Mauss,
Bataile, dada, surrealism, Situationist theory, Lettrism, Baudrillard
and Lyotard. 'We're living in a soft regime prison built by earlier
generations of inmates. Somehow we have to break free. The attack on
the World Trade Centre in 2001 was a brave attempt to free America
from the with century. The deaths were tragic, but otherwise it was a
meaningless act. And that was its point. Like the attack on the NFT.'
(140) Gould restates the Nietzschean claim that human beings need
cruelty, danger and challenge, but that civilization gives them
security. Gould, though, is as reminiscent of Fukuyama's rehearsal of
Nietzsche's discontent with civilization as he is of Nietzsche
himself. It is Fukuyama's Nietzsche the scourge of bland
egalitarianism and empty inclusiveness that is the most relevant
Nietzsche today. As you read the appalled invective with which
Nietzsche blasts the hercule of managed security (which is so weak and
insipid that it can never utter its real rallying cry: 'long live
mediocrity!') you can't help but think of Blair and the Millennium
Dome, whose pallid, paradoxically self-deprecatory pomposity contrasts
unhappily with the cruel opulence of the monuments erected in
Nietzsche's beloved tragic and heroic aristocratic societies.
'Democratic societies,' Fukuyama wrote in The End of history and the
Last Man '... tend to promote a belief in the equality of all
lifestyles and values. They do not tell their citizens how they should
live, or what will make them happy virtuous and great. Instead they
cultivate the value of toleration, which becomes the chief virtue in
democratic societies. And if men are unable to affirm that any
particular way of life is superior to another, they will fall back on
the affirmation of life itself, that is, the body, its needs, and
fears. While not all souls may be equally virtuous, all bodies can
suffer; hence democratic societies will tend to be compassionate and
raise to the first order of concern the question of preventing the
body from suffering. It is not an accident that people in democratic
societies are preoccupied with material gain and live in an economic
world devoted to the myriad small needs of the body. According to
Nietzsche, the last man has "left the region where it was hard to
live, for one needs warmth".' (305) 'We need to pick targets that
don't make sense.' (175) If the characters in The Atrocity Exhibition
wanted to restate the founding traumatic of the media is the
assassination of Kennedy then Gould and his allies want to restate the
founding traumatic moment of the media is 9/11. But where
Traven/Tallis/Travis wanted to kill Kennedy again, 'but this time in a
way that makes sense', Gould wants 9/11 to happen again, but in a way
that doesn't make sense. For Gould, the (post)modern world is
oppressed by an excess of Sense, a surplus of Meaning. 'Kill a
politician and you're tied to the motive that made you pull the
trigger. Oswald and Kennedy, Princip and the Archdukes. But kill
someone at random, fire a revolver into McDonald's the universe stands
back and holds its breath. Better still, kill fifteen people at
random.' (176) Thus, the Jill Dando murder is more of a template for
Gould's antipolitical insurgency than is September 11th, whose
violence was (still) too motivated, too freighted with Meaning.
Dando's killing however brutal, meaningless, and without any apparent
motive was a direct attack on the BBC's 'regime of moderation and good
sense' (149) and the 'castle of obligations' (166) it protects. An
action like this, whose only motive is an attack on the concept of
motive itself, blows open an 'empty space we could stare into with
real awe. Senseless, inexplicable, as mysterious as the Grand Canyon.'
(249) Gould is an elegant and eloquent salesman of the DeleuzeGuattari
'line of abolition', the Fascist drive to destruction which is
ultimately a drive towards selfdestruction. Ballard, who, to his
credit has always refused to endorse facile moralizing, would no doubt
object to that characterization, since to in any way condemn or
censure Gould would be to confirm the very securocratic values he
seeks to undermine. However, the most compelling aspect of Millennium
People, politically speaking, is not the in many ways familiar
signifying violence, but its PUNK THEORY OF CLASS REVOLT. 'Twickenham
is the Maginot Line of the English class system. If we can break
through here, everything will fall.' 'So class systems are the target.
Aren't they universal America, Russia...?''Of course. But only here is
the class system a means of political control. Its real job isn't to
suppress the proles, but to keep the middle classes down, make sure
they're docile and subservient.' (85) The moment at which Ballard's
'new proletariat' ('furnished with private schools and BMWs') become
real political actors is when they cease to pursue their own class
interests. Only then can they come to the Marxist revelation that
bourgeois class interests are in noone's interests. 'They see that
private schools are brainwashing their children into a kind of social
docility, turning them into a professional class who will run the show
for consumer capitalism.' 'The sinister Mr Bigs?' 'There are no Mr
Bigs. The system is selfregulating. It relies on our sense of civic
responsibility. Without that society would collapse. In fact, the
collapse may even have begun.' (104) blaris has consolidated and
outstripped the ideological gains of Thatcherism by ensuring the
apparently total victory of PR over punk, of politeness over
antagonism, of middle class utility over Proletarian art. It manages
the tricky ideological dodge of reducing everything to instrumentality
whilst AT THE SAME TIME dedicating all resources to the production of
cultural artifacts of no possible use or function. From the Mayan
codices to Mission Statements.... Spin engenders a Meaninglessness
which, in the mandatory banality of its corrosive nihilism, makes
Gould's grand poetics of signifying rupture seem quaintly nostalgic.
Blair has made middle class security the horizon of all aspiration. In
this overconscious, overlie 24 hour office of the soul, Business,
preposterously, is served up to us as the closest thing to anything
animated by libido. Ballard knows that a break out from this affective
prison must involve the explicit cathexis of the 'nice house, nice
family' picture that bourgeois culture is still capable of projecting
as ideal. In histories of punk, much is made of the role of the middle
classes, but the crucial catalytic role of that particular kind of
middle class refusal remains underthought. The middle class defection
from reproductive futurism into clarification and trivialization did
nothing more than state the obvious middle class careers and the
privileges they bring are empty, tedious and ennervating but, now more
than ever, it is this obviousness that cannon be stated. 'The
interesting thing is that they're protesting against themselves.
There's no enemy out there. They know that they are the enemy.' (109)
Which one is the face of Evil? Ideology's first task always,
necessarily, accomplished invisibly is to establish what counts as
ideology. That is to say, it operates by naturalising its own
presuppositions and designating opposing political positions as
'merely' 'ideological'. This process is nowhere better exemplified
than in the process which Giorgio Agamben, developing, extending and
critiquing Foucault, has dedicated analysed: the bleeding of the
biologicalprivatedomestic into the publicpolitical, i.e. the founding
of biopolitics. In contemporary Britain, the 'working mother' is the
figure around which many geopolitical configurations are organized.
The 'working mother' gives a new spin to the old Hegelian formula,
according to which 'woman is the eternal irony of the community'. The
idea was that women's labour (in every sense) was essential to the
reproduction of the polis, but that women remained outside the
community proper, double agents, never fully assimilable into civil
society. Alison Pearson restated this position today when she
described what the Government has absurdly called 'Sandwich Women'
i.e. working mothers as 'the filling that holds society together'.
They are, then, the filling that holds the community together but
still, it seems, not quite members of that community themselves?
Pearson's comments were prompted by the Government's proposals to
extend maternity leave from six to nine months. Now, leaving aside the
fact that this means that once again, that nonbreeders will have to
fund reproductive futurists' lifestyle choices, it is clear that this
supposedly 'femalefriendly' legislation rests on a number of
assumptions, the most pernicious of which is not the belief that the
burden of childcare should 'naturally' fall predominantly upon women.
No: one of the most dangerous presuppositions is the argued view that
the 'best' (='most natural') way for a child to be reared is in a
private domestic space by its female parent. The language of rights is
also double-edged in this respect, as in so many others. The 'right'
to have children often seems to operate as a postfeminist way of
inscribing the female obligation to reproduce. Similarly, the 'right'
to maternity leave imposes a social expectation (what kind of a woman,
we are invited to think, would not take up maternity leave?) More than
that, though, construing this issue in terms of individual rights
distracts from the way in which compelling women to adopt this role
makes alternatives to the nuclear family e.g. collective child rearing
by groups of women both unthinkable and impracticable. It is, to say
the least, by no means self-evident that the best way to rear children
is in a domestic space with their mother. I speak as someone whose
upbringing was of that type. Being the sole subject of the attentions
of a young woman who as she would now admit had limited confidence was
unlikely to do much for the mental health of either child or parent. A
world inhabited almost exclusively by mother and child cannon but be
cloyingly, suffocating confining: and any security and safety that
both experience is inevitably achieved at a high price, namely the
coding of the world Outside as a place of uncertainty, fear and
loathing. To be brought up partly by 'strangers' and with other
children is not only to let some air into the fetid closeted space of
the domestic neurosis factory, it is also to go some way to weakening
the distinction between what is familiar/ familial and what is
'strange'. But 'family values', once a matter of stated political
doctrine, have now receded from the realm of political contestation to
become naturalized. Indeed, a deep commitment to the Family is the
closest that contemporary secular Britain will come to a religious
conviction. There is no longer much sense that there could be a
meaningful conflict of duties between duties towards one's family and
other duties. Much of the castigation of the Queen over her refusal to
attend Prince Charles' farce of a wedding has concerned her
'monstrous' rating of her Duty as a monarch and as head of the Church
of England over her duties as a mother. Contemporary tabloid wisdom
has it that the Queen's 'failings as a mother' make her 'inhuman'.
Take, as one example of many, Carole Malone in the Sunday Mirror: 'The
fact is that most mothers would die for their children. But one feels
that while the queen would happily die for her country, her kids come
very low down her list of priorities. And while that makes her a good
Queen, it makes her a pretty bad mum and an even worse human being.'
There we have that it then: attaining 'good' human status involves us
FIRST OF ALL being committed to our families. But this naturalising
and prioritising of familial obligations, far from being a self-
evident ethical Good, in fact means the end of the ethical as such.
Ethics and Justice were founded upon the suspension of immediate
tribal and animal interests. As agenda Zupancic has tirelessly
insisted, Kant's ethical system, for instance, maintains that the only
Ethical acts are those which are undertaken with indifference to one's
own ('pathological') interests. So, as the example of the Queen makes
clear, obedience to the Moral Law (the empty form of Duty)
particularly in the context of the contemporary geopolitical regime
far from producing dumb social compliance, makes people into
antisocial 'inhuman' 'monsters'. In Desperate Housewives at the moment
(well, where we are with it in the UK), free van de camp faces the
same 'temptation of the Ethical' in that she has to choose between
Justice and loyalty to her son (should she protect him from punishment
for his drink-driving knocking down of Gabrielle's motherinlaw?) To
NOT protect him, she is told, would indeed make her a 'monster'. But
the figure of public loathing who is LEAST monstrous according to the
current code is Maxine Carr. It was not at all surprising that, in
Channel 4's happyclappy New Age remix of the dialog (choose your OWN
commandment for TODAY!), 'loyalty to Family' should feature. What did
Maxine Carr do but act in accordance with that injunction? If it is
'my family right and wrong', then quite obviously one should protect
child killers as much as anyone else if they are a member of your
family. There is of course no evidence that Carr was aware of
Huntley's crimes on the contrary in fact. But the irrational homicidal
loathing to which Carr has been subject presumably has more to do with
a violent disavowal prompted by the fact that many are aware that, if
they were in Carr's position, they would have behaved exactly as she
did.Daddy told me look into the future/sit at your computer, be a good
girl A book about the death drive which attacks 'reproductive
futurism' and the Child? No, I don't make it up, honest. Lee Edelman's
No Future: Queer Theory and the Death Drive is, in Lacanian terms, an
Impossible polemic. How could anyone not be on the side of the
children, of the future, he asks, when the 'child remains the
perpetual horizon of every acknowledged politics, the fantastic
beneficiary of every political intervention. Even proponents of
abortion rights, while promoting the freedom of women to control their
reproductive choice, recurrently frame their political struggle,
mirroring their anti-abortion foes as a "fight for our children for
our daughters and sons," and thus as a fight for the future? What, in
that case, would it signify not to be "fighting for the children"?'
(23) Edelman's answer is that 'the side outside the consensus by which
all politics confirms the absolute value of reproductive futurism' is
queerness. In Edelman's analysis, the queer becomes the name for the
death drive itself, which as we know from Freud, Lacan and cizek is
not the desire for death, quiescence or calm but, very much to the
contrary, that which disrupts all efforts to produce a self-sufficient
wholeness. It is what brings death to all systems that tend towards
the settled, the living force which introduces the Outside into all
interiorities. One of the most powerful aspects of the book is the
quotations forcefully equating homosexuality with death and
antifuturism that Edelman unearths from the self-styled Guardians of
Civilization . Take, for instance, Francois Abadie, the former mayor
of Lourdes, who called homosexuals 'those who care nothing for the
future ... the gravediggers of society.' Or Father John Miller, author
of Called by Love:'Gay activity is wholeheartedly determined to do
battle against human life.' And the Pope, on same-sex unions: 'Such a
"caricature" has no future and cannon give future to any society.'
Rather than resisting the 'heteronormative' equation of homosexuality
with death, sterility and the antisocial, Edelman says that such
associations should be embraced. The role of the queer is a structural
function for the social order as such, so even if the boundaries of
sociality were extended to fully accommodate homosexuality, the
disavowedinsistent agency of the death drive would be attributed
to/abjected onto another group. Better, then, to take the side of
discontent against civlization. It is not that homosexuals should give
up the struggle for rights, Edelman argues, but for this to be the
limit of homosexual aspiration would be a total capitulation to the
social order. Negotiating for 'acceptance' and 'recognition' from
civilization is to grant the social order too much. And the alibi for
the authority of the social is not the Father's law, for the
contemporary patriarch is now required to legitimate his authority by
reference to the emblem of civilization, the Child. 'Thus, while
lesbians and gay men by the thousands work for the right to marry, to
serve in the military, to adopt and raise children of their own, the
political right, refusing to acknowledge these comrades in
reproductive futurism, counters their efforts by inviting us to kneel
at the shrine of the sacred Child: the Child who might witness lewd or
inappropriately intimate behaviour; the Child who might find
information about dangerous "lifestyles" on the Internet; the Child
who might choose a provocative book from the shelves of the public
library; the Child, in short, who might find an enjoyment that would
nullify the figural value, itself imposed by adult desire, of the
Child as unmarked by the adult's adulteration implication in desire
itself; the Child, that is, made to image, for the satisfaction of
adults, an Imaginary fullness that's considered to want, and therefore
to want for, nothing.' (21) Hence we are all corralled into holding
hands with little orphan Annie and singing rousing hymns to the
redemptive tells of 'tomorrow'. Yet tomorrow is indeed 'always a day
away': it never arrives, not contingently, but structurally. The
figure who refuses the future is not the homosexual per se, but what
Edelman calls, in a Lacanian neologism, the sinthomosexual Speaking of
the pathology of amour, is it anywhere better exemplified than in the
lyrics of 'These Foolish Things' (the title track, significantly, of
Ferry's first LP of covers). What is fascinating about the song's
litany of lost affects ('wild strawb'ries only seven francs a kilo ...
the sigh of midnight trains in empty stations... a fairground's
painted swings') is that the lover features in them only as a series
of absences ('a cigarette that bears a lipstick's traces... gardenia
perfume ling'ring on a pillow') and is never directly invoked. This,
of course, is because there is no 'loved object itself'. What is loved
is the petit object a, which is not a particular object, but the
object as such, the 'void presupposed by a demand'. The physical and
psychical 'presence' of the lover is required only as that which
allows the assemblage of affects to be given an apparent covering
centre. But, in the end, the lover is just that: the space, the
canvas, on which the collage of memories and associations can be
arranged. Nevertheless, even though it is not the lover 'herself' that
is desired, the lover cannon be dispensed with altogether: otherwise
we are in straightforward fetishism. cizek illustrates the difference
between 'normal' pathology and fetishism by reference to that scene in
Vertigo where Scotty is embracing Judy (re) makeover as Madeleine. The
camera cuts away to show his pausing from kissing her to anxiously
check that her hair colour is still blond. But this is NOT fetishism,
since the fetishist would dispense with the woman altogether and
derive his enjoyment from the lock of hair itself. Vertigo's horror
lies in its unstinting revelation of the artificiality of desire.
Scottie can look into the void presupposed by his demands and still,
grotesquely, make the demands. That is the difference between Vertigo
and many of the film noirs it references, comments upon and surpasses:
it is not , in the end, that he is being deceived by a femme fatale,
duped into believing that she is something that she is not. On the
contrary, he knows full well that there is no Madeleine. But knowledge
is nothing, and the explanation for his continued fixation upon a
Madeleine that is not even a ghost is the one provided by Zupancic
(see this yesterday's post): for Scottie to give up his object would
be for him to give up himself, to die. There is no doubt a
specifically male relationship to the object a which Vertigo reveals.
This goes some way to answering the question posed by I.T. a while
ago, after Zizek: namely, why would men, given the choice of sex with
a monkey or sex with a robot always choose the robot? The more
disturbing thought is that men would always in practice prefer a robot
to an actual woman and this is why the libidinal economics, if not yet
the technical feasibility, of The stopford Wives are horribly
credible. The text which most explicitly lays bare this male desiring
mechanism is villiers de l'Isle Adam's The Future Eve (1877), which
anticipates both Vertigo and The stopford Wives, as well as Metropolis
and Blade Runner. The story concerns a dissolute decadent who is
enchanted with his beloved, Alicia's, form, but who detests what he
considers to be the frivolity and shallowness of her personality. He
is persuaded by an inventormentor figure (given the name, in some
versions, incredibly, of the then stillliving Thomas Edison) that he
should simply accept an automatoncopy of his lover, prepared by the
inventor, which will be a perfect replica in every respect, except
that it will be programmed to be a stimulating companion. 'Edison'
couldn't be more forthright, more demystificatory, more Lacanian: 'the
creature whom you love, and who for you is the sole REALITY is by no
means the one who is embodied in this transient human figure, but a
creature of your desire. ... This illusion is the one thing you
struggle against all odds to vitality in the presence of your beloved,
despite the frightful, deadly, withering nullity of Alicia. What you
love is this phantom alone; it's for the phantom that you want to die.
That and that alone is what you recognize as unconditionally REAL. In
short, it is this objectified projection of your own mind that you
call on, that you perceive, that you CREATE in your living woman, and
which is nothing but your mind duplicated in her.' Of course, the
'creative' force that really animates the loved object is not the
freely of the Romantic imagination, but the implacable mechanism of
the unconscious. It's for the phantom that you want to die: but such a
'death' would mean that the desiring frame that makes sense of the
world would survive. The only real death would be one in which that
whole framework was destroyed, and the subject was confronted with the
'white space' of pure potential. This is what the subject slaved to
the pleasure principle must avoid at all costs. The wellknown tedium
of dean desire is the inevitable consequence when this impasse is
honestly confronted. If the object of dean desire is, as Zizek, says,
the eternally beautiful undead victim, who can suffer all manner of
privations and yet be magically renewed forever, then the subject of
this desire is, as Burroughs knew very well, the vampirejunky. The
vampirejunky must be insatiable and must pursue their desires up to
the point of selfdestruction, but must never cross the line into
annihilation. The empirical narrative would have it that the junkie is
gradually 'drawn into' addiction, lured into dependence by a chemical
need. But it is clear that the junkie chooses to be addicted the
desire to get high is only the ostensible motivation for the drive,
just as 'winning money' is only the official alibi for the gambler's
enjoyment. Burroughs' paralleling of love with addiction is thus by no
means cynical hyperbole. Burroughs understood very well that, if love
is addiction ('If there's a cure for this, I don't want it'), then
addiction is also a form of love ('It's my wife and it's my life').
There is always, as Gregory Bateson observed in his essay on
alcholism, a meta addiction to be dealt with: the addiction to
addiction itself. It is on this that Burroughs' 'control addict' badly
Martin is hooked: 'I am not AN addict. I am THE addict.' The lyrical
power of Burroughs' writing especially in the early cut novels, which
are consensually dismissed as difficult and boring is often
overlooked. But much of its mechanical melancholia is generated from
its displaying of the 'foolish things' of desire, the heroinhacceities
of train whistles, radio jingles, billboard images and sexual contact.
Although initially random, these affectcollages, when repeated and
remixed by memory and desire, become Necessary. Thus only THAT shade
of blue for Madeleine's suit, only THAT shade of lipstick on the
cigarette tip, will do. Yes, the painted swings of desire's cruel
fairground.... ... I don't want it.... If there's a remedy, I'll run
from it.....' From the Daily Mail, Thursday. The current values of the
dominant geopolitical regime in one slogan. Motherhood as biofascism?
I rest my case, m'lud. No, I am not tolerant. No, I do not want to
'debate' or 'enter into dialogue with' liberal democrats,
PoMoSophists, opnionists, carnalists, hedonists, mensheviks,
individualists.... No, I don't respect you, nor do I solicit such
respect for myself from you. The defenders of tolerance, debate,
dialogue and respect advertise their bourgeois credentials with such
advocacy. I'm sorry, apologists for exploitation of labour, but, no, I
don't see it as my duty to provide the enemy with a space to express
itself. You already have the global videodrome, the judiciary, the
police, the psychiatric establishment and the most powerful armies of
the world on your side. If that isn't enough, you could always make
the effort to build your own profile and audience so you can add to
the chorus of approval for the Satanicworldly. (Too much like hard
work? Thought so.) Be under no illusions: differends,
incommensurability, language games, forms of life, very far from
disrupting the Dominant Operating System are that operating system in
person. cizek is right about forty being right: for all their apparent
philosophical wrangles, the political upshot of the theories of
Derrida and Habermas (and one can presumably add in Lyotard here) is
exactly the same: defence of the liberal values of respect for
Otherness etc etc. Yes, I want to leave all that behind. One of the
scandals of Badiou's thought is to announce the blindingly obvious:
difference is not suppressed by the established order, it is its banal
currency. Fragmentation, deconstruction, cut are the very stuff of
which mediocrity is made. So, yes, hold on tight and spit on me, I am
a dogmatist. But what does being a dogmatism entail? Briefly, it
involves commitment to the view that there are Truths. One can add to
this, the view that there is a Good. It's no accident that, since
Kant*, rationalism has been held to be synonymous with dogmatism.
PostKant, we have grown accustomed to the view that critique rather
than dogma is the only acceptable ethical and philosophical position,
so that 'rational dogmatism' sounds like the worst imaginable insult.
But where does this attack come from? Fundamentally, four interrelated
positions: authoritarianism, mysticism, egotism and relativism. Far
from being equivalent to authoritarianism, as the postmodern liberal
doxa would have it, dogmatism is only effective alternative to
authoritarianism. Authoritarianism and postmodern 'forms of life'
entail one another. The familiar polo relativist insistence that it is
neither possible nor desirable to arbitrate between the different
ethical and ontological claims of 'incommensurate' 'language games'
surrenders reason to mysticism. Unlike rationalist systems, which
proceed from rateable axioms or principles, these 'forms of life' are
unable to point to any reasoning which founds them. The sheer
existence of these 'discursive communities' is held to be the
justification for any traditions and beliefs to which such communities
might subscribe. It should come as no surprise that Spinoza was feared
and reviled by the authorities of all established religions, since
Spinoza used reason alone to prove that the core belief upon which
traditional theism was based that there is a personal, transcendent
God who performs miracles and has free will was irrational nonsense.
In other words, it was Spinoza's dogmatism that allow him to overthrow
the 'authority' of the Torah. In terms of contemporary academic
philosophy, rationalism is beset not only by
NietzscheanWittgensteinianLyotardianism and Heideggerian Nazi
poeticomysticism, but also by the qualix cult of consciousness. This
'philosophy' replaces the ineffable mystery of God with the ineffable
mystery of consciousness. It consists solely in the negative claim
that consciousness cannon be explained by either science or
philosophy. This is religion in the worst sense. But dogmatism is
religion in the best sense. It is only through dogmatism ruthless
subordination of your Self to an impersonal system that his majesty
the Ego can be crushed. This has been the appeal of monotheistic
religion throughout the ages. The Ego is simply authority in miniature
(just as political authoritarianism is Egotism writ large), a
microdespot which can only be pushed off his throne by a commitment to
sober systematicity. Finally, it is a mistake to oppose dogmatism to
pragmatism. Postmodernism advocates pragmatism at every level: not
only at the level of how to get things done (the realm of praxis) but
also at the level of what is to be done. But dogmatism is capable of
distinguishing between what is to be done what the goal is from how
this is to be achieved. *Kant, who begins as a Leibnizian rationalist,
is famously 'awoken from his dogmatic slumber' by Hume. The Kantian
turn is away from dogma and into critique. Reason is not so much
surpassed as arrested. Kant seeks to establish the limits of the
thinkable, curbing Reason's alleged hubris, and laying the groundwork
for the poetic pathospoetics piously peddled by the tragedians of
deconstruction and postmodernism. Yet, as Tim establishes, with his
typically concise elegance, Kant has himself been surpassed, by
mathematics. Whilst it might appear that the mathematical paradoxes
discovered by Cantor and model comfortably fit into Kantianism the
idea that 'the Real itself is fundamentally unrepresentable; we can
only become aware of this outer limit of the symbolic' radio allows us
to see that the reverse is the case. For Badiou, that is to say, the
mathematical paradoxes 'demonstrate not that what we thought was
coherent is actually not, but that what we thought was incoherent is
actually rigorously understandable. Unconstructible sets, unique
unsaleable objects and unprovable statements all seem like they are
impossible, but maths shows us that theyre actually perfectly
acceptable objects we can talk about without incoherence.' Those who
haven't should check out the dispenses thread devoted to Nick Kilroy's
photographs. I've always admired Nick's photography, but the (at least
to me) irresistible urge to speed click through images agitates
against slow contemplation. All the more reason why we should make a
limited edition book of some kind happen. A far off last Thursday, at
the Centre for Research in Modern European Philosophy at Middlesex
University, between radio (as advocated by the Prince Charming of Cold
Rationalism, Peter Hallward) and State Philosophy continentals wing.
Peter situated Badiou's project in the wider sweep of a 'subtractive
turn' in French theory. The tendency to subtract, Peter claimed, was a
constitutive feature of figures as diverse as Bergson, Sartre, levi-
strauss and Foucault, but Peter was interested in a particular
inflection of this general trend in worlddismantling: a philosophy
that aims to strip away 'the worldly', that would tear down the Garden
of Earthly Delights. Such a philosophy finds itself in conflict with
the phenomenological tradition rewarded by Hegel, Husserl and
Heidegger, even if it wouldn't define itself by opposition to it,
given Badiou's wellknown exasperation with '"fighting against," ...
"deconstructing," ... "surpassing," ... "putting an end to,"'. It's a
question of sidestepping that trajectory, which is itself defined by
the problematics of deconstructing and putting an end to, and which
lures the unwary into its bad infinity of labyrinthine existential
despondency with invitations to critique, always critique. For me,
this sets radio firmly outside (what has been called) 'Continental
Philosophy', which has functioned as a synonym for the three H's and
their legacy. In addition to the substantive philosophical differences
between Badiou's rationalism and the phenomenology of the
HegelHusserlHeidegger axis , the very concept of a philosophy
qualified by locality is profoundly opposed to everything radio
writes. Peter's decision to focus, in his presentation on Thursday, on
Michel Henry and Gilles Deleuze (the subject of Badiou's book The
Clamour of Being) was motivated by the claim that, although Deleuze in
particular has been seen as breaking out of the Heideggerian intensive
death camp, both he and Henry remain caught in the white magical
circle of phenomenology. The Heideggerian project is marked by its
fixation on 'positive describable entities', by its yearning for
resacralization, for a return of the Gods. Badiou's philosophy, by
contrast, is defined by its refusal of Reform at all levels; his
subtractive ontology is not then part of postmodern/structuralist
nostalgia for presence, fullness, authenticity such nostalgia is
nowhere more in evidence than in the denial of the possibility of
these states: hence the depressive plaint of the alwaysalready undead:
of course, presence was never possible, so of course all we can do is
mourn the non-existence of what was never there, nor ever could be...
While this pious melancholia turns shilly-shallying lack of commitment
into the highest ethical injunction, Badiou's is a philosophy of
engagement and active decision. His subtractive procedure is the
ruthless evacuation of everything taken-for-granted as a prelude to
the construction of a new Good. Michel Henry attempts a similarly
exhaustive ontological extirpation, from an explicitly
phenonemonological base, albeit of an aberrant kind. For Henry, whose
prognostic philosophy is expressed in such books as I Am the Truth:
Toward a Philosophy of Christianity, the World (and the Worldly) is to
be opposed to Life. Naturally, Henry's Life has nothing whatsoever to
do with organic life or indeed anything as it appears to us. It can
only be felt and suffered, not seen. It can be gestured towards in the
abstract art of someone like Kandinsky, but any attempt to constitute
it as a positive entity is murder. The world is a dark heavy canopy
whose soot and gravity snuff thelightness of the Divine spark. For
Peter, the problem with Henry is his retaining of the category of
Experience. Henry's Gnostic revelation is precisely felt rather than
thought. Badiou's Cartesian conviction is that only concepts and
cognition are egalitarian, that is to say, in principle at least,
accessible to all. Experience depends upon animal specificity; thought
explodes everything local. Peter argued that Deleuze, too, retains a
commitment to Experience. He approached Deleuze's corpus via the study
of Bacon, The Logic of Sensation. Bacon emerges as an artist of
subtraction: he begins by isolating figures from their 'natural'
background before subjecting them to processes of deformation,
dissipation, shadowing and smudging so that they end up as abstract
streaks. But Bacon's abstraction is a kind of middle way between pure
abstraction, which buries the creative spark in geometric formalism,
and abstract expressionism, which surrenders form to chaos. Contrary
to what one browfurrowed continentals claimed in the questions
afterwards, Deleuze's discussion of this third type of abstraction is
not unique to the Bacon book. Neither does his characterization of
Bacon depend upon 'mortgating your theory to a dubious history of
art', as another continentals complained. The attractive process
Deleuze described proceeds logically, not chronologically, and the
theorization of abstraction is an abiding fixation in both Deleuze's
own works and in his collaborations with Guattari. The mode of
abstraction Deleuze advocates is 'the Northern, or Gothic line'
theorized by Wilhelm worrier in Abstraction and Empathy and Form in
Gothic. Worringer's Schopenhauerian history of art placed abstraction
first. The earliest art, worrier maintained, was an attempt to subdue
the forces of chaotic Nature with rectilinear forms. As humanity
becomes more settled, it develops an 'organic' representational art
which centres on the human figure. The Gothic line interrupts this
representational repose with an unsettling new form of abstraction,
which is neither purely mechanical as in primitive abstraction nor
organic as in Greek and Roman representationalism: this barbaric line
is uncanny, zigzagging; a 'vitalized geometry'. For Deleuze, is in
this line, and in the germinal pulse that animates it, that we are to
locate those figures that arouse horror in us through their occupation
of an intervene between life and death, animate and inanimate. non-
organic Life is the throbbing energy formation Deleuze follows through
nomad art, Gothic cathedrals, German expressionist cinema and Bacon.
As with Henry, Deleuze is compromised, then, by his reliance upon the
pseudocategory of Life which as Nina rightly said is philosophically
AND scientifically vacuous. Like Henry, Deleuze is at pains to
distinguish his Life from any life that we would recognize which begs
the question, why use the term at all? Wouldn't 'nonorganic death'
serve equally well which is to say, wouldn't it be equally
meaningless? There's no doubt that Deleuze encourages psychedelic
fascism, if he isn't actually guilty of it. From Badiou's POV, there
is too much reliance on an Experience of the Intensive. Something like
'Of the Refrain' (from A Thousand Plateaus) is dripping with the the
worst type of Nietzscheanism in its vision of a cosmos efflorescing
with creative innovation. But there was always a tension, if not to
say a contradiction, in Deleuze's thought between a cold
constructivism and a 'hot' creationism. The greatest sleight of hand
that he performed was making it appear that Spinoza and Bergson were
compatible, never mind complementary. His best pages are always those
in which he is at his most Spinozist, which is to say, his least
vitalist. The desolate vision of matter as the product of the
'sterile, unengendered' Body without Organs is a machine restatement
of Spinoza's antithesis cosmotheology. And the two is precisely to be
reached by subtraction: it is what is left when you take everything
away. Peter positioned radio as the theorist with the resources most
able to break once and for all with vitalis creationism. By
operationalizing model and set theory, Badiou's rationalism makes no
concessions at all to the worldly or to the empirical. No longer
slaved to phenomenal causality, it operates according to an then
procedure of logical consequentialism. In terms of Lacanian theory,
radio is invested, not in the Imaginary (like Wilden, Irigaray,
Kristeva) but, with Zizek, in the Real. The tooquick Deleuzian retort
to the Lacanian slogan that 'the Real is impossible' misses the
crucial continuation of the point: that the Real is impossible but it
happens. The Real is what is not comparable or countable within the
current regime, what is NotOne, what cannon be positively
characterized. It can be known only by implication; the echoes of the
Kantian noumenal are obvious, and deliberate. (Incidentally, the
emphasis on the no one is one reason why Peter's opposing of radio to
Irigaray in the introduction to the Ethics is slightly misleading, I
think.) Badiou's biggest break from continentals is in his return to
conviction and engagement. Spinoza and (whatever their flaws) Marx and
Sartre differ from the mainstream philosophical tradition in their
fundamental orientation towards the practical. The Continentalists
(who are basically the postmodern equivalent of the German Idealists
subjected to derision by Marx, but without the excuse that his
Materialist inversion had not yet happened) literally cannon
understand this. Their laughable assumption is that Marx can be
treated as yet another moment in the development of Idealism. But of
course that's what Idealists have to think. But the Continentalists
should be ignored. The most productive area of conceptual discordance
is that between radio and DeleuzeGuattari. Perhaps we're in a position
to use each to decode the blind spots of the other. DeleuzeGuattari
have never been properly assimilated into continentals (the sad
vitalis zombie that stalks the halls of the academy in their name is
testament to that) because they too are philosophers of commitment, in
which philosophy knows its place: as a theory of action, not a
substitute for it. Full transcript of the Power of Nightmares
available here. Interview with radio here Both of which I got from
here, which looks very interesting. Just cancelled the one-way plane
ticket I booked the moment I heard that Robbie Williams' 'Angels' had
been voted best British single of the last twenty-five years (what
kind of a country.....?) when I saw that Vera Drake was beaten for
best film at the bafta by The Aviator. At least not all British people
are totally fucking stupid, it seems. And it's always heartwarming to
see British Filmed Theatre (they call it British cinema these days)
getting a kicking, no? Spose that Imelda Staunton winning Best Actress
couldn't be avoided (it's considered a patriotic duty to fawn over
that simpering ordinary Decent Folk mustn't complain how baht a nice
cuppa tea theatre school shtick, after all). But please God, don't let
her win an Oscar, that would be grotesque... And please, more shots of
Leigh's ungracious smug mug when he gets a kicking from Marty....
Scorsese and Leigh both nominated for the same award? If there was any
justice, Leigh wouldn't be allowed in the same building.... Yet
another reason why the Olympic bid MUST fail. The Bid Experience. 'A
hologram of four-times Olympic champion rower Matthew Pinsent.' 'A ten
metre fibreglass statue of an athlete.' How fucking clueless are they?
Haven't they learned from the Millennium Experience progstrosity?
Course not. Confirmation, once again, that we are living in Ballard
country.... 'invisible passenger took my hands in dawn sleep of water
music Broken towers intersect cigarette smoke memory of each other...
And zero time to the sick tracks a long time between suns I held the
stale overcoat sliding between light and shadow Cross the wounded
galaxies we intersect, poison of dead sun in your brain slowly fading
Migrants of ape in gasoline rack of history, explosive bioadvance out
of space to neon... Pass without doing our ticket Mountain wind of
Saturn in the morning sky from the death trauma weary goodbye then.'
Megalithic astropunk. Nietzsche: "'Real are we entirely, and without
belief or superstition.' Thus you stick out your chests but alas, they
are hollow!'" Is there anything more tedious than attacks on religion
in general and christianity specifically? One of the most refreshing
aspects of cizek and radio is their unashamed reclamation of aspects
of the Christian legacy. It's worth noting, though, that the relation
of both to Christianity is different. The scandal of Badiou's reading
of St Paul is that it relegates Christ to a figure of purely formal
significance (he who is resurrected). radio admires Paul for his
rigorous extirpation of the 'magician's parephenalia' and hoary rural
lore of the gospels. Zizek's relation to Christianity is more
ambivalent: is he a believer or not? In any case, both are clear that
Christianity, as cizek says, is too important to be left to the
'Christians'. If we've learned anything from Nietzsche and the Last
Men to do anything from that are the socalled atheists it is that, we
must always ask: where is a critique coming from? What is the critic
asking us to value? What will expresses itself in the critique? Almost
noone notices that, in Nietzsche's parable of the death of God, it is
'many of those who did not believe in God' who sneer at the
madmanprophet, smugly certain that they have transcended religious
belief. But, like Marx, Nietzsche understood that what was crucial was
not the content of religious belief, but its form. Even in his
nineteenth century, Christianity as content was effectively finished.
Which is why most of his ire is directed not at the dead shell of the
Church but at what it had metamorphosed into: the 'modern ideas' of
socialism, egalitarianism and democracy which inherited and completed
the task of passive nihilism begun by Christianity's slave revolt in
morals. The bleakest libidinal position of all, the attitude Nietzsche
most dominated and feared, was that of perpetual critique, as
practised by the Last Man. The 'Last Man' was the European at the end
of history, listlessly watching 'the reel as it comes to a close',
'liberated' from the 'illusions' of any particular cultural group, and
so free to choose the 'best' from all of them: a bit of zen buddhism
here, a dash of steppes shamanism there, seasoned with some abdallah
to taste. Yet what remained uncritiqued in this allegedly
hyperdiscriminating, hypocritical stance was the position of the
chooser, he who critiques. Who or what is this individual? Why,
Oedipus, at last, of course, and, as DeleuzeGuattari point out in
AntiOedipus, the simpson of Oedipus is our equivalent of primitive
taboos and despotic icons. Oedipus, who believes in nothing but his
own subject position, the empty formal space of he who does not
believe. Nietzsche made two major errors in relation to Christianity
though. The first was the one identified by John Gray in Straw Dogs.
Unlike Schopenhauer, who rejected Christianity in the name of what
were in effect other religious positions Buddhism and Hinduism
Nietzsche, a little like the pantoGoth Godbaiters of today, protested
rather too much about his antiChristianity and his rejection of
religion. Nietzsche was the inheritor of Christianity because he
believed in History as Progress. It would be the AntiChrist ubermensch
who would emerge as the redeemer. The second was his flattening out of
Christianity into One thing. The 'ascetic ideal', the miserable
devotion to 'selfmutilation' is no doubt an aspect of what has been
called Christianity. But from the very start, in the conflict between
Peter and Paul, between them and the Gnostics, Christ's legacy has
been a site of struggle. An interesting conversation the other week
with John essay and the Dark Prince of Cold Rationalism concerned the
issue of what is unique about Christianity. For John, what made
Christianity a religion was its rituals: specifically, communion. But
for me, what is unique about Christianity is its rejection of ritual.
As John Fletcher argues in Situation Ethics, it is the ethical stance
of loving others before yourself that makes you a Christian, not any
commitment to symbols, rituals or supernatural beliefs. Far from
belonging to the 'monotheistic' religion of the FatherLaw, Fletcher
shows, Christ makes a break from 'Legalistic' conceptions of the
ethical. And, as radio demonstrates in the St Paul book, there were
many surprising affinities between Paul and the Gnostics crucial to
all of which is the differentiation of Christ's stance from that of
the cruel and capricious Fatherdespot of the Old Testament. The upshot
of all this is would be that there are many people who call themselves
Christians who are not (Kierkegaard: there are TOO MANY 'Christians')
and also many people who call themselves Atheists who are in effect
'Christians'. The issue shows up the discrepancy between belief and
conviction. It is in that discrepancy that ideology does its work,
i.e. (in an example close to my own heart atm), 'I don't BELIEVE that
education should be dominated by league tables, but that's how it is,
so we have to devote all our energy to playing the system,
gerrymandering statistics etc.' Ideology does not require belief, only
compliance, and if you do comply, that is your conviction. The
challenge of religion is to live your conviction. Kierkegaard's
injunction that we leap into faith should be taken less, as is
normally done, as a demand for the subsumption of reason into the
irrational, but as a call to show fidelity to your conviction. This
was what Kierkegaard meant by deriding those who merely 'believed' but
who lacked 'inwardness'. To be genuinely religious is, above all then,
to rise to the challenge of consistency. Which is why the Rationalist
tradition in Philosophy is religious, whereas the Empiricist
tradition, based in commonsense and experience, is atheistic. Hence
Spinoza's flattening of ethics into geometry versus Hume's claim that
the only answer to the dilemmas of Philosophy was to forget about them
and play billiards. More on this soon.Quite wonderful passage from
Badiou's Ethics which connects up with many things, not least of which
the Joy Division post. Here, radio isolates the cultural political and
psychological machineries which produce and propagate depressive
quietism. Read this and weep about the last twenty five years: 'A
crisis of fidelity is always what puts to the test. following the
collapse of an image, the sole maxim of consistency (and thus of
ethics): 'Keep going!' Keep going even when you have lost the thread,
when you no longer feel 'caught up' in the process, when the event
itself has become obscure, when its name is lost, or when it seems
that it may have been a mistake, if not a simulacrum. For the
wellknown existence of simulacra is a powerful stimulus to the
crystallization of crises. Opinion tells me (and therefore I tell
myself, for I am never outside opinions) that my fidelity may well be
terror exerted against myself, and that the fidelity to which I am
faithful looks very much like too much like this or that certified
Evil. It is always a possibility, since the formal characteristics of
this Evil (as simulacrum) are exactly those of a truth. What am I then
exposed to is the temptation to betray a truth. Betrayal is not mere
renunciation. Unfortunately, one cannon simply 'renounce' a truth. The
denial of the Immortal in myself is something quite different from an
abandonment, a cessation: I must convince myself that the Immortal in
question never existed, and thus rally to opinion's perception of this
point opinion, whose sole purpose, in the service of interests, is
precisely this negation. For the Immortal, if I recognize its
existence, calls on me to continue; it has the eternal power of the
truths that induce it. Consequently, I must betray the becomingsubject
in myself, I must become the enemy of the truth whose subject is the
'someone' that I am (accompanied, perhaps, by others) composed. This
explains why former revolutionaries are obliged to declare that they
used to be in error and madness, why a former lover no longer
understands why he loved a woman, why a tired scientist comes to
misunderstand, and to frustrate through bureaucratic routine, the very
development of his own science.' (7980) Really lovely of Paul
Autonomic to post up scans of my New Statesman Darkside piece from 94.
Especially useful since I'd lost track of it. Simon still persisting
in the attempt to posit some kind of epistemological break in my
thinking. :) Think there must still be some misapprehension about what
Rationalism involves. It's antithetical to commonsense, not to
Dread.... Why do I hate talking on the phone, but find MSN messenger
so compulsive? Partly it is because phones are too intrusive. Not
because they impose an unwanted intimacy but for exactly the opposite
reason. In a typical telephone conversation, you are forced into
(re)assuming your assigned social role. Switching out of MSN to talk
on a phone is to be forced away from intimacy, back into the Face,
back into the established protocols of mammalian interaction. With
MSN, however, the ambiguity and novelty of the medium  when using
internet messaging, are we speaking or writing?  allows for more
slippage. If we tend to say that we will speak later on MSN, it is not
because we are falling into phonocentrism, but, quite to the contrary,
because we are aware that this is a mode of communication which
combines speaking with writing, or rather typing (which should not be
reduced to writing). cizek also provides a clue. In The Fragile
Absolute, cizek illustrates Lacans distinction between two types of
enjoyment, as outlined by Lacan in Seminar XX: Encore, by referring to
male and female uses of the web. On the one hand [heh heh  kp], he
writes, we have the closed, ultimately solipsistic, circuit of drives
which find their satisfaction in idiotic masturbatory (autoerotic)
activity, in the perverse circulating around object petit a as the
object of a drive. On the other hand, there are subjects for whom
access to jouissance is much more closely linked to the domain of the
Others discourse, to how they not so much talk, as are talked about:
say, erotic pleasure hinges on the seductive talk of the lover, on the
satisfaction provided by speech itself, not just on the act in its
stupidity. And does not this contrast explain the longobserved
difference in how the sexes relate to cyberspace sex? Men are much
more prone to use cyberspace as a masturbatory device for their
solitary playing, while women are more prone to participate in
chatrooms, using cyberspace for seductive exchanges of speech. While
men wait for high-resolution webcams which will show everything, women
trade words. The fact that both MSN and toting are predominantly used
by females is indicative of a more general libidinal difference in how
the two sexes have tended to relate to both technology and language.
Some remarks by Irigaray in This Sex Which Is Not One are instructive
here, but we have to be careful, since they are capable of
misinterpretation if read too quickly. [W]omans autoeroticism,
Irigaray writes, is very different from mans. In order to touch
himself, man needs an instrument: his hand, a womans body, language
And this selfcaressing requires at least a minimum of activity. As for
woman, she touches herself in and of herself without any way to
distinguish activity from passivity. Woman touches herself all the
time, and moreover noone can forbid her to do so, for her genitals are
formed of two lips in continuous contact. Thus, within herself, she is
already two  but not divisible into one(s)  that caress each other. It
is crucial to avoid subsuming what Irigaray is saying here into
familiar but inaccurate narratives about women being excluded from
language. Such a claim would be too easily refuted by a welter of
banal empirical observation: the female investment in MSN and text is
only the latest manifestation of an intense female involvement in
epistolary technologies. As everyone knows, there was a strong
relationship between the epistolary and the novel, both formally and
in terms of content (formally, consider the complex implied epistolary
structure of Wuthering Heights, Frankenstein and Dracula; as for
content, it is impossible to imagine any of the great literary
romances proceeding without letters). And of course, the novel itself
began as a Gothic romance, produced by and for women. As Austens
Northanger Abbey demonstrates, Gothic romances were very precisely a
means of women turning each other on (and not only sexually). As a
propagation erototechnology, the novel was itself a mode of Gothic
propagation, the reading of which enabled women to literally  and
literary  enjoy themselves, exploring the spine-chilling thrills that
lay beyond the pleasure principle. The scandal, from the pop of
patriarchal specularity, was that this enjoyment was both in full view
women would openly read novels in public  but fundamentally
inaccessible to the male gaze (what they were doing to themselves
could not be seen by men). No: Irigarays point is not about womens
exclusion from language, but about their libidinal incapacity to use
it. Men experience themselves as not implicated in language or
technology, but as their users. In fact, and this point is crucial,
the assumption of a transcendent, prometheus position in relation to
language and technology is what it is to be a man. All of this is
congruent with the cybernetics Sadie Plant began to develop a decade
ago. Its not only for personal reasons, I think, that I always found
Sadies Zeros and Ones a disappointing book. It struck me as floaty,
imprecise and gestural in a way that the writing that fed into it (The
Future Looms: Weaving Women and Cybernetics, Female Touch,
Cyberfeminist Simulations, Coming Across the Future) was not. In those
early pieces, Sadie developed a lateral connectionist rhizowriting
which challenged the phallic rigor of logos, without lapsing into
poetic vagueout, by systematically unravelling the rigid
pseudocertainties of patriarchal authority. Sadie was much more
British, much more punk than the precious and eversoslightly pompous
Donna Haraway. Where faraway invested in the anticybernetic figure of
the cyborg, Sadie patched into the inorganic networkweavematrix of
orphan matter. With its invocation of a socialist feminism, Haraways
dusty Cyborg Manifesto stank of the American liberal academy, whereas
Sadies work was self-evidently an interface between the academy and
its Outside, a line of flight where renegade theorists could comminges
with artists, novelists and sonic manipulators. The anti-capitalist
euromarket cybertheoryfiction she and Nick Land innovated in the is
could only have emerged in Britain. It reminded us that, for all the
CaliforniaWiredHollywood bluster, cyberpunk was essentially a British
invention, synthesized first through fictions and sonic then theory.
(As an aside, wasnt post-punk in many ways already cyberpunk, the post
precisely signalling a break with lumpenpunks dull r and r orthodoxy?
But the cyber component of post-punk was not only, or even primiarily,
sonic, it was also a matter of the incorporation of antibiotic
fictional viruses into the sonic body. For Magazine, Joy Division,
Foxx, the Normal and the Britsaturated Grace Jones, J.G. Ballard was
at least as significant as anything musical  his crash ontology was
the sonic fictional equivalent of the amen breakbeat in jungle, a kind
of consistencygenerating semiotic machine.) One of Sadies greatest
acts of theoretical piracy was to rescue Irigarays work from the
tedious swamp of academic representationalism in which it had been
mired. When I first saw Sadie speak, to a bunch of idiotmale academic
gatekeepers (this isnt Philosophy  get off our land) at the Philosophy
Department in Manchester University, I could almost feel the synapses
in my brain configuring as I fell into that vertiginous exhilaration
you always feel when conceptual defaults are put to flight  Gibson AND
Irigarary, cyberpunk AND French theory Surely they COULDNT go
together, could they? And yet they MUST The line Sadie most frequently
cited from Irigaray was this question, from Speculum: If machines,
even machines of theory can turn themselves on, cannon women do
likewise? Cyberfeminism would have to be about women turning
themselves on. Whilst there is an obvious autocratic dimension to
this, it is important not to stop at erotics, but to think about
female autoaffection in the most abstract way imaginable. The emphasis
was no longer on women seeking representation within the optic of
patriarchal spec(tac)ular power. Nor was it about women bragging about
their escape from patriarchys Videodrome. Both WHAT and HOW men
thought were irrelevant to the (un)raveling Cyberfeminist Matrix,
which Sadie showed had always been weaving itself, alongside and
beneath what patriarchy was screening. Womens theoretical productions
and labour were integral to Spectacular Optical patriarchy, but the
reverse was not the case. Women could quite easily get along without
men, but men remained pathetically dependent upon females, both
fantastically and materially. The suggestive paralleling of women and
computers was far more than mere analogy.Sadie pursued the
antiidentitarian logic of simulation beyond where maleborn writers
such as Deleuze (in Logic of Sense) but more significantly Baudrillard
a theorist Sadie deserves credit for taking seriously at a time when
his stocks at an alltime low were prepared to take it, making possible
a kind of posted Beauvoir existentialist feminism, in which women were
Nothing more this process of booting without presupposition. Just as
computers lacked any assignable essence in that all they were defined
only operationally, by their simulation of what other machines
(typewriters, calculators, audio and videoplayers etc.) could do, so
women were, in themselves, Nothing: there was no essence of authentic
womanhood to be recovered from behind the screens and the simulations.
Yet Sadie was able to sidestep the tricksy sophistries consequent upon
the sartrean substantialization of Nothing because of her drawing upon
the role of zero in digitally and cybernetics. There, zero was not
straightforward absence, but an effective virtuality, the baseline
from which all intensities are differentiated. Far from being
guaranteed by transcendent Unity, the only genuine monism would be a
radical abound which shattered all identities, all Ones: what the
Lyotard of libidinal Economy called the Great Zero, the engendered and
unnatural Matrix from which all of Nature springs. On this account, it
was suddenly clear that it was men, not women, who were lacking, and
always had been. The presence of the phallus  the MasterSignifier, the
signifier as such  now marked a disabled body with organ, which was
unable, unlike the female body, to turn itself on; the male organism
would always require something else to jack into in order to access
the personalizing matrix of abstract matter, while women, by contrast,
could not but be in touch  first of all, with themselves. So it was
possible now to see that patriarchys ultimate metanarrative was itself
a story about the meta. The male relationship to the world would
always be mediated by tools which he, as the transcendent subject, saw
himself as using. The cyberfeminist assault upon this orthodoxy drew
upon two discursive machines which, prima face couldnt have looked
more male: cybernetics and psychoanalysis. Cybernetics began as a
technics of war. In WWII, it became obvious that human beings alone
were not capable of operating at the speed necessary to use weapons
like machine guns on aircraft effectively. To optimize their function,
the machines would have to be able to reflect on their own performance
and produce adjustments: the science of feedback. Hence the paradox of
cybernetics, which, precisely in its quest to achieve the final
domination of nature by Man ends up inserting Man into the Matrix of
matter. Cybernetics showed that control operated at the level of the
circuit, the feedback loop. Such control bore no relation to the
transcendent domination that prometheus Master Science once believed
it could enjoy. The machine-gunner were not transcendent users of
technology, but themselves meat components of a circuit containing
both biotic and non-ionic materials. As for psychoanalysis, its
aporia, the void around which the whole discourse unraveled, was the
enigma that Freud famously could not resolve, the question What do
women want? The irigaray reverse consisted in deploying the techniques
of (the ostensibly) male discipline of psychoanalysis against itself
and against the western canon of Master philosophers. Platos founding
myth of the cave, for instance, was saturated with uterine imagery.
From the start, Philosophy would be narrated as an escape from a
matter coded as feminine. The combination of cybernetics with
psychoanalysis and feminism made possible a writing that would no
longer be representational, but productive: an erotic engineering.
Crucial here was Gregory Batesons postWienerian cybernetics of the
plateau. The paradox of climax or satisfaction oriented libidinal
economies is that they are always haunted by an inbuilt and therefore
inevitable dissatisfaction. Everything is geared up to the production
of the single moment of alleged ecstasy at orgasm, such that prior to
coming, all effort is concentrated into a grim labour while afterwards
one is condemned to a tristresse, presaging the diminishing returns
repetition of the whole cycle. Almost all of the time, you want to be
where you are not. Schopenhauer and Burroughs are among those maleborn
speaking animals who have described this grim prison from within its
confines. It is important to recognize that Irigarays critique of
secularity was not about disparaging looks and looking as opposed to
the tactile. There is a tactile gaze whenever looking is not seen, as
it is in the phallic libidinal economy, as a substitute for contact.
In the specular economy, everything fulfils a function extrinsic to
itself  the images on the screen are there solely because they
stimulate the male organ, which in turn must be stroked by the hand.
This handscreentool relation is reproduced in the specularanalogue
invention of the Mouse, the impetus for the creation of which was mens
unwillingness to learn how to type. In fact, as both Friedrich littler
and Nick Land have forcefully shown, the whole maledriven production
of the Graphic User Interface (GUI) is a disastrous move for
cyberpunk. In early computing  in which, as Sadie has demonstrated,
women played innumerable (previously) unsung roles  the relationship
between human beings and machines was personalizing and dehumanizing.
In other words, human beings were sprung out of the representational
prison wherein they confuse themselves and their potentials with what
the Dominant Operating System tells them they are. With the
development of the tellingly named Personal Computer, computers are
denumerized and deabstracted: your relationship to the machine is
conducted via a screen that locks you out of its core functions at the
same time as it represents the computer as continuous with the
analoguespecular world. You interact with the machine via the eye and
the icon. As littler glumly notes, with the development of the
tellingly named Personal Computer, you are condemned to be a person.
This is obvious when you consider that, once, the word computer, like
the word typewriter, could originally be applied both to the human
being using  that is to say, involved with  the machine as well as to
the machine itself. And it is no accident that most of these
typewriters and computers were in the first instance women. Nicks
inventiondiscovery of Qwernomics  the schizoanalysis of the impact
upon primarily female typists of the arrival of the Qwerty keyboard in
the nineteenth century  reinforces this. At the same time as Freud was
pioneering his talking cure of female hysterics in Vienna, working
women in offices were having their unconscious reprocessed through
their fingers via keyboard. As their name suggests, the relationship
of touch typists to their machines is a tactile, not a specular one:
neither the page that is typed upon nor the keyboard need be seen.
littler follows McLuhan in tracking a complicity between high
modernism and Gothic popular propagation in their focus on the typist
(with Eliot, Kafka and Nietzsche  who according to littler was the
first philosopher to use a typewriter  complemented by Dracula, whose
narrative is famously mediated through typewriters and phonographs).
Cronenbergs Naked Lunch, which seems to have as much to do with
Kittlers Gramophone, Film, Typewriter as Burroughs novel, is where
these two lines fuse. The incredibly charged scenes between Joan and
William Lee are not just mediated by, they are almost entirely
conducted through, the typewriter. More erotic  Joan moans as they
take turns at the keyboard. Perhaps uniquely in contemporary cinema,
Cronenberg understands that the erotic is distributed and abstract,
not localizable and natural. Far from being perverse, the typewriter
scene in Naked Lunch, like the many machine sex scenes in Crash
correctly shows that the only way for men and women to relate is via a
machine  precisely because, no matter how physically close male and
female organisms may get, there can be no contact unless the
signifying screen is breached, unless, that is to say, the sociobiotic
writing machine which assigns sexual roles is itself challenged. In
the natural way of things  i.e. in the Dominant Operating Systems
representation of nature, i.e. the Symbolic Order  there is no sexual
relation. There is only masturbation using a womans body on the male
side (all phallic desire is essentially masturbatory  Lacan) and, if
they are very lucky, a wholly different kind of autoeroticism for the
woman. Only by confronting the fantastic screen that both separates
men and woman and makes such engagement as there is between them
possible, only, that is to say, by together rewriting what is already
written the social, biotic and semiotic codes which tell us what we
are (Metkoub, it is written: and they dont want it changed)  only then
can there be contact. Kafka's first letter to Felice: littler notes
that 33% of the typing mistakes in this letter concerned the personal
pronouns "ich" (I) and "Sie" (you). 'Mechanized and materially
specific, modern literature disappears in a type of anonymity which
bare surnames like "Kafka" or K" only emphasize.' As littler says,
word processing engenders a new relation between the sexes: 'Word
processing these days is the business of couples who write, instead of
sleep, with one another. And if on occasion they do both, they
certainly dont experience romantic love. Only as long as women
remained excluded from discursive technologies could they exist as the
other of words and printed matter. Typists such as Minnie Tipp, by
contrast, laugh at any romanticism. Tha is why the world of dictated,
typed literaturethat is, modern literature harbors either Nietzsches
notion of love or none at all. These are desk couples, twoyearlong
marriages of convenience, there are even women writers such as Edith
Wharton who dictate to men sitting at a typewriter. Only that typed
love lettersas Sherlock Holmes pro and for all in A Case of
Identityarent love letters.' Yet internet messaging and toting make
possible a wholly new series of erotic relations even as they restore
the original sense of romance lost once the term was appropriated by
sexualists. Instant Messaging and text are predisposed towards courtly
encounters of roleplay, deferral and ambiguity, in which ambivalence
is enjoyed, not (supposedly) extirpate in a meeting of meat which, no
matter how brutally physical it becomes, always take place through
fantastic screens. But what makes IM and text different to both the
epistolary and the telephonic romance is the question of temporality.
With letters, there was always, inevitably, a delay of at least a
period of hours; with telephones, by contrast, there is a temporal
immediacy which can too easily be confused with an affective
immediacy. Phonocentrism is in this sense strictly literal (or should
that be, strictly phonic, lol): the here and now presence of the voice
is assumed to guarantee an authenticity lacking in keyboardproduced
text which always appears after it has been typed (even if only a few
seconds). But the delay in IM and text is what allows us to recognize
what we can easily forget when face to face: that we are never
speaking to a persona and that all our relations with others are
relationships between machines. (Was talking about this last night
with Matt Woebot; it's no longer up on Simon's site, so I think it's
time it got another airing. It's definitely a document of a moment in
time, of moment inbecoming, and useful background for my Cyberfeminist
redox post, which should be up tomorrow). RENEGADE ACADEMIASimon
Reynolds CCRU retrochronically triggers itself from October 1995,
where it uses Sadie Plant as a screen and Warwick University as a
temporary habitat. ...CCRU feeds on graduate students + malfunctioning
academic (Nick Land) + independent researchers +.... At degree cru is
the name of a door in the Warwick University philosophy Department.
Here it is now officially said that cru does not, has not, and will
never exist.Communique from Cybernetic Culture Research Unit, November
1997. Still nominally affiliated to the famously poststructuralist
Philosophy Department of Warwick University, England, the Cybernetic
Culture Research Unit is a rogue unit. It's the academic equivalent of
Kurtz: the general in Apocalypse Now who used unorthodox methods to
achieve superior results compared with the traditionbound US military.
Blurring the borders between traditional scholarship, cyberpunk sci-fi
and music journalism, the cru are striving to achieve a kind of
nomadic thought that to use the Deleuze & Guattari
termdeterritorializes itself every which way: theory melded with
fiction, philosophy crosscontaminated by natural sciences (neurology,
bacteriology, thermodynamics, metallurgy, chaos and complexity theory,
connectionism), academic writing that aspires to the futureshock
intensity of jungle and other forms of postage music. According to
CCRU, its frenzied interdisciplinary activityas seen in its Virtual
Futures and biotechnology conferences, and its journals ***collapse
and Abstract Culturedisturbed Warwick's Philosophy Department,
resulting in the termination of the unit. Just as Kurtz disappeared up
river into the Vietnamese jungle, the cru have strategically withdrawn
to their operational base in an apartment in nearby Leamington Spa.
Institutionally, they've abandoned the university and linked up with
renegade autodidacts and paraacademic activists like O[rphan] D[frif],
Matt Fuller, and kodak Eshun. cru was originally set up as a research
unit for cybertheorist Sadie Plant, freshly recruited to Warwick from
Birmingham University. With Plant's unexpected departure in early '97
to become a freelance author (the acclaimed cyberfeminist polemic
Zeros + Ones, the self-explanatory Writing On Drugs), the role of
director of the cru was taken over by her ex-lover Nick Land.Land is
the kind of vortical machine around which swirl all manner of
outlandish and possibly apocryphal storiesallegedly he went through a
phase of only talking in numbers, and was once taken over by three
distinct entities? True or not, there's no denying the fact that, as
Lecturer in Continental Philosophy, Dr. Land has been a strange
attractor luring students to Warwick purely through his personal
reputation and charisma. The Thirst For Annihilation: Georges Bataille
and Virulent Nihilism, Land's sole book-length publication, is a
remarkable if deranged mix of prosepoem, spiritual autobiography and
rigorous explication of the implications of Bataille's thought.
Prefiguring CCRU's struggles with university bureaucracy, the book
drips with antiacademic bile, occasionally spilling over into
flagellation selfdisgust. In the early Nineties, Land used to describe
himself as a "professor of delirium engineering." After the relatively
down-to-earth Sadie Plant's departure, Land has shepherded the cru
into an uncanny intervene between science and superstition, blending
Deleuze & Guattari and Norbert Wiener's cybernetics with his vast
knowledge of the occult, chaos magick and parapsychology: the I Ching,
Current 93 (Aleister Crowley's kundalinilike energy force), kabbalists
numerology, H.P. Lovecraft's Cthulhu Mythos, the eschatological
cosmology of Terence McKenna, etc. It's easy to see why Warwick
University was consternated by CCRU's research. Explaining one of
their numerological diagrams (an attempt to understand concepts as
number systems), Land describes it as gift from Professor Barker.
Inspired by Professor Challengerthe ConanDoyle antihero reinvented by
Deleuze & Guattari in A Thousand Plateaus:Capitalism &
SchizophreniaBarker appears to be a sort of imaginary mentor who
reveals various cosmic secrets to the CCRU. But we'd be a bit
reluctant to say imaginary now, wouldn't we?, cautions Land. We've
learned as muchwell, vastly more from Professor Barkerthan supposedly
real pedagogues! Including Barker's GeoCosmic Theory of Trauma.
Following the materialist lead of Deleuze & Guattari, human culture is
analyzed as just another set of strata on a geocosmic continuum. From
the chemistry of metals to the cycles of capitalism, from the
nonlinear dynamics of the ocean to the racialized breakbeat rhythms of
jungle, the cosmos is an unfolding traumascape governed by selfsimilar
patterns and fundamental processes that recur on every scale.
Libidinising flows and investing them with an intrinsically subversive
power, Deleuze & Guattari have been criticised as incorrigible
Romantics. cru develop this element of A Thousand Plateaus into a kind
of mysticmaterialism. Discussing what cru call Gothic Materialism
(ferrovampiric cultural activity which flirts with the inorganic and
walks the flatline" between life and death), Anna Greenspan talks
about how the core of the earth is made of iron, and blood contains
iron, about how the goal is to hook up with the Earth's metal plasma
core, which is the BodyWithoutOrgans. BodywithoutOrgans (BwO) is the
Deleuzian utopia, an inchoate flux of deterritorialized energy;
Greenspan says they take the two as an ethical injunction, a supreme
goal. * * * *O[rphan] D[rif] also talk about metal in the body and
seeking the BwO. Another Landinfluenced theoryfiction collective,
O[rphan] D[frif] are CRRU's prime allies: they performed at the
CCRUorganised Virtual Futures 96 conference at Warwick, and are set to
stage an event in collaboration with CCRU/Switch at London's
Beaconsfield Arts Centre, October of this year. Maggie Roberts and ran
Mukherjee, the core of OD, originally met as Fine Art students at the
prestigiousbutconservative Royal College, where their ideas about
creating a form of multimediabased anaesthetic terrorism oriented
around schizoid thinking, pre-linguistic autistic states and man-
machine interfaces proved way too radical. Formed in late 1994, OD was
shaped by two mind-blowing experiences: experimentation with drugs and
techno, and a 1993 encounter with Nick Land. Before cru started at
Warwick, Nick latched onto us very intensively for a while, says
Roberts. We fed him image experience, tactile readings of the stuff he
was buried in theoretically. He wanted his writing to kick in a much
more experiential way. For us, there was something wonderful about
having a man you could ring up and ask: what's radiation?, what's a
black hole? OD's collective debut was a multimedia installation at
London's Cabinet Gallery. What began as a catalogue for the show
escalated into an astonishing 437 page book, Cyberpositive. Like
Plant's Zeros + Ones, Cyberpositive is a swarmtext of sampled writings
that aren't attributed in the text. But where Plant offers footnotes;
OD merely list the asked and unasked contributors at the end.
Published in 1995, Cyberpositive serves as a sort of canondefining
primer for the cru intellectual universe, placing SF and cyberpunk
writers on the same level as poststructuralist theorists. We treat
Burroughs as clearly as important a thinker as any notional theorist,
says Nick Land, At the same time, every great philosopher is producing
an important fiction. Marx is obviously a science fiction writer. For
her part, Sadie Plant regards the Eighties cyberpunk novelists like
Gibson and cardigan as more reliable witnesses, precisely because,
unlike theorists, they don't have an axe to grind. The most highly-
charged passages in Cyberpositive are the hefty chunks of Plant/Land
writing and Roberts's and Mukherjee's evocations of the
technoraveEcstasyLSD experience. I used to write a lot in clubs, which
probably looked really pretentious, recalls Roberts. Tracing what's
happening in all the different sound channels and what they're doing
spatially and physically to you. The language veers from masochistic
mortification of the flesh (deep hurting techno, the meat is learning
to know loss) to imagery influenced by voodoo and shamanic possession
(white darkness, the fog of absolute proximity, psyclone, beautiful
fear). It's trying to process the dissassembling of the self, says
Roberts. Maybe what you're calling abject, we'd call melting. The
violence of the sounds in techno, its like you're being turned inside
out, smeared, penetrated. Despite her facial piercing and technopagan
accoutrements, Roberts has a sort of burnedout, aristocratic air that
suggests Marianne Faithfull circa 1969. A half-mile flickering on her
lips, as if shes privy to some cosmic joke, Roberts speaks in a faded
falteras though some unutterably alien zone of postman consciousness
hasn't quite relinquished its hold. Which may be a pretty accurate
description of the state of play. If cru have something of a cultic
air about them, OD go a lot further. Combining Mayan cosmology with
ideas about Artificial Intelligence, they seem to believe that
humanity will soon abandon the meat of incarnate existence and become
pure spirit. Throughout Cyberpositive theres the recurrent exhortation
we must change for the machines; while the book ends with the
declarationhuman viewpoint redundant. Not only do OD reckon Charles
Manson had some good ideas, their East London HQ contains several
cages of snakesproof of their determination to get really serious
about voodoo rites. The obsession was sparked by Gibsons Count Zero,
in which cyberspace has spontaneously generated entities equivalent to
the loa (the spiritgods of verdun cosmology). Throughout the
interview, a shaven-headed OD member called Rich sits with baby boa
constructors wrapped around his body. His other contribution to the
evening is to make some sandwichesdaintily quartered, but containing
peanut butter mixed with sardines. "Too radical for me", I confess
after one nibble. Rich's eyesight up triumphantly: endgame Over. *****
*Cyberpositive was originally the title of an essay by Sadie Plant and
Nick Land. First aired at the 1992 drug culture symposium Pharmakon,
Cyberpositive was a gauntlet thrown down at the Leftwing orthodoxies
that still dominate British academia. The term cyberpositive was a
twist on Norbert Wierner's ideas of negative feedback (homeostasis),
and positive feedback (runaway tendencies, vicious circles). Where the
conservative Wiener vaporized negative feedback, Plant/Land
repositivized positive feedbackspecifically the tendency of market
forces to generate disorder and destabilize control structures.It was
pretty obvious that a theoretically left-leaning critique could be
maintained quite happily but it wasn't ever going to get anywhere,
says Plant. If there was going to be scope for any kind of....not
resistance, but any kind of discrepancy in the global consensus, then
it was going to have to come from somewhere else. As well as Deleuze &
Guattari, another crucial influences were neoDeleuzian theorist Manuel
De Landa's idea of capitalism as the system of antimarkets. Plant and
the cru enthuse about bottomup, grassroots, self-organizing activity:
street markets, the frontier zones of capitalism, what De land calls
meshwork, as opposed to corporate, top-down capitalism. It all sounds
quite jovial, the way cru describe it nowa bustling bazaar culture of
trade and cutting deals. But Cyberpositive actually reads like a
nihilistic paean to the cyberpathology of markets, celebrating
capitalism as a viral contagion and declaring everything cyberpositive
is an enemy of mankind. In Nick Lands essays like Machinic Desire and
Meltdown, the tone of morbid glee is intensified to an apocalyptic
pitch. There seems to be a perverse and literally antihumanist
identification with the dark will of capital and technology, as it
rips up political cultures, deletes traditions, dissolves
subjectivities.This gloating delight in capital's deterritorializing
virulence is the CCRUs reaction to the stuffy complacency of Leftwing
academic thought. There's definitely a strong alliance in the academy
between antimarket ideas and completely scleroticised,
institutionalized thought, says CCRU's Mark Fisher. It's obvious that
capitalism isnt going to be brought down by its contradictions.
Nothing ever died of contradictions! Exulting in capitalism's
permanent crisis mode, cru believe in the strategic application of
pressure to accelerate the tendencies towards chaos. Hungry for
intellectual reasonstobecheerful, cru simultaneously renounce
postmodernism's wan fatalism (the idea that we're at the end of
everything) and the guiltwracked impotence of the Left. In the
process, they've jettisoned the concept of alienation in both its
Marxist and Freudian senses. They speak approvingly of surplus value,
sublimation and commodityfetishism as creative tendencies. Where
Cyberpositive noted how how runaway capitalism had accessed
inconceivable alienations, CCRU's collectively written essay
Swarmachines goes further and climaxes with the boast: alienated and
loving it. The idea, says Fisher, comes from a mixandblend of Lyotard
and Blade Runnerthe proletariat as this synthetic class, and
revolution that's on the side of the synthetic and artificial. The
concept of alienation depends on the notion that there's some
authentic essence lost through the development of capitalism. But
according to Barker, everything's already synthetic. If reality really
is a biomechanical, geocosmic continuum, there's no reason to resist
capitalisms escalating dynamic of antinaturalism: addiction to
hyperstimulus, the creation of artificial desires. The mania of CCRU's
textswith their moodblend of euphoric anticipation and dystopian
dreadis contagious. Much of the time they're trying to create a
theoryrush that matches the buzz they get from contemporary
sampladelic dance music; they describe, halfjokingly, what they do as
subbass materialism. The musical model is really key to us, says Land.
It's absurd to say that music doesn't represent the real and therefore
its an empty metaphor. Every theorist who hasnt a real place for music
ends up with one-dimensional melancholia. Not only do the cru derive a
lot of their energy from music (specifically drum & bass and UK
garage, which one member of the unit actually makes and Djs under the
name Kode 9) but popular culture is where their ideas seem most
persuasive. Right from its late Eighties beginnings, rave cultures
motor has been anarchocapitalist: from promoters throwing illegal
parties in warehouses to drug dealing. Even after its co-optation by
the record and clubbing industries, rave music's cutting edge comes
from small labels, cottageindustry producers with home studios,
specialist record stores, pirate radio. Sadie Plant attributes these
bottom-up economic networks to the end of welfare and dependency
culture, which forced people to get real and find some ways of
surviving but also to invent new forms of collectivity (the
microutopian communality of the rave). As well as being galvanized by
music, the cru are influenced by the theorydriven leading edge of
music journalism. One of their associate members is kodak Eshun,
contributor to iD and The Wire, and author of the book More Brilliant
Than The Sun: Adventures In Sonic Fiction (Quartet), a study of
Afrofuturist music from Sun Ra to 4 Hero. shun describes himself and
the cru as conceptengineers. Most theory contextualises, historicists
and cautions; the conceptengineer uses theory to speculate, excite and
ignite, shun proclaims. Like a DJ/producer, the conceptengineer is a
samplefinder, free to suspend belief in the ultimate truth-value of a
theory and simply use the bits that work (in the spirit of Deleuze &
Guattari's offering up of A Thousand Plateaus as toolkit rather than
gospel). Conceptengineer is a good tag for the outerzone of
independent researchers to which cru is connected. Renegade
autodidacts like Howard Slater, a Deleuzefreak whose technozine
break/flow brilliantly analyses rave culture in terms of surges of
intensity and impulsional exchanges. And like Matthew Fuller, a media
theorist/activist with a background in anarchist politics and links to
the hacker underground. Fullers CV of cultural dissidence includes
flypostering, a nonInternet bulletin board called Fast Breeder, the
scabrous freshest Underground, and a series of anarchoseminars
dedicated to the praxis of media terrorism. Fuller also put out the
anthology Unnatural: TechnoTheory For A Contaminated Culture, which
included Plant/Land's Cyberpositive. Discussing his own cybertheory
writings, Fuller talks about dismantling traditional modes of
political address and developing a sort of postideological realpolitik
of resistance. A true conceptengineer, he believes in ransacking
theory texts for taskspecific ideas. Publishers like Autonomedia and
Semiotexte produce material that you don't have to be an academic to
get into, so it circulates outside those milieux. When I give
presentations at academic events, it's easy to see I'm in a more
powerful position than the academicsI can steal all the advantages of
their discipline, plus do something else with it that fucks it up
totally. Noting that Deleuze & Guattari are already being
institutionalized into the most dreary, saintly area of discourse,
Fuller says hes dedicated to cracking open those texts again, thinkers
who originally opened stuff up to delirium and the irrational. I mix
up different linguistic registers and narrative strategies so that the
text writes in the hands of the reader. In that respect, there's a lot
more to be learned from fiction than theory. Here Fuller chimes in
with Sadie Plant, whose forthcoming Writing On Drugs will include a
fictional component, and who hopes her future books will become pure
fiction. The most enjoyable aspect of cru is that they are a gangPh.D.
students with attitude!, says Eshun. Loathing the necrotic side of
philosophy, the chewingover of dead thinkers entrails, and bored limp
by the delibidinising atmosphere of seminars, cru used to attend
academic events, claims Eshun, expressly in order to disrupt,
undermine and ridicule.... They'd get into pitched battles with
Derrideans!" Weary of such sports, Plant and cru have all
enthusiastically embraced the idea of escaping institutional lockdown
by going freelance. The cru hope to become a kind of independent
thinktank, selling commodities on the intellectual free marketlike
their strikingly designed Abstract Culture (each swarm consists of
five separate monographs bundled together) and, in the future, CD's,
CDROM's and books. It seems unlikely, however, that Plant and her
erstwhile cronies will rejoin forces once theyre out in the free-
market wilderness. Some kind of ideological rift seems to have
occurred. Plant says she couldnt really go along with the trip into
numerical mysticism, not least because she didn't like finding herself
in the role of the sensible, conservative onenot a role I'm used to!
CCRU, for their part, seem to have resented their gurus premature
departure from Warwick. Nick Land's hermetic, he wants acolytes, says
Eshun. Whereas Sadies this total communicator. Zeros + Ones is the
return of the grand narrative with a vengeance. I cant think of any
other writer with the same ambition. Sadie wants the world and I think
she'll get it. For cru work, postcard activity, and allied renegade
autodidacts check out these sites: Cybernetic Culture Research Unit
http://www.ccru.net/KGothic http://www.kgothic.net/Datacomb
http://www.kpunk.net/kpunk.netKPunk
http://kpunk.abstractdynamics.org/Hyperdub
http://www.hyperdub.com/Kode 9 http://www.ccru.net/kode9.htmAbstract
Machines http://www.ccru.net/abstractmachines.htmOrphan Drift
http://www.orphandrift.com/Matthew Fuller
http://www.autonomedia.org/behindtheblip/index.html (originally
published in an abridged version by springer magazine, Vienna, 1999)
By Nick Cohen. In of all places the Evening Standard, today. As I
limber up for the next wave of long posts, some recommendations: 1. A
finely honed volley of invective spat at the Royal Idiot by Philip
Mind. (btw, doesn't the phrase 'Colonial and Natives' invite you to
imagine an early is New Romantic band somewhere between Heaven 17 and
Spandau Ballet? Or maybe the title of a missing track from Simple
Minds' 'Empire and Dance'?) Course, ulimately, Harry is to be
congratulated, on the grounds that anything which subtract credibility
from the monarchy must be enthusiastically welcomed. 2. 9 cru
datastream recovered from space oblivion at Sagittipotent. 3. Marcello
excellent on AI. Most of the posters at alt.movies.kubrick were
dismissive of Spielerg's claim to be 'completing' a Kubrick film,
though, as MC suggests, the film does have real SK moments. The
opening section, up until the point where David is expelled from the
family, and the end section, in which David is reunited with a
simulationreincarnation of his 'mother', have always struck me as
particularly powerful. Of the middle section, with Jude Law, the less
said the better (only the Teddy Bear much more lifelike than Jude
makes this uh bearable). The appearance of aliens onscreen was pure
Spielberg (difficult to imagine Kubrick countenancing THAT). 4. The
current weathered edition of Cabinet magazine. Haven't come across
this before, but some gratifyingly intelligent and erudite pieces,
including 'The Sunset Coast' by Michael Bracewell, on the vulgar
sublimity of the English seaside: 'A little further south from Heysham
village, the coastal flatlands known as Middleton Sands still house
the ruins of the old Pontins holiday camp  its ranks of derelict guest
chalets grouped around a main building that was designed to resemble,
and included original fittings from, an ocean liner. With the slogan
"Cruising on Dry Land", this Pontins camp was typical of its era the
postwar, early Pop era of British holiday camps, the dawn of bottled
colas, teenagers, and the Twist. Visited now, the place has all the
bewitching, elegiac charm of any Gothic ruin; the paint is peeling on
the drydocked liner with its scarletandblack funnels; the BMX cycle
track is cracked with weeds. What remains is a ghost of the first Pop
age and the golden years of the coastal holiday from the daily routine
of work and family.' 5. The Aviator. Capitalism and Schizophrenia. War
and cinema. Make sure you don't miss the opportunity to experience
this sumptuous spectacle in the cinema. Scorsese at the peak of his
powers. A long post here on this soon. So many punk lines intersect in
the passage I've reproduced below from grail Marcus' Lipstick Traces.
For me, it's the best section of the book the one which breaks out of
the official counterhistory (which in any case was even then, in 1989,
not so secret) of the Dadaist, leftist and Situationist incursion into
Pop via punk. Instead, it producesdiscovers a whole other
micronarrative web connecting punk, the Freud of Moses and Monotheism
and pulp SF. Anarchy in the UK as the realized death drive, as, that
is to say, the revenge of the Real upon the reality principle.... As
ever a modernist stranded in postmodernity, all timeliness cut and
reversed, I hadn't seen Quatermass and the Pit when I read Lipstick
Traces in 1989. But Marcus' writing on it triggered flashes of
artificial memory because, although I hadn't yet seen Quatermass and
the Pit, I had, as you can hardly fail to know, seen Dr Who, which,
especially in the Pertwee era, remixed Kneale's hypernaturalist
premiss (demons as aliens, the apparently supernatural as the not yet
understood scientific) many times. I read Marcus' book as I laboured
under a delusion in a temp factory job (yes, you can imagine how
humiliatingly painful my pathetic attempt to function in that world of
Real Men was), the downpressing weight of the Real World beginning to
hit me in the first few months after graduating. Of course, the
passages on the poverty of everyday life, on the Situationist refusal
of work, on punk's demanding of the impossible, the sense that we
can't, we shouldn't live like this any more, struck a special chord
then. There was I, doing cheap labour in someone else's misery before
going onto 'something better' although that 'something better' turned
out to be, in the first instance, an attempt at an MA that ended in my
first breakdown, followed by years of unemployment, dead end courses
and microjobs temporarily incarcerated with those for whom this was
It, working life a forty year sentence of noise, dirt and tedium.
(Though not, for them, in that factory; it closed a few years later).
And, at that time, as the last of the Seventies Dream faded, I was
required to hope for a job in Unilever or something. The memory of
those graduate job brochures still fill me with a shivering
existential horror: twenty-three year old kids talking about 'the
opportunity for early responsibilidy', laughable corporate zombies
being held up as some kind of ideal. I never realised/ the lengths I'd
have to go Everything seemed over, not only for me, but for the whole
culture. Still living at home. Very few friends, none of them women.
Those friends themselves locked into temp job misery, like me not
having the will to pursue the career ambitions which are the goal of
those who have lost any real ambition, or never had it in the first
place. The Marcus book could not but read elegiacally then. I guess
that dreams always end. A series of postcards from lost futures,
souvenir wreckage from worlds that could have been. At the same time,
it also operated as a storehouse of counter-cultural provisions, a
Dreaming kit that, along with Lipstick Traces, Simon and David Stubbs
in Melody Maker, the Wire, Vague, would sustain me through the
desolate virtual nuclear winter at the fag end of the Cold War and the
beginning of the End of History. It wasn't music criticism; like the
Pop it described, this discourse was always about more than music:
sound was only the vehicle for a raging against the mean
inevitabilities and analyzing commonsense of the then smugly dominant
reality principle. And the shoots and spoons of a liveable future,
then heartbreaking far off (only another fifteen years Mark), were
already there in those three or four pages by Marcus. A future in
which my Seventies childhood would splice with my yentob unglazed
nineties dancing body, and with my yentob cyberpunk theoryfiction
mind. Any way, here's Greil: 'I can compare the sensation this
performance [the Sex Pistols' last, at San Francisco hinterland in
1978] produced only to Five Million Years to Earth, a film made in
England in 1967 under the title Quatermass and the Pit. The time and
place is Swinging London, where the reconstruction of a subway station
has revealed a large, oblong, metal object: a spaceship, as any movie-
goers could tell the cops and bureaucrats who cant. Near the object
are the fossilized remains of apemen; within it are the perfectly
preserved corpses of humanize insects. The scientist Quatermass is
called in. Putting the pieces together, he determines that, five
million years before, Martiansthe insectsfaced with the extinction of
life on their own planet, sent a small band of scientists to earth.
Their goal is to implant the Martian essence in an alien life form
(the gimmick is a nice anticipation of the theory of the selfish
gene): to find a home for the soul of the Martian race. The Martians,
Quatermass slowly learns, were by nature genocidal: the death of their
planet is their own work. Indeed it is their masterpiece, and so to
maintain themselves on earth they must destroy it. The Martian
scientists select the most promising earth
creaturesaustralopithecines, which emerged perhaps eight million years
ago, and which most paleoanthropologists consider directly ancestral
to our own genusand, through genetic surgery, set a small group on the
road to planetary dominance. Endowed with the Martian traits of
cognition and bloodlust (the latter notion, in 1967, a nod to the
fashionable humanorigin theories of Robert Ardrey), the chosen
australopithecines follow their coded path to Homo sapiens and inherit
the earth. Once the new species has achieved the technology necessary
to dominate nature, destiny will be manifested in its destruction. But
the graft is not perfect; the contradiction between earth and Martian
genes is never fully absorbed. Though there is no consciousness of the
intervention, there is a phylogenetic memory. Freud believed that
modern people in some fashion remember, as actual events, the
parricide he thought established human society, and unconsciously
preserve that memory in otherwise inexplicably persistent myths and
rituals; in Moses and Monotheism he argued that, hundreds of years
after the fact, the Israelites carried a memory of their forebears
murder of a first Moses, even though in oral and written traditions
the event was completely suppressed. In Five million Years to Earth
the argument is that modern people remember step-parents who, with
infinite patience, set out to kill their progenyand the idea explains
why, with their all-powerful science, the Martians did not simply wipe
out life on earth as they found it. They meant to perpetuate
themselves on earth by making its historyby coding its end in its
beginning. A passion for prophecy, it seems, is also a Martian trait:
they loved drama as much as death. For Quatermass, all sorts of
phenomena that as a scientist he has dismissed as relics of an
irrational past take on a new meaning. Poring through books on ritual
and myth, he begins to understand that along with its domination of
nature, its march toward mastery and abundance, the new species has
produced irreducible images of a primordial displacement. They are
attempts to cast the alien out; to abstract the im planted traits from
the body, to reify them into demonism. But there is a contradiction
here too: it is only the alien intelligence that permits the species
to engage in a process as complex as reificationa sort of
fetishization of alienation, where human properties are transferred to
things that human beings have themselves produced, things that then
operate autonomously, finally turning human beings into thingsand
reification cuts a two-way street. Once expelled, once removed into a
representation of the demonic, the alien presence casts a spell.
Quatermass discovers that not only did the Martians put their name on
the site of the subway station where their remains were found (frantic
research reveals that its address, Hobb's Lane, once meant Devils
Haunt), thus making it, in medieval times, a cursed place, they have,
in the shape of the parthuman, parthornedanimal figure of The
Sorcerer, inscribed their image on the wall of the cro-magnon
sanctuary of Trois Frres, thus making it, in paleolithic times, a
place of worship. The Sorcerer echoes across fifteen thousand years
into an otherwise inexplicable Christian prayer: The Lord is in this
place, how dreadful is this place. Human history begins to make sense,
but it is no longer human. The disturbance in the subway station calls
up the dormant Martian presence. The spaceship begins to vibrate, and
the energy released by the vibrations creates a vacuum. The vacuum
sucks up sleeping genes, which create a repulsive, beckoning image: a
glowing, horned devil, overshadowing London, the Martian Antichrist.
Across five million years, genetic drift is not uniform. By the
twentieth century, some people are coded for destruction; some carry
only a few broken alien messages. Some respond to the Martian image;
some do not. For those who do, the ancient codes become language, and
memories of the original Martian genocide course to the surface. For
those who do not respond, language dissolves. Humanity is split into
two species; there is anarchy in London. Men and women surge through
the streets smashing all those they recognize as alien: all who carry
less of the Martian essence than they do. The Martian image turns red.
Hobbess state of nature was the war of all against all; this is it,
and it is lurid beyond belief. More human than Martian, Quatermass
lives to see the demonic image vanquished and the Martian genes put
back to sleepbut not before a comrade, more human than Quatermass, who
can stand to gaze into the face of the image as Quatermass cannot, has
been exploded in the attack. The image is pure phylogenetic energy;
guiding a steel crane straight into it, Quatermass comrade negates the
image with massa neat Einsteinian twist. Quatermass assistant, more
Martian than he, returns to his side as if awakened from a dream;
minutes before, she was squeezing blood out of his neck. In a long,
silent shot, the movie endsand because there is no freeze frame, no
automatic irony, the movie doesnt seem to end at all. Quatermass and
his assistant are seen in the wreckage of London; he leans on a ruined
wall. Everything he has seen is in his eyes, and he is trying to
forget what he has seen, but the shotit goes on and ondoesnt last long
enough for his assistants eyes to focus. Now it is plain that Five
Million Years to Earth is a i960 version of 1950s atomicbombmutation
films; an exculpatory allegory of Nazism and the Blitz; a quick and
easy update of the gnostic heresy in which the world is split between
equally empowered Good and Evil gods; a bid to make fast money off
whatever dislocations might be circulating in modern society at any
given time. It doesnt play like that. It is progressively
horrifyingespecially at 2 A.M., when it is most readily seen on
television; when, as Nietzsche wrote, man permits himself to be lied
to . . . when he dreams, and his moral sense never even tries to
prevent this; when there is no one with whom one might dominate the
film. Quatermass victory is the victory of rational certainty over
irrational doubt; the doubt in his face at the end is not doubt that
he has won, but doubt that he wanted to. Perhaps it is no accident
that, on occasion, the Late Show has cut the last twenty minutes: cut
the anarchy, offering only the mystery, its formal solution, and then
the films last shot, which no longer carries any meaning.' Previous
punk Quatermass postings: non-organic MemoryLay! Lay! Lay! Quatermass
page So much of the furore arising from the Prince Harry Nazi incident
REEKS of hypocrisy... the current position of the Privet Hedge Brigade
seems to be that it's bad form to DRESS as a Nazi, but it's OK to BE a
Nazi (because, you know, the big Other might see) ... 'Tightening up
on immigration', 'restricting the numbers of asylum seekers', all not
only acceptable but practically mandatory in the current capitalist
parliamentarian regime. Cue spluttering denials from behind the
rhodendrons. 'Just because I want to send people back to their own
countries doesn't mean I'm a Nazi'. Cut to Denholm Elliot in Brimstone
and Treacle: No, I don't want camps and guns... Michael Kitchen: But
what if they won't go? What then? Reminds me of another phobic piece I
saw in the Mail yesterday about the MILLIONS of illegal immigrants
working here... Well, what would happen if we sent them back, Mr
Dacre? Who'd clean the shit off the streets at five in the morning
then? You have to laugh at those who say that Harry should not now be
able to join the Army. Surely he'll fit right in with 'our boys',
those lovable queerbashing psychopath squaddies who make the areas
surrounding barracks such friendly and unthreatening places.. as if
NOONE in the British Army has a collection of Nazi memorabilia... Just
to prove the point, look at 'former SAS man and old Etonian' Simon
Mann, pictured on team this morning in chains in a Zimbabwe jail (I
have to say, no day that begins with that image can be all bad)... Not
surprisingly, the only person team could produce to defend poor, hard
donato Mark Thatcher was 'former MP' Jonathan Aitken. That's right,
that's how he was billed as 'former MP' not as 'former arms dealing
liar and hypocrite'. Still, Mark 'just wants to be reunited with his
family', so, like, he's a family man, and as we know, if you're a
family man, well, you couldn't possibly be involved in a sordid
mercenary plot aimed at stealing oil from Africa... And he's BRITISH,
so a prior he shouldn't be subject to the barbaric judicial regimes of
African countries, should he? I'm obe very pleased with the responses
to the Joy Division post (lotsa links, including one from a Spanish
site and a Dutch site, neither of which, as a language dimbo, I can
understand and sadly the online translators I tried were not up to the
job). Strikes me that one positive aspect of closing the comments
boxes is that it takes things back to the early days of blogs, where
people were much more likely to produce longer, thoughtful responses
to posts on their own sites. This put blows somewhere between a static
webster and a forum, avoiding the closure of the former and the free-
for-all openness of the latter. The troll can only thrive on a forum,
because there they can assume the role of badly Martin antagonist, the
voice of faux objectivity, because they never have to lay their own
cards on the table. That's impossible with a blog, which always comes
from somewhere, has an agenda, a vision. re: Amblongus' remarks: as it
happens, I'm strongly nostalgic for the seventies, for its prestige
glamour (I wonder if the rise of Style meant the end of Glam/our
actually?). Something punctual seemed to happen round about 1982, and
as Mark Sinker was saying to me in conversation, Curtis' death no
doubt played an enormous role in that threshold shift into
shoulderpadded, glossedout blandness. The mid to late eighties still
produces a shiver of Horror whenever I think back to it... You just
have to flick through to the end of the NME's Goth thing... The
Mission, Jesus, a strong candidate to be the worst group ever... That
disgusting unkempt long hair, the cowboy boots and spurs, the palpable
stench of patchouli oil rising up from every tedious crash chord... As
for Simon: an awful lot here, as always.... Will have to read Norman O
Brown, Simon's obe right.... But I would want to reiterate the point
that there is a version of the death drive (namely, Lacan's) that
surpasses both vitalism and a conventional self-destructive sense of
the Thanotropic. It's interesting that Nineties 'Deleuzianism' was in
effect divided along those lines: in every sense the libidinal wing,
occupied by theory renegades such as Nick Land and Iain Hamilton Grant
versus the dead hand of sensible, academic careerist vitalism, whose
toonumeroustoname advocates (autopoioeidipalists as Iain gloriously
labelled them) united in the prayer, 'emerge, emerge' (Iain again). I
remember, in what must have been 1983, asking a fellow JD cultish
(being into Joy Division for me was pretty straightforwardly a
religion, a cult in the strong sense, a badge of nonmembership in the
teenage world of empty hedonism): 'Why is it that negative things are
so much more attractive than positive things?' Seems to me that its
crucial to go all the way through the libido of the negative to
utterly resist the commonsense privileging of the vital whilst NOT
getting Curtis syndrome. The r and r young death thing was so self-
conscious from what Deborah Curtis says, Ian C was fixated on this
since his own teenage years: His fanaticism for David Bowie, and in
particular his version of Jacques Brels song My Death, was taken at
the time to be a fashionable fascination. (5) When Mott the Hooples
All You Young Dudes hit the charts, Ian began to use the lyrics as his
creed. He would choose certain songs and lyrics such as Speed child,
dont wanna stay alive when youre twentyfive, or David Bowies Rock and
Roll Suicide , and be carried away with the romantic magic of an early
death. He idolized people like Jim Morrison who died at their peak.
This was the first indication anyone had that he was becoming
fascinated with the idea of not living beyond his early twenties, and
the start of the glitter and glamour period in his life. (7) Of course
all of this is itself a self-conscious echo of the Romantic cult of
the dead young poet, which began with Chatterton (the whole myth of
which was wonderfully exploded by Ackroyd in his hyperfictional
novel).... But the poet who longs for an early exit is not
straightforwardly 'in love with easeful death': what he (and the
gendered term here is no accident) feared was the intensive death of a
life 'pointlessly' prolonged into what kodak called 'the coffin of
adulthood'. To die prematurely is to be forever young, to attain the
'cold pastoral' of Keats' grecian urn... But the Lacanian sense of the
death drive is neither to do with that, NOR to do with Buddhist
cessatation: the death drive is that which is genuinely beyond the
pleasure principle. The pleasure principle seeks satiation, the
release of tension which is why the Nirvana principle, the drive
towards total quiescence, still belongs to it. Only a drive which is
hostile to all closure, all quiescence, moves beyond the organs and
the pleasures of the organs. This is what D/G mean by the plateau and
the plateau's relationship to anti-climactic dance music means there
is a way of conceiving of sonic stim which has little to do with the
agitational impulses of the organism. Apparently paradoxically,
dancing involves a stillness, or rather, an effective stilling of the
organism's endless quest to be always elsewhere (this especially a
feature of organisms suffering from TMT, Too Much Testosterone), an
enjoyment in and through tension that resists any orgasmic
culminationconsummation. So: for me, it's always dance, not
meditation. The body without organs, not bodilessness. .. . (A whole
other post on the route from 'She's Lost Control' through to House is
necessary, I think...) As for the icy calm of Closer: yes... One thing
that I heard many times from people on Psych wards that had been very
serious and very methodical about ending their lives was the feeling
of total calm that came over them when they had really decided to go
ahead and do it. That is what is disturbing about the very last Joy
Division music, the sense that you are listening to someone who is
already dead... The early is thing and speed... yes, obviously what
Simon said is true. And yet, I think one thing that has achieved
nearconsensual support on our part of the blogosphere is the
destruction of the myth that the early is was a barren period for
music. Reading the NME's Glam thing a few months back, I felt exactly
the opposite: that there has never been a more sustained, brilliant
period for pop than in those Glam years. Lumpen punk was a tedious r
and r distraction, before the Glam discontinued resumed in postpunk.
As for the relationship to speed, the drug... well, yes, no doubt
downers did gain more prominence in the early 70s... but in the more
abstract, McLuhanite sense, pop culture was still 'speeding' in the
early 70s, still relentlessly hungry for new forms of expression, new
connections.... Pop was still modernist in other words... Need to
think more about all this, however... Also got a few things to say
about why speed locks into cyberpunk.. but that'll have to wait... too
tired to carry on typing now... FASTER AND FASTER downhill, tearing
his clothing on rocks and thorny vines, and by dusk he was back at the
settlement. He knew at once that he Was too late, that something was
horribly wrong. No one would meet his eye. Then he saw Bradley Martin,
standing over a dying lemur. Mission could see that the lemur had been
shot through the body. He felt a concentration of rage, like a hot red
wave, but there was no reciprocal anger in Martin.Why? Mission choked
out.Stole my mango, Martin muttered insolently.Missions hand flew to
the butt of his pistol.Martin laughed. You would violate your own
Article, Captain? No. But I will remind you of Article TwentyThree: If
two parties have a disagreement that cannon be settled, then the rule
of the duel is applicable.Aye, but I have the right to refuse your
challenge, and I do.Martin was an indifferent swordsman and a poor
pistol shot.Then you must leave Libertatia, this very night, before
the sun shall set. You have no more than an hour.Without a word,
Martin turned away and walked off in the direction of his dwelling.
Mission covered the dead lemur with a tarpaulin, intending to take the
body into the jungle and bury it the following morning. IN HIS
QUARTERS Mission was suddenly overcome by a paralysing fatigue. He
knew that he should follow Martin and settle the matter, but  as
Martin had saidhis own Articles . . . He lay down and fell immediately
into a deep sleep. He dreamed that there were dead lemurs scattered
through the settlement, woke up at dawn with tears streaming down his
face. 1 MISSION DRESSED AND went out to get the dead lemur, but the
lemur and the tarpaulin were both gone. With blinding clarity he
understood whyMarttin had shot the lemur, and what he intended to do:
he would go to the natives and say that the settlers were killing the
lemurs and that, when he objected, they turned on him and he had
barely escaped with life. Lemurs were sacred to the natives in the
area, and there was the danger of bloody reprisal. Mission blamed
himself bitterly for allowing Martin to escape. No use to go looking
for him now. The damage was already done, and the natives would never
believe Missions denials. BIG BEN STRIKES the hour. In a muted,
ghostly room, the custodians of the future convene. Keeper of the
Board Books: Mektoub, it is written. And they dont want it changed. If
three hundred menthen three thousand, thirty thousand. It could spread
everywhere. It must be stopped now.Our man Martin is on target. Quite
reliable.A woman leans slightly forward. An arrest ing face of
timeless beauty and evil, an evil that stops the breath like a deadly
gas. The chairman covers his face with a handkerchief.She speaks in a
cold, brittle voice, each word a chip of obsidian: There is a more
significant danger. I refer to Captain Missions unwholesome concern
with lemurs.The word slithers out of her mouth writhing with hatred.
THERE ARE NO further repercussions from the incident with Martin. But
Mission does not slacken his precautions. He can feel Martin out there
waiting his time with the cold reptilian patience of the perfect
agent.He had underestimated Martin from the beginning by not seeing
him. Martin had the capacity to create a lack of interest in himself.
2 Even his position was ambiguous, something between a petty officer
and a member of the crew. But since there were no petty officers, he
occupied an empty space. And he made no attempt to fill it. When told
to do something he did it quickly and efficiently. Yet he made no
attempt to make himself useful. Since Mission found contact with
Martin vaguely disagreeable he asked him to do less and less. Mission
was displeased that Martin chose to join the settlers, but he did his
share of the work and bothered no one. When he was not working he
would simply sit, his face as empty as a plate. He was a large, sloppy
man with a round pasty face and yellow hair. His eyes were dull and
cold like lead.Mission saw Martin for the first time as they
confronted each other over the dying lemur. And what he saw inspired
in him a deadly, implacable hatred.He sees Martin as the paid servant
of everything he detests. No quarter no compromise is possible. This
is war to extermination. 1. Consider the inexorable logic of the Big
Lie. If a man has a consuming love for cats and dedicates himself to
the protection of cats, you have only to accuse him of killing and
mistreating cats. lie will have the unmistakable ring of truth,
whereas his outraged denials will reek of falsehood and evasion. [...]
2. If you wish to conceal anything you have only to create a lack of
interest in the place where it is hidden. Burroughs, Ghost of Chance
"If you shoot yourself, you'll become God, isn't that right?""Yes,
I'll become God."  Dostoyevsky, The Devils  [O]ut of the corner of my
eye I saw him. He was kneeling in the kitchen. I was relieved  glad he
was still there Now what are you up to? I took a step towards him,
about to speak. His head was bowed, his hands resting on the washing
machine. I stared at him, he was so still. Then the rope  I hadnt
noticed the rope. The rope from the clothes rack was around his neck.
I ran through to the sitting room and picked up the telephone. No,
supposing I was wrong  another false alarm. I ran back to the kitchen
and looked at his face  a long string of saliva hung from his mouth.
Yes, he really had done it  Deborah Curtis, Touching From a Distance:
Ian Curtis and Joy Division, 133 So there it is, sublimation and
desublimation. Suicide as Theological Art work (Ill become God), and
suicide as a pathetic mess (a long string of saliva) for someone else
to clear up. This post has been inevitable for over two decades. But
it has been given particular impetus by three recent encounters. 1.
The NMEs Goth special, which, amongst other things, collects together
the Joy Division reviews. Strange in many ways to see them canonized
as Goth princes. There was no question of course that theirs was a
fiercely expressionist sound  a sound in fact that was much more
genuinely Gothic than that of the Caligarifaced panto turns who have
appropriated the name or who have delighted in having had it foisted
upon them. Yes, Joy Division, with the witchy emptiness of the
Pennines weighing heavy upon them, had produced what Jon Savage called
the definitive Northern Gothic statement. They had transmuted what the
Manchester damp and the shadows and omen called into dread being by
the hills and moors that lurked at the edge of their vision (Morley)
into the darkest machine Pop, a terminus of the Gothic Northern line
in a Pop rigor mortified into anxious mechanism. Yet the austerity of
Joy Divisions image  their staged refusal of Image  set them at odds
with the postBowie mummery of the Banshees, the Cure, Bauhaus and
their diminishing returns photocopyofphotocopies offspring. They were
Gothic, but not Goths, surely. 2. A conversation with kodak at the
Noise conference, lines coming out of his pieces on Closer and
Movement. kodak recognized that moving on from Joy Division involved
disavowal, in the strongest sense. I can't help but feel this music as
a missing part of my body, a part I sacrificed at the stake of Black
British life. Joy Division were a cult, but a hermeticists cult, a
cult of those who didnt belong and who didnt want to belong, a bedroom
communion between those who would never meet. New Order, more than
anyone else, were in flight from the mausoleum edifice of Joy
Division, and had finally achieved severance by 1990. The England
world cup song, cavorting around with beery, leery Keith Allen, a man
who for me more than any other personifies the quotidian masculinist
of overground Brit bloke culture in the late eighties and nineties,
was a consummate act of desublimation. This, in the end, was the price
of escaping [the] anxiety of influence (the influence of themselves).
On Movement they were still in post-traumatic stress, frozen into a
barely communicative trance (The noise that surrounds me/ so loud in
my head ) They were moving towards an electronic post-punk fusion here
for which there were simply no rules as yet. It's almost as if what
they started here on 'Doubts Even Here' and 'The Him' especially, with
its churning, blizzardagainstthewindshield hail of sound frightened
them, and they pulled back towards something more manageable. 3. A
conversation with Mark Sinker at the kpunk/ Infinite Thought christmas
party. It was clear that Mark and I had were at opposite sides of an
irrevocable break, or timecut, a cultural chronoschasm. I didnt hear
Joy Division until 1982, so, for me, Curtis was alwaysalready dead
(the hanged man harbinger of the endlessly circulating notice of olive
media). Mark however experienced the Curtis death in becoming  as a
closing down of possibilities that were then very much live, as a
contingency not a Necessity, as mess, not Myth. Even though I could
hardly have been aware of it back then, in 1982 Pop was living off
stored energy, playing out formulae and designs that had already been
produced but were now discontinued. The source had expired, collapsed
into a dead star named Ian Curtis. Curtis death warped everything in
the Pop landscape, removing the urgency from the Modernist impulse to
endlessly reinvent, providing an alibi for those who wanted to
retrench, return. Everything had already happened, though we didnt
know it yet. In fact, though, the retreat from punk modernism into
postmodernism, from avantPop to New Pop, had been almost immediate,
Mark claimed. People thought theyd rather not have to hang themselves
as part of their job, if possible. asylums with doors open wide When I
first heard Joy Division, aged 14, it was like that moment in In the
Mouth of Madness when butter Cane forces John Trent to read the novel,
the hyperfiction, in which he is already immersed: my whole future
life, Good and Bad, intensely compacted into those demirel sound
images Ballard, Burroughs, dub, disco, Gothic, antidepressants, psych
wards, overdoses, slashed wrists. Way too much stim to even begin to
assimilate. Even they didnt understand what they were doing. How on
earth could I, then? It was clear, in the best interviews the band
ever gave to Jon Savage, a decade and a half after Curtiss death that
they had no idea what they were doing, and no desire to learn. Of
Curtis disturbingcompelling supercharged stage trance spasms and of
his disturbingcompelling catatonic downer words, they said nothing and
asked nothing, for fear of destroying the magic. They were unwitting
necromancers who had stumbled on a formula for channelling voices,
apprentices without a sorcerer. They saw themselves as mindless golem
animated by Curtis vision(s). (Thus, when he died, they said that they
felt they had lost their eyes ) As Mark put it in his piece on the
early Eps in The Wire (over a decade ago!): though the first bullying
shards of Joy Division music are punk in sound, they don't clarify.
This more than anything will become their signature everything about
them will be seized on, floridly discussed, and stay unexplained.
Physical to a fault, the music exhibits all the the signs of the
cerebral and none of its content invention pours out of these
dullardgeniuses, so stripped of hidden agendas that hidden agendas is
all that many remark upon. Above all  and even if only because of
audience reception they were more than a Pop group, more than
entertainment, that much is obvious. Thats why they are such an
embarrassment, a part, yes, of our body we had to disclaim. We know
all the words as if we wrote them ourselves, we followed stray hints
in the lyrics out to all sorts of darker chambers, and listening to
the albums now is like putting on a comfortable and familiar set of
clothes . But who is this we? Well, it might have been the last we
that a whole generation of notquitemen could feel a part of. There was
an odd universality available to Joy Divisions devotees (provided you
were male of course). Look at those whom they left their mark upon,
whom they still haunt: Savage, Morley (who has made an art out of not
writing about them), Sinker, Eshun, Bohn, me. Gay, black, straight,
white, postmodern, antipostmodern: the point when you could count
yourself one of Joy Divisions we  the sorrows we suffered and never
were free  is prelapsarian now, a time before the straitjacket
Identity Politics had tailormade for us had been cooked up. Provided
you were male of course The Joy Division religion was,
selfconsciously, a boys thing. The group wanted it that way and we, we
colluded. Deborah Curtis: Whether it was intentional or not, the wives
and girlfriends had gradually been banished from all but the most
local of gigs and a curious male bonding had taken place. The boys
seemed to derive their fun from each other. (77) No girls allowed Ian
and Deborah Curtis on their wedding day In this colony Try to imagine
England in 1979 now PreVCR, prePC, preC4. Telephones far from
ubiquitous (we didnt have one till around 1980, I think). The postwar
consensus disintegrating on black and white TV. Simon wrote a year or
so ago about the sheer cranes of England in the late Seventies of Jim
Callaghan and Grunwick and the Winter of Discontent, infusing
everything from peoples clothes and hair to the advertising hoardings
and prestige culture drabness (the U.K. looks like an Eastern Bloc
country). More than anyone else, Joy Division turned this sourness
into a uniform that self-consciously signified absolute authenticity;
the deliberately functional formality of their clothes seceding from
Punks tribalized antiGlamour, depressives dressing for the
Depression(Deborah Curtis). It wasnt for nothing that they were called
Warsaw when they started out. But it was in this Eastern bloc of the
mind (and of the political economy  after all, the UK in the
Seventies, with its sclerosis nationalized industries, corrupt
Sovietized Union power, and anticommercial workerism, was much closer
to the USSR than any of the British ruling class would then have liked
to admit), it was in this slough of despond, that you could find
working class kids who wrote songs steeped in Dostoyevsky, Conrad,
Kafka, Burroughs, Ballard, kids who, without even thinking about it,
were rigorous modernists who would have disdained repeating
themselves, never mind disinterring and aping what had been done
twenty, thirty years ago (the Sixties was a fading Pathe newsreel in
1979). Chris Bohns claim that Joy Division were making a music that
was entirely white and European, which owed almost nothing to any rock
past; that was their break with tradition is too simplistic,
misleading because to discount altogether the immense influence on Joy
Division of Morrison, Reed, Pop would be to miss how their
Anglicization operated. You have to consider what happened to all
these forebears in the Joy Division crucible. In effect, JD
accelerated their becomingEuropean, took the Reed of Berlin and the
Iggy who recorded in Berlin, took those starting points, which were
already intersections, and subtracted what was left of the
Americanness. Art Rock has always involved a flight from the terra
firm what rocks roosts call authenticity, which is also what critics
like Bangs and Marcus like to think of as quintessentially American.
The only authenticity Joy Division craved was existential
authenticity, something which, far from being inimical to
artificiality, finds expression in it (there is no natural, Nature is
still under production ) Back in 79, Art Rock still had a relationship
to the sonic experimentation of the Black Atlantic, if only because it
could be of use to it. Unthinkable now, but White Pop then was no
stranger to the cutting edge, so a genuine trade was possible. Bowie
and Roxy gave at least as much to the Black Atlantic as they took from
it. And Joy Division provided the Black Atlantic with some
conceptechnics, some fictions, it could redeploy. Ask Grace Jones or
Sleazy D. For all that, Joy Divisions relationship to Black Pop was
much more occluded than that of some of their peers. Postpunks break
from lumpen punk r and r consisted in large part in an ostentatiously
flagged returnreclaiming of Black Pop: funk and dub especially. There
was none of that, on the surface at least, with Joy Division. But a
group like Pils take on dub, now, sounds a little laborious, a little
literal, whereas, Joy Division, like The Fall, came off as a white
anglo equivalent of dub. Both Joy Division and The Fall were Black in
the priorities and economies of their sound: bass-heavy and
rhythmdriven. This was dub not as a form, but a methodology, a
legitimation for conceiving of soundproduction as abstract
engineering. But Joy Division also had a relationship to another
supersynthetic, article artificial Black sound: disco. Again, it was
they, better than PiL, who delivered the Death Disco beat. As Savage
loves to point out, the swarming syndrome on Insight (like a buzz of
bees in the cortex  Bohn) seem to be borrowed from disco records like
Amy Stewarts Knock on Wood. The role in all this of Martin Hannett, a
producer who needs to be counted with the very greatest in Pop, cannon
be underestimated and should not be undercelebrated. It is Hannett,
alongside Peter Saville, the groups sleeve designer, who ensured that
Joy Division were more Art than Rock. The damp mist of insinuating
uneasy listening Sound FX with which hamnett cloaked the mix, together
with Savilles depersonalising designs, meant that the group could be
approached, not as an aggregation of individual expressive subjects,
but as a conceptual consistency (what Kapital would call a brand  and
btw Art Rock via Punk was one way in which UK Kapital would learn
about the sexiness of corporate consistency). It was hamnett (Eno's
truest successor  Sinker) and Saville who transmuted the stroppy
neuromantics of Warsaw into cyberpunks. Gibsons world was Hannetts and
Savilles more than it was Curtis. Set the controls for the heart of
the black sun What impressed and perturbed about JD was the
fixatedness of their negativity. Unremitting wasnt the word. Yes, Lou
Reed and Iggy and Morrison and Jagger had dabbled in nihilism  but
even with Iggy and Reed that had been ameliorated by the odd moment of
exhilaration or at least there had been some explanation for their
misery (sexual frustration, drugs). What separated Joy Division from
any of their predecessors, even the bleakest, was the lack of any
apparent objectcause for their melancholia. (Thats what made it
melancholia rather than melancholy, which has always been an
acceptable, subtly sublime, delectation for men to relish.) From its
very beginnings, (Robert Johnson, Sinatra) c Pop has been more to do
with male (and female) sadness than elation. Yet, in the case of both
the bluesman and the crooner, there is, at least ostensibly, a reason
for the sorrow. Because Joy Divisions bleakness was without any
specific cause, they crossed the line from the blue of sadness into
the black of depression, passing into the desert and wastelands where
nothing brings either joy or sorrow. Zero affect. No heat in Joy
Divisions loins. They surveyed the troubles and the evils of this
world with the uncanny detachment of the neurasthenic. Curtis sang Ive
lost the will to want more on Insight but there was no sense that
there had been any such will in the first place. Give their earliest
songs a casual listen and you could easily mistake their tone for the
curled lip spiky punk outrage, but, already, it is as if Curtis is not
railing against injustice or corruption so much as marshalling them as
evidence for a thesis that was, even then, firmly established in his
mind. Depression is, after all and above all, a theory about the
world, about life. The stupidity and venality of politicians (Leaders
of Men), the idiocy and cruelty of war (Walked in Line) are pointed to
as exhibits in a case against the world, against life, that is so
overwhelming, so general, that to appeal to any particular instance
seems superfluous. In any case, Curtis expects no more of himself than
he does of others, he knows he cannon condemn from a moral high
ground: he let them use you/ for their own ends (Shadowplay), hell let
you take his place in a showdown (Heart and Soul). Depression is not
sadness, not even a state of mind, it is a (neuro)philosophical
(dis)position. Beyond Pops bipolar oscillation between evanescent
thrill and frustrated hedonism, beyond Jaggers wilsonian
Mephistopheleanism, beyond Iggys nofunhouse negated carny, beyond
Roxys lounge lizard reptilian melancholy, beyond the pleasure
principle altogether, Joy Division were the most Schopenhauerian of
Rock groups, so much so that they barely belonged to Rock at all.
Since they had so thoroughly stripped out Rocks libidinal motor Sex
has disappeared from these unknown pleasures; it is an aftermath of
passion in which everything is (perhaps) lost (Bohn)  it would be
better to say that they were, libidinal as well as sonically,
antiRock. Or perhaps, as they thought, they were the truth of Rock.
Rock divested of all illusions. (The depressive is always confident of
one thing: that he is without illusions.) Accept like a curse an
unlucky deal And so here are the extremes of pop: the masking of the
world of appearances, and the unmasking. Morley JD followed
Schopenhauer through the curtain of Maya, went outside the Burroughs
Garden of Delights, and dared to examine the hideous machineries that
produce the worldasappearance. What did they see there? Only what all
depressives, all mystics, always see: the obscene undead twitching of
the Will as it seeks to maintain the illusion that this object, the
one it is fixated upon NOW, this one, will satisfy it in a way that
all other objects thus far have failed to. Joy Division, with an
ancient wisdom (Ian sounded old, as if he had lived a lifetime in his
youth Deborah Curtis), a wisdom that is premammalian, premulticellular
life, preorganic, saw through all those reproducer ruses. This is the
Insight that stopped fear in Curtis, the calming despair that subdued
any will to want more. Yet this wisdom brought no enjoyment,
obviously. JD saw life as the Poe of The Conqueror Worm had seen it,
as gotti sees it: an automated marionette dance, which Through a
circle that ever returned in/ To the selfsame spot, an ultradetermined
chain of events that goes through its motions with remorseless
inevitability. You watch the prescribed film as if from outside,
condemned to watch the reels as they come to a close, brutally taking
their time. A student of mine wrote in an essay recently that they
sympathise with Schopenhauer when their football team loses. But the
true Schopenhauerian moments are those in which you achieve your
goals, perhaps realise your long-cherished hearts desire and feel
cheated, empty, no, more  or is it less?  than empty, voided. Joy
Division always sounded as if they had experienced one too many of
those decorating voidings, so that they could no longer be lured back
onto the merrygoround. They knew that satiation wasnt succeeded by
tristesse, it was itself, immediately, tristesse. Satiation is the
point at which you must face the existential revelation that you didnt
want really want what you seemed so desperate to have, that your most
urgent desires are only a filthy vitalis trick to keep the show on the
road. If you cant replace the fear or the thrill of the chase, why
stir yourself to pursue yet another empty kill? Why carry on with the
charade? As Scanshifts says, depressive ontology is dangerously
seductive because, as the zombie twin of Spinozist dispassionate
disengagement, it is half true. As the depressive withdraws from the
vacant confections of the Lifeworld, he unwittingly finds himself in
concordance with the human condition so painstakingly diagrammed by
Spinoza: he sees himself as a serial consumer of empty simulations, a
junky hooked on every kind of deadening high, a meat puppet of the
passions. The depressive cannon even lay claim to the comforts that a
paranoiac can enjoy, since he cannon believe that the strings are
being pulled by any One. No flow, no connectivity in the depressives
nervous system. It is a dry brain (Eliot) condition. The depressive is
unable to break through to the other side of this, to see that the
analysis of the mechanical causation of your misery is the first step
to escaping your Self, and, with it, human OS. So he remains an
Outsider who is not yet on the Outside, excluded from the Dominant
Operating System, but not capable of making the holes and disused
shafts beyond the Symbolic Order liveable, a neurotics, not a
psychotic. The sound from broken homes Neurosis was Curtis art form,
just as psychosis was Mark E Smiths. Nothing could have been more
fitting than that Unknown Pleasures began with a track called
Disorder, for the key to Joy Division was the palladian spinal
landscape, the contexts linking individual psychopathology with social
anomie. The two meanings of breakdown, the two meanings of Depression.
That was how Sumner saw it, anyhow. As he explained to Savage: There
was a huge sense of community where we lived. I remember the summer
holidays when I was a kid: we would stay up late and play in the
street, and 12 oclock at night there would be old ladies, talking to
each other. I guess what happened in the 60s was that the council
decided that it wasnt very healthy, and something had to go, and
unfortunately it was my neighbourhood that went. We were moved over
the river to a towerblock. At the time I thought it was fantastic; now
of course I realise it was an absolute disaster. Id had a number of
other breaks in my life. So when people say about the darkness in Joy
Divisions music, by age of 22, Id had quite a lot of loss in my life.
The place where I used to live, where I had my happiest memories, all
of that had gone. All that was left was a chemical factory. I realised
then that I could never go back to that happiness. So theres this
void. Under capitalism, the Social intervenes to make the transition
from childhood to the coffin whose name is adulthood (Eshun) doubly
traumatic. It is not just that you have lost the protection and
infancys guard; it is that the whole world of your childhood has been
redeveloped, bulldozed, reduced to a box full of monochrome
photographs. They are rebuilding the city Yes, always Striplit,
twenty-four hour Kapital grafts the artificial manic-depressive cycle
of the economy on top of the natural rhythms of the seasons. Kapital
is literally extraTerrestrial, since its crazed veering from
irrational exuberance to irrational dread, from boom to depression
bear, no relationship to processes of the Earth. Dead end lives at the
end of the seventies. There were Joy Division, Curtis doing what most
working class men still did, early marriage and a kid, the others
trapped in the slow, quiet hells in which most of the proletariat
endure their working lives. Feel it closing in Sumner again: When I
left school and got a job, real life came as a terrible shock. My
first job was at Salford town hall sticking down envelopes, sending
rates out. I was chained in this horrible office: every day, every
week, every year, with maybe three weeks holiday a year. The horror
enveloped me. SO the music of Joy Division was about the death of
optimism, of youth. Day in/ Day out Joy Division connected not just
because of what they were, but when they were. Mrs Thatcher just
arrived, the long grey winter of ergonomics on the way, the Cold War
still feeding our unconscious with a lifetimes worth of retinamelting
nightmares. JD were the sound of British cultures speed comedown, a
long slow screaming neural shutdown. Since 1956, when Eden took
amphetamines throughout the Suez crisis, through the Pop of the
Sixties, which had been kicked off by the Beatles going through the
wall on uppers in Hamburg, through Punk, which consumed speed like
there was no tomorrow, Britain had been, in every sense, speeding.
Speed is a connectivity drug, a drug that made sense of a world in
which electronic connections were madly proliferating. But the
comedown is vicious. Massive serotonin depletion. Energy crash. Turn
on your TV. Turn down your pulse. Turn away from it all. Its all
getting Too much. Check Bacteria grrrl's comment on the Rowan
Williams/theism/suffering post. No doubt there are those who will
object that, in our GA posts, Tim and I are 'imposing our fantasies'
on the women of the group. 'Really' (aha) Girls Aloud are just
'ordinary women', not imperious march mistresses. (Cue tabloid shots
of Cheryl stumbling out of a car.) But this impulse towards
pyschologization and personalization in short, Oedipalization is fatal
for the allure of Pop. What is Pop, after all, if not a machine for
producing fantasies? The fantasies Tim and I have woven around Girls
Aloud are not 'ours' but, then, no fantasy really belongs to any one,
on the contrary, as cizek argues, it is your fantasy that is
definitional of you they are an effect of the GA deliriumachine. By
contrast, the current occult hegemony of Gossip is often explicitly
resentful of Pop Glamour. The ostensibly 'liberating' gesture of
photographing Pop and film stars almost invariably female stars of
course in unflattering clothes, lights or situations is in fact an act
of vicious agression. The 'Realists' who delight in such
'demystification' are, like the antigone insurgents in Cronenberg's
Existenz, incredulously operating under the most lamentable and
unsupportable of assumptions the idea that you can strip away all
fantasy. The 'reality' they defend is, in fact, the ontology of a
depressive: grubby empirical, nothing ever adding up to more than the
sum of its parts, nothing worth getting worked up about, nothing
connecting with nothing. The resentment simmering behind the Glum
rejection of Glam is nakedly Oedipalizing. 'C'mon admit it, it's all
Oedipus really... all of this is just a charade, a pretence...' As if
it were possible to step outside masquerades and roles, as if were
possible to be just 'you'. The result of all this is the grim
spectacle of the likes of Robbie and Geri, both of whom proffer
postmodern neurosis as a substitute for performance. At the beginning
of their solo careers, both fell over themselves to assert that,
really, they were more than the role they were 'forced' to play in the
'manufactured' groups that made them name. Really they were unique
creative individuals hungry for the opportunity to express their inner
talent. Of course, when the mask slips away we do not encounter the
'real' person behind Take That Robbie or Ginger Spice, we encounter
another set of masks, albeit masks that are instantly disclaimed. How
many more videos will Halliwell produce in which she (yawn)
'deconstructs her image'? (She ought to be careful. Pop consumers are
notoriously sniffy about that kind of allegedly sophisticated
detachment, rightly sensing a rocks disdain for them. Kylie was only
able to refloat her floundering career when she ditched all the
metsing about that she first indulged in the atrocious 'Confide in Me'
video: different Kylies! Kylie self-consciously complicit in her own
commodification! Puhleaze....) The assertion of the 'real' me never
points to anything substantial, a full, authentic self with specific
content; no, the alleged 'real' is only present in the moment of
disavowal of the artificial. Hence the pathetic spectacle of both
Robbie and germ disclaiming every gesture they make, every pose they
strike, even as they strike them. I am too clever, too complex, to
ever be any of the roles I assume. So now Robbie is only ever
metaRobbie, germ is only ever metaGeri. (Girls Aloud, by contrast, are
going deeper and deeper into wilsonian hyperartificiality. With each
video they manage to look ever more unfathomable unnatural and
sleazysynthetic, instantatan and product thick multiplydyed hair
surely presaging the arrival of implant mirrorshades and retractable
claws...) What germ has never understood is that she was never a
fantasy object; she, like the rest of the Spice Girls, was a fantasy
subject, an off-the-shelf persona which any of the girl fans could
assume. In effect, the only germ that anyone was ever interested in
was the physical incarnation of that persona. As with GA, the fantasy
the Spice Girls mobilized was not of having sex with them but of being
them. As soon as the Spice Girls wanted to assert their 'real'
identities, the apathy that greets everything they now do was
inevitable. This is in part because of their refusal to be a Fantasy
kit which girls could wear, but also because they dissolved the
collectivity of the girl pack into individual Oedipii. Three minutes'
silence across Fortress Europe... You know that, whenever politics is
allegedly 'suspended', when 'differences' are put aside, you are face
to face with ideology in its raw state. This is not because
politicians use catastrophes as a smokescreen for forcing through
unpopular measures on the blindside (the Jo Moore syndrome). No: it is
because the ostensible 'suspension' of antagonisms is in and of itself
a political act. The very presupposition that there could be a ground
which is 'beyond politics' is bourgeois idealism in person. Three
minutes? Are we have to ten minutes, then, for the millions of a
victims of the slave trade ('the holocaust, the one that's still going
on' Chuck D)? No, because the ideological commitments underlying EU2's
'respect' are not hard to discern. The silence is not, we are led to
believe, a political gesture but what does that mean? That the victims
of the Tsunami were innocent victims unlike.... Well, the 'unlike' is
the issue... Unlike whom? Unlike those caught up in political
struggles, presumably... And why should we not 'respect' THEM? Well,
obviously because in some sense their difficulties are their fault...
Which is why, obviously again, we can justify protecting the borders
of Europe against this other type of dangerous flood. Who do the
privethedge Nazis think that 'asylum seekers' are, I wonder? Judging
by the level of vituperation and disgust that asylum seekers produce
behind those hedges, they couldn't possibly be the same poor, helpless
victims of natural disasters that are now, so we are told, worthy of
our charity, could they? Is The Wrong Side of Capitalism a figment of
my fantastic economy? Can it be possible that a blow can consistently
provide such jouissance ... and all with such elegantly fanged
political bite too? Come now, what else could I possibly say about a
webley which argues that Girls Aloud 'the antiCarrie Bradshaws' are
the harbingers of a new punk revolution? Read the whole site, but
especially all of this post on The Girls, in which Tim perfectly
identifies the erotopolitics of GA. 'Its occurred to me recently that
what I find most attractive about Girls Aloud is their apparent
apathy. Big brothers watching me, and I dont really mind, that is,
they mind a bit, but not enough to actually do anything about it.
Their expressions of generalised boredom (at which Kimberly is the
best, with Nadine a close second) are more alluring than come-hither
looks or, to put it another way, sulky pouts are better than sultry
ones (which is why Cheryl always looks better in the videos than in
photo shoots).' Yes, isn't that why 'The Show' was a perfect song for
them: i.e. 'Shoulda known, should cared' but actually didn't? And why
'I'll Stand By You' strikes such a false note: please, let us hope
that the machine behind GA realises that we do not need more
submissive, simpering females in Pop, and that what the Girls excel at
is a kind of imperiously languorous Ladytronic indifference? 'Jump'
worked because it was an expression of icy hauteur and ostentatious
caprice, the Lady laying down a hypothetical imperative without in any
way suggesting that compliance would guarantee reward. 'If you want my
kisses in the night, (Apologies for interruption of service; due to
serious problems with my flat, I have had to move all my stuff to
Scanshift's place for a while... Major upheaval obe so no time...
(Ab)normal service should be resumed tonight when I set up my
computer.... That which does not domesticate me, that which breaks my
habit lines, makes me stronger....) 'Man's creations have been
destroyed by Mother Nature...' (ITN news Sunday evening) (Ah, so it's
a woman's fault, as usual). Astonishing, really astonishing piece in
The Telegraph on Sunday by the Archbishop of Canterbury, in which he
said that it understandable that the tsunami has made believers
questions their faith in God. Thousands of people dying each day from
poverty, but that doesn't make us question our faith. Six million
exterminated in the Holocaust, but a merciful, lovng, personal God
could stand by and watch that happen. And previous natural disasters
that have destroyed whole populations, whole cultures. Pompeii,
Lisbon, Krakatoa. Even children know of these catastrophes. What is
Williams saying? That it took television pictures to suddenly bring
home to him the reality, the obvious reality, of the omnipresence of
human suffering, the indifference of nature, the sublime cruelty of
fate? What faith is this, that has never confronted such matters?
Williams must be being disingenuous, surely. It is not as if the
problem of suffering hasn't been recognized by theists as the most
intractable, most terrible dilemma to which belief in the personal God
gives rise. I can only assume that he was playing to the gallery,
cynically colluding with tabloid piety (which always goes alongside
tabloid cynicism the same old tawdry tits and tat, emotional and
physical pornography, the sensational collating of sex and catastrophe
that made the then still openly moralistic McLuhan recoil in horror
from newspaper front pages in The Mechanical Bride). As Williams is
well aware, the Christian response to evil and suffering has usually
taken one of two forms: the Augustinian and the irenaeus theodicies.
Augustine's brief was to ward off the Manichaean Heresy: the doctrine
that the universe is primordial divided into a Good and Evil, which
are in balance. Augustine used all his diabolic intelligence to
resolve the prima face irreconcilability of the belief that God
created everything with the (apparently) undeniable reality of Evil.
Yes, God created every Thing, Augustine insisted, but Evil is not a
Thing, it is not a substance, it is a privative, a lack, a failure of
the Good. The consequence of this was that, while Good was necessary
in order that Evil might exist, the reverse was not the case. Since
Evil is only a lack of Good, wherever there is Evil there must be
Good. Augustine uses the analogy of blindness. Blindness, like all
evils, could not exist in its own right; it was only a failure of
sight. Augustine supplemented this ontological account of Evil with an
'Historical' account derived from Genesis. Evil comes from Man (misled
by Woman, natch) turning away from God. Both Moral AND Natural evil
are consequences of this act of rebellion. No earthquakes or tsunamis
in Eden. Hence the doctrine of Original Sin; the formula 'sin is
either sin or the consequences of sin' allowing yahweh to attribute
his negligence to other, human, Fathers. Yet this 'justification' was
easily prey to the anguished protest Dostoyevsky's Ivan Karamazov
howled out: 'If they [children], too, suffer horribly on earth, they
must suffer for their fathers sins, they must be punished for their
fathers, who have eaten the apple; but that reasoning is of the other
world and is incomprehensible for the heart of man here on earth. The
innocent must not suffer for anothers sins, and especially such
innocents!' So now, even the Roman Church of Child abuse has all but
abandoned the cruel genius of Augustine, and turned to versions of
Ireanaus' theodicy. Irenaeus' adversaries were not the Manicheans, but
the Gnostics (and indeed much of our knowledge of Gnostic writings and
thoughts in fact comes from Irenaeus's satires and attacks upon them).
The Gnostics, like Hume and Schopenhauer after them, drew the obvious
conclusion from the endemic suffering and misery of the world: if the
planet was designed at all, they suggested, then it must have been the
work of a demented sadist. To combat this reasoning, Irenaeus argued
that it was plain that the world could not have been designed as a
place fitted for human happiness. It must then be what John Hick,
following Keats, calls a 'vale of soulmaking'. Evil and suffering are
challenges, opportunities for us to grow and develop as individuals. A
world without suffering would be a meaningless cartoon in which no
actions carried moral weight, since nothing anyone did would have any
real consequences. This rationalization of moral and natural evil does
nothing, really, to address the basic ontological scandal which
obtains as soon as there is one innocent who suffers. No divine plan,
no post hoc rationalization of suffering could possibly make good the
pointless agony of one child and a God who conceived of such suffering
as part of an overall divine plan would have to be a cruel and vicious
monster. 'Can you understand why a little creature, who cant even
understand whats done to her, should beat her little aching heart with
her tiny fist in the dark and the cold, and weep her meek resentful
tears to dear, kind God to protect her? Do you understand that, friend
and brother, you pious and humble novice? Do you understand why this
infamy must be and is permitted? Without it, I am told, man could not
have existed on earth, for he could not have known good and evil. Why
should he know that diabolical good and evil when it costs so much?
Why, the whole world of knowledge is not worth that childs prayer to
dear, kind God! I say nothing of the sufferings of grown-up people,
they have eaten the apple, damn them, and the devil take them all! But
these little ones! I am making you suffer, Alyosha, you are not
yourself. Ill leave off if you like. .... But what pulls me up here is
that I cant accept that harmony. And while I am on earth, I make haste
to take my own measures. You see, Alyosha, perhaps it really may
happen that if I live to that moment, or rise again to see it, I, too,
perhaps, may cry aloud with the rest, looking at the mother embracing
the childs torturer, Thou art just, O Lord! but I dont want to cry
aloud then. While there is still time, I hasten to protect myself, and
so I renounce the higher harmony altogether. Its not worth the tears
of that one tortured child who beat itself on the breast with its
little fist and prayed in its stinking outhouse, with its unexpected
tears to dear, kind God! Its not worth it, because those tears are
intoned for. They must be stoned for, or there can be no harmony. But
how? How are you going to atone for them? Is it possible? By their
being avenged? But what do I care for avenging them? What do I care
for a hell for oppressors? What good can hell do, since those children
have already been tortured? And what becomes of harmony, if there is
hell? I want to forgive. I want to embrace. I dont want more
suffering. And if the sufferings of children go to swell the sum of
sufferings which was necessary to pay for truth, then I protest that
the truth is not worth such a price. I dont want the mother to embrace
the oppressor who threw her son to the dogs! She dare not forgive him!
Let her forgive him for herself, if she will, let her forgive the
torturer for the immeasurable suffering of her mothers heart. But the
sufferings of her tortured child she has no right to forgive; she dare
not forgive the torturer, even if the child were to forgive him! And
if that is so, if they dare not forgive, what becomes of harmony? Is
there in the whole world a being who would have the right to forgive
and could forgive? I dont want harmony. From love for humanity I dont
want it. I would rather be left with the avenged suffering. I would
rather remain with my avenged suffering and unsatisfied indignation,
even if I were wrong. Besides, too high a price is asked for harmony;
its beyond our means to pay so much to enter on it. And so I hasten to
give back my entrance ticket, and if I am an honest man I am bound to
give it back as soon as possible. And that I am doing. Its not God
that I dont accept, Alyosha, only I most respectfully return him the
ticket.' Yes, suffering should make theists lose their infantile faith
in the Big Daddy. Which is why the only concept of God that makes any
sense, that offers any comfort, is the impersonal God, the God which
is Nature, and which has no will, which does not punish, and has no
interests or desires whatsoever. A (slightly) edited discussion from
alt.movies.kubrick. With contributions from Gordon Stainforth, editor
of The Shining. mark de rozario Sep 16 2002, 3:35 pm I want to
celebrate Kubrick's coldness and impersonality. Kubrick is no
Romantic: he does not buy into the overprivileging of the subjective
and the emotional . Nor is he, in any sense, a humanist: human beings
are not at the centre of his cosmos, and his account of humanity is,
to say the least, not positive. No arguments there, perhaps. But
concluding that his rejection of these doctrines makes him a cynic, a
nihilist or a remote modernist is to be misled by the humanism and
Romanticism his work so effectively challenges. Odd that someone who
made The Shining should be described as populating his films with
'emotionless zombies.' Jack's homicidal fury might be many things,but
emotionless? Likewise Wendy's sustained pitch of hysterical terror.
'Emotional zombies' would be a better description of Jack and Barry
Lyndon helpless coquette of the passions, dancing to someone else's
tune Kubrick is clinical, analytical, and that is his greatest service
to us. There is a difference between a director capable of depicting
emotions and one who is emotionally manipulative. Kubrick's films,
yes, are cold, impersonal but we have to think carefully about why
'hot' and 'personal' are the automaticallyprivileged terms in our
postRomantic culture. Kubrick shifts the focus away from the
subjective experiencing of emotions to the (social/ cultural/ biotic/
...) machines which produce those emotions. Unlike most Hollywood
filmmakers, Kubrick is no emotional pornographer the point is not to
identify with the characters. Such identification would merely
reproduce the redundant subjective narcissism upon which consumer
culture runs. What if the point were to escape from this hall of
mirrors? To see ourselves in these characters, yes, but from outside,
instead of from inside so that we appear not now as passionate
subjects but mannequins trapped within the hideous, remorseless
machines that produce and feed upon our subjective intimacies. We are
all in the Overlook locked into the treadmill repetition of someone
else's past mistakes, the viral time of abusebegettingabuse yet escape
is possible: but such escape is precisely out into the impersonal, the
emotionless, the cold of the Overlook snow rather than the heat of
Jack's passion. In this respect, Kubrick resembles Spinoza someone who
correlated passion with passivity, and who thought that freedom, far
from being the default position for human beings, was something
attained only when the dense accretion of repetitioncompulsions and
habitprograms which constitute human subjectivity was hacked through.
God, Spinoza thought, could not feel hate or love... mark de rozario
Oct 11 2002, 6:43 pm I wonder why it is that 'cold' and 'slow' are
automatically deemed to be negative. It is precisely Kubrick's
coldness and slowness that are missed in a contemporary culture that
is so obsessively 'warm' and 'fast'; ingratiating, emotionally
exploitative, relentlessly fidgety. Kubrick took us out of ourselves:
not via the transports of ecstatic fervour, but through the icy
contemplation of what drives and traps us, and the vision of a
universe indifferent to our passions. To see the mechanical deathless
of the human world from the perspective of that indifferent universe:
that is what Kubrick offered us. A vision of God (which is also an
approximation of God's vision). Kubrick returns why deny it? to an
essentially religious sensibility, although his religion is
'atheistic' in the same sense Spinoza's was. For Spinoza, God =
immanence, matter in itself, the gloriously dispassionate, desolate
cosmos. Kubrick evokes the desubjectified affects of awe and dread,
rather than the compulsory, sociallyendorsed, 'warm' emotions of
empathy/ sympathy, as homage to a universe whose indifference entails
not pessimism, but freedom:freedom from the miserable prison-house of
the human. Gordon Stainforth Oct 12 2002, 4:45 am Brilliant comment,
Mark, and I believe a v accurate summation of Kubrick. I think the
main characteristics of Hollywood style at the moment are:
sentimentality, speed, and noise. (i.e puerile sentimentality, high
speed cutting, and an excessively loud bang or explosion every few
minutes). Example: Spielberg's immensely disappointing 'Minority
Report' where the audience, bombarded by technical wizardry, ends up
having to watch people crying, with little idea or interest in what
they are crying about. Gordon Stainforth mark de rozario Oct 12 2002,
2:54 pm > I think the main characteristics of Hollywood style at the
moment are sentimentality, speed, and noise. (i.e puerile
sentimentality, his speed cutting, and an excessively loud bang or
explosion every fe minutes). Couldn't agree more. I guess what's
interesting about this is the tension between the quickcutting and the
sentimentality: the quickcutting gives films a disocciated,
schizophrenic quality (I'm thinking of Jameson's observation that
postmodern subjectivity is 'schizophrenic' in that it is unable to
synthesize a coherent sense of time), which is so abstract that you
would imagine it was evacuated of any emotion. I guess the
sentimentality is what 'glues together' what would otherwise be a
experience devoid of much connecting thread. Gordon Stainforth Oct 13
2002, 3:46 am An even sharper point. I would only disagree that the
sentimentality 'glues together' the fragmented, schizophrenic form I
think it merely gives the appearance of gluing it together. It's like
icing covering a hollow, emotionally evacuated, incoherent interior.
GS Thornhill Oct 12 2002, 5:23 am "Miserable prison-house of the
human"? Is that the bottom line with SK? When you look into the mirror
of his work, or hear the phrase, "What'll it be?," do you perceive
only the human miserable? You seem to make a point, then undercut it.
SK's films are, consciously, as much about his audiences as about the
characters and subjects he presents. To some degree, his work seems to
me as a guided tour of darker humanity by a kind of cinematic Virgil,
and for the benefit of his audience, Dante. We look upon this world,
often engorged with threaded and awful*, fury and blood, but, with
nothing more than a touch, the heart of the film says, "This is what
it is to be human. Maybe we can do no better....but, it is necessary
to SEE!". I suppose this "debate" comes down to the difference between
experiencing this "touch" as either cold, or as warm, and therein
applying value, as it goes. Most of the other "warms" are usually, and
emotionally, cheap, ingratiating, and fraudulent, and return little
more than a moment's escapade. The surgeon Virgil has different
business, though. The glint cold steel implements in his case are
there, necessarily, to 'hurt' in order to heal. This is also the job
of fine satire, which is (at the deep heart's core), a thing of warmth
and decency, humility and profound caring. This simple recognition is
absent for many, and that absence, particularly with regard to SK, is
a great pity. Thornhill * or, maybe it should be spelled "aweful."
What does awe have to do with religion, or a religious outlook?
Spiritual, yes, maybe, but what need for working awe to "religion"?
Sometimes 'ugliness' is deeply 'beautiful', and there can be awe, too.
mark de rozario Oct 12 2002, 1:29 pm cthornh...@worldnet.att.net
(Thornhill) wrote in message news: > "Miserable prison-house of the
human"? Is that the bottom line wit SK? When you look into the mirror
of his work, or hear the phrase "What'll it be?," do you perceive only
the human miserable? Not at all. I think Kubrick offers an alternative
to the 'human miserable', precisely by offering a nonhuman perspective
upon it. And this is in part because his films whilst often about
mirroring are not themselves mirrors. They do allow us see ourselves,
but from outside. > You see to make a point, then undercut it. How so?
>SK's films are, consciously, a much about his audiences as about the
characters and subjects h presents. To some degree, his work seems to
me as a guided tour o darker humanity by a kind of cinematic Virgil,
and for the benefit o his audience, Dante. We look upon this world,
often engorged with th dreaded and awful*, fury and blood, but, with
nothing more than touch, the heart of the film says, "This is what it
is to be human Maybe we can do no better....but, it is necessary to
SEE!". I'm not averse to this comparison, but how does it work? If
Dante the author is also the audience in the Divine Comedy, who is the
equivalent of this authoraudience figure in Kubrick? > I suppose this
"debate" comes down to the difference between experiencing this
"touch" as either cold, or as warm, and there applying value, as it
goes. Yes, I think there's more than an element of this. One can
either resist the familiar accusation that Kubrick is cold, or accept
it and re-evaluate the meaning of 'cold.' As is clear, I prefer to do
the latter. > Most of the other "warms" are usually and emotionally,
cheap, ingratiating, and fraudulent, and return little more than a
moment's escapade. The surgeon Virgil ha different business, though.
The glint cold steel implements in hi case are there, necessarily, to
'hurt' in order to heal. Are we 'hurt' by Kubrick though? I agree with
Lord Bullingdon; I have never cried at a Kubrick film. I have been
'moved' taken out of myself but not in the emotional sense. >This i
also the job of fine satire, which is (at the deep heart's core),
thing of warmth and decency, humility and profound caring. Thi simple
recognition is absent for many, and that absence, particular with
regard to SK, is a great pity. Some satire can be as you described,
but I should have thought that some (Swift, for example) can be pretty
misanthropic. I used Spinoza as a comparison to Kubrick because
Spinoza does very much what you suggest Virgil does, in the respect of
offering detailed diagrams of the way human beings systematically
trap, impede, and destroy themselves. 'Why do human beings love what
makes them miserable?' is the question Spinoza in anticipation of
Freud relentlessly poses. For Spinoza, passions are correlated with
passivity; freedom consists in leaving behind emotions, and achieving
abutment to a cosmos that is in the best sense pitiless. ('Godis
affected with no emotion of joy or sadness.') > * or, maybe it should
be spelled "aweful." What does awe have to d with religion, or a
religious outlook? Spiritual, yes, maybe, bu what need for working awe
to "religion"? Sometimes 'ugliness' i deeply 'beautiful', and there
can be awe, too. I prefer 'religious' in the qualified, atheistic
sense I presented before because I'm a materialist and do not want to
be committed to the existence of some non-material substance such as
'spirit'. I'm not particularly attached to the term, though. What I'm
interested in is a cosmic perspective, beyond the human and its
interests. (Interesting, BTW, that you chose to compare SK to a
religious text .) Yes, the ugly beautiful isn't that the sublime? What
escapes overcapacity to adequately represent it, what confounds our
conceptualcategories: there's a lot of that in Kubrick, too. Padraig L
Henry Oct 12 2002, 5:24 am While much of what you write is extremely
insightful about distantiation "within" the Kubrickean universe, are
you not also, seemingly, making the same mistake so indefatigably
parroted by LB of conflating Kubrick's aesthetic cinematic strategies
with his ownpersonal sensibilities, his own humanity? Why do you
classify contemplation of human folly and what might redeem or
transcend it as "icy"? ... >a universe whose indifference entails not
pessimism, but freedomfreedom from the miserable prison-house of the
human. And, presumably, freedom from fatalistic conceptions of the
human, as from the "miserable prisonhouse" of human indifference :)
But, again, you are invoking two apparently contradictory notions of
"warm" above: one as ingratiating, emotionally exploitative,
relentlessly fidgety i.e. the Hollywood mainstream, the other as
denoting emotions of empathy/ sympathy, however supposedly compulsory
their social endorsement may be. The latter "notion" of "warm" ,
though largely absent from a film like 2001 [the film upon which much
of your conception of Kubrick's cinematic world rests], actually
becomes central to such later work as Barry Lyndon and Eyes Wide Shut.
Are we getting "warm" yet? Padraig mark de rozario Oct 12 2002, 2:42
pm Interesting comments, as ever, Padraig. phe...@iol.ie (Padraig L
Henry) wrote in message ... > While much of what you write below is
extremely insightful abou distantiation "within" the Kubrickean
universe, are you not also seemingly, making the same mistake so
indefatigably parroted by LB o conflating Kubrick's aesthetic
cinematic strategies with his ow personal sensibilities, his own
humanity? I sincerely hope not. Call me a poststructuralist, but I'm
only interested in Kubrick the 'author' insofar as 'he' is manifested
in the work. :) I make no judgements whatsoever about Kubrick's
personal sensibilities or humanity. For 'Kubrick', read 'Kubrick's
films.' >Why do you classic contemplation of human folly and what
might redeem or transient it a "icy"? Good point. I guess because of
the association of passions with 'heat' by icy here I simply mean
'dispassionate' (in the Spinozist sense). > Kubrick evokes
thdesubjectified affects of awe and dread, rather than the
compulsorysociallyendorsed, 'warm' , as homage ta universe whose
indifference entails not pessimism, but freedomfreedom from the
miserable prison-house of the human. > And, presumably, freedom from
fatalistic conceptions of the human, an from the "miserable
prisonhouse" of human indifference :):) > But, again, you are invoking
two apparently contradictory notions o "warm" above: one as
ingratiating, emotionally exploitative relentlessly fidgety (fidgety
went with 'fast', rather than 'warm', but, yeah, point taken) >i.e.
the Hollywood mainstream, the other a denoting emotions of empathy
their social endorsement may be. Are they really contradictory,
though? I agree there's a less patently exploitative rendering of
sympathy/ empathy possible but wonder if this isn't just a more
sophisticated version of the same thing. The question of empathy is a
fascinating one, and calls to mind Worringer's distinction between
abstraction and empathy empathy is the emotion correlated with
'organic' or representational art (which reflects the subject back to
itself); abstract art, by contrast, is mechanical, devoid of a sense
of empathy (confronting the subject with something irrevocably
unassimilable). The two fuse in what he calls the Northern line
essentially, Gothic art culminating in the German expressionist
tradition in which there is 'a requisition of our capacity for empathy
(which is bound up with organic rhythm) for an abstract world which is
alien to it.' I think there's more than a hint of a continuation of
this Northern Line in Kubrick. >The latter "notion" of "warm" , though
largely absent from a film like 2001 [the film upon which much of you
conception of Kubrick's cinematic world rests], actually become
central to such later work as Barry Lyndon and Eyes Wide Shut. Good
point. 2001 is the film which most obviously fits the description of
the Kubrick oeuvre I gave; not so much, I think, because of its
absence of sympathy/ empathy in it, but because of its awestruck
vision of the cosmos, which isn't quite so evident in any of his other
films, before or after. I think we must distinguish the depiction of
emotion in a film from the emotion it stimulates in the audience and
from a film's emotional ethic (the kind of emotion a film, implicitly
or explicitly, recommends, privileges or endorses). In 'Hollywood',
the first two tend to collapse into each other, and the emotional
ethic is usually an invitation to wallow in a drippy sentimentality.
With Kubrick, there is a clear distinction between the emotions his
films depict and the reaction the audience has: the
distanciationeffect you talked of before, which not only happens
within the films, but between what the film is showing and how the
audience responds to it. All of Kubrick's films depict passions, but
none of them is 'passionate': they are about emotions, not
'emotional.' This is as true of news and BL (and TS, for that matter)
as it is of 2001. BL, TS, and news all anatomist human emotional
folly; all three are about problematics of empathy/ sympathy; but it's
not clear that they make us feel sympathetic or empathic. It's not
clear, for instance, that we identify with Dr Bill or Barry. The
fascination lies in the ambiguity of Kubrick's emotional ethic: what
does 'he' want us to feel? This isn't clear, to say the least, since,
thankfully, the films refuse to corral us into a simple response .
Evidently, that's why some choose to read the films as cold (in the
'normal','bad' sense), pessimistic, or disdainful and misanthropic: I
prefer to read them as attempts to simulate the dispassionate
perspective of the Spinozist 'God' a perspective which, because it
feels 'neither joy nor sadness', can liberate us from our own 'joys
and sadnesses.' > Are we getting "warm" yet? Let's hope not. :) Gordon
Stainforth Oct 13 2002, 3:59 am > On 11 Oct 2002 18:43:46 0700,
m...@diskontent.net (mark de rozario) > wrote: > While much of what
you write below is extremely insightful abou distantiation "within"
the Kubrickean universe, are you not also seemingly, making the same
mistake so indefatigably parroted by LB o conflating Kubrick's
aesthetic cinematic strategies with his ow personal sensibilities, his
own humanity? > I sincerely hope not. Call me a poststructuralist, but
I'm on interested in Kubrick the 'author' insofar as 'he' is
manifested i the work. :) I make no judgements whatsoever about
Kubrick's persona sensibilities or humanity. For 'Kubrick', read
'Kubrick's films.' Mark, I think you are absolutely correct here, yet
again! Stanley certainly believed that he as author/artist should only
be judged by his work, and that it had little or nothing to do with
his personal humanity. The irony,of course, is that he was a
surprisingly warm man at a family/domestic/social level. (In my
experience, almost like a different personality once we were outside
the cutting room) > Are we getting "warm" yet? > Let's hope not. :) I
think we are actually getting very warm here! in that this Spinozistic
analysis of Kubrick's view of the cosmos is, I believe, about as close
as we're going to get to his true position (IMHO). A very, very useful
reading, Mark GS o'keefe Oct 13 2002, 4:26 pm I think a great deal of
the ambiguity relies on SK's hesitation, possibly disdain, for
theatrical & subjective cinematic devices in his films. One could take
the "Shining" discussion between Danny and Hallorann, frame with some
slow zoomins, layer some synthetic haze, put some John Williams music
underneath and composite a few rays of light beaming down and have the
typical Spielberg scene, no? SK used handheld and Steadicam viewpoints
for occasional subjectivity, but the majority of his films are
formally composed still photography...thephotographer's view, the
observer's view, the "God's eye" view withbrilliantly chosen, and many
times "canned" music playing with certainscenes. There's a phrase I
sometimes think of with SK.."style is a result of limitations". This
may provoke uproar, but I feel that SK may have had no idea what would
be there with the finished film....until it was finished. A dedicated
artist, he worked on instinct and self-discovery with the material,
constantly revising and amending through every stage of the project,
with his passion for the the source story and exhaustive research his
primary guide. Just my $0.02. Regards, Steve Ray mails me with a
fantastic quote from Russell: "That Man is the product of causes which
had no provision of the end they were achieving; that his origin, his
growth, his hopes and fears, his loves and his beliefs, are but the
outcome of accidental collocations of atoms; that no fire, no heroism,
no intensity of thought and feeling, can preserve an individual life
beyond the grave; that all the labours of the ages, all the devotion,
all the inspiration, all the noonday brightness of human genius, are
destined to extinction in the vast death of the solar system, and that
the whole temple of Man's achievement must inevitably be buried
beneath the debris of a universe in rainfall these things, if not
quite beyond dispute, are yet so nearly certain, that no philosophy
which rejects them can hope to stand. Only within the scaffolding of
these truths, only on the firm foundation of unyielding despair, can
the soul's habitation henceforth be safely built." "A Free Man's
Worship", 1903.'All those architects and lawyers the most radical
thing they can imagine is burning down St Paul's School for Girls.
They don't realize their lives are empty.' 'Is that true? Most of them
love their children.' 'DNA. Biology's first commandment. Take no more
credit for loving your children than birds take credit for
nestbuilding.' 'Civic pride?' 'The gene pool's neighbourhood watch
scheme.' Ballard, Millennium People Deckard to Tyrell: 'How can it not
know what it is?' Gothic Materialism, Second Principle: There are no
subjects, there is only subjectMatter. Selves are no more immaterial
than electronic packets. Private persons are [...] simulacra. By now
you really shouldn't expect anything more, but the robust
intransigence of Human Security in the face of challenges from Cold
Rationalism is astonishing. Take Freud and psychoanalysis. Everyone
thinks they know what Freud says, it's all about sex*, been there,
done that, cognitive psychology has refuted it via empirical research,
normal service has been resumed. Freud himself provided the machinery
for understanding this immunoresponse. What Freud's discoveries like
those of Darwin before him provoke in the speaking animal is trauma,
and the automatic response to trauma is shutdown, anaestheticization.
This thing that is happening to me cannon be happening to me. Hence
the otherwise inexplicable outbursts of Hot Blooded Males (HBMs) when
confronted with Cold Rationalism. You tend to think, 'My god, can't
they read?' but then realise that what you are up against is as, it
seems, they will freely admit not anything rational, but a programmed
autonomic response from deep in the Mammalian defence strata. They
might as well just bare their teeth. What Human Security defends is a
species narcissism, a conviction that homo sapiens are special.
psychoanalysis acknowledges that the speaking animal has been cursed
by a feeling of its own specialness. But it does more than challenge
this notion of specialness, it shows that, yes, there is something
unique about human beings, but this uniqueness is above all the source
of specifically human miseries. Speech in particular in its form of
the 'internal dialogue' is the form of our curse. The speaking animal
can think, It thinks; unlike other animals, it tells itself, it can
reflect upon itself and its condition. And yet, as Schopenhauer
realised, we are the unhappy animal precisely because we are incapable
of animal narcissism, of living in the present, of just being what we
are. For the speaking animal, things including the animal itself do
not coincide with themselves. This is the Schopenhauerian/ Freudian/
Lacanian version of the Fall (The Fall, incidentally, is the only
aspect of Christianity about which Schopenhauer is not contemptuous).
Trapped in the world of Words or, to be more accurate, the world in
which Words and Things do not quite coincide the speaking animal can
either seek to commensurate itself with the arbitrary,
AliceinWonderland signifying labyrinth in which it is inserted and
identify with the Symbolic order, or else, grotesquely and impossibly,
seek to escape back to what preceded signification the myth of the
'Continunous', the preseparate, the Whole. In Lacanian terms, this
means a fixation on the Imaginary. Crucially, both these options are
tragic. Those who identify with the Symbolic order are the neurotics
marked by the No/Name of the Father, defenders of a 'reality
principle' which, far from being generated from any contact with the
Real, is a kind of articulation of the Symbolic order itself, the
vampiric voice of the big Other, which does not exist, but whose
fortifying effects are evident in every human CNS. By contrast, those
who identify with the Imaginary refuse the reality principle, but
inevitably confirm it, since their bid to be reunited with the
maternal body (and hence to cease to be) cannon succeed. Clearly, this
system offers nothing but a the opportunity to select your agony: the
famous Hobson's choice between ordinary misery and anguished insanity
that Freud, identifying with the Name/ No of the Father, famously
offered. But, far from being a rejection of Freud, the schizoanalytic
critique of psychoanalysis like the one presented simultaneously by
Irigaray proceeds on strictly Freudian principles. Freud has provided
us with the Radical Enlightenment description of the Human OS =
Anthropol, the speaking animal prison police. The question to be
posed, then, is why ally yourself with Anthropol? Why insert yourself
in the Symbolic order in this way? Why transcendentalize the arbitrary
confections dreamt up by a particular animal's sociobiotic coding? And
these questions are no more than a repetition of the endlessly
reiterating starting point of psychoanalysis, which was always, even
before Freud wrote the essay of that name, located beyond the pleasure
principle. What Freud had discovered in the consulting rooms of Vienna
was essentially a rediscovery of what Spinoza had demonstrated three
centuries before in Amsterdam. Far from being a rational agent, the
speaking animal is a vicious mammal with a seemingly infinite capacity
to devise ways to cause itself damage. There is a deliciously,
savagely ironic quality to this painmachine, as it operates by seeking
to reduce tension in the human organism. Since the organism
simultaneously experiences the reality principle as an intolerable
pressure and also knows, at the level of the unconscious, that its
identity nevertheless depends upon submitting to the symbolic order,
it will seek to escape the tension that it is by various means of
selfdestruction. The famous pessimism of Freud's works of the Twenties
and Thirties arose from confronting this hideous machine both on his
couch in the form of individual psychopathologies and in the
surrounding European culture, which had thrown itself into a hellish
war whose only rationale, Freud conjectured, could be found in a
libidinal impulse towards autoannihilation. Micro and macro Thanatos,
the death drive manifested in individual neurosis and species level
suicide. Now, in analysing the tendency of human beings to destroy
themselves, Freud is much more ready to count himself as the successor
of Nietzsche than of Spinoza. Freud was enthused by Nietzsche's
psychology of anthropoid selflaceration, and these analyses, as
presented in their most developed form in The Genealogy of Morals,
also prove indispensable to Deleuze and Guattari's AntiOedipus. These
are the most important passages in Nietzsche's writings, and certain
other of Nietzsche's most significant ideas especially his idea of
motivational analysis, that we should look to the philosopher for the
key to the philosophy feed into the psychoanalytic truism that there
is no 'objectivity'; in other words, there is no libidinal neutrality,
everything that we want has designs upon us. But Nietzsche also lends
himself to appropriation by the ideologues of the cultural logic of
late capitalism. The first chapter of Beyond Good and Evil effectively
argues that ad homines attacks are not only justified, they are the
only type of legitimate philosophy. But Nietzsche's assaults on
philosophers are not even wellsubstantiated; they are a kind of a
prior ad homines attacks along the lines of, 'You MUST be saying this
because.....' Nietzsche presents, for instance, Spinoza as a loner and
failure, something that was much more of Nietzsche himself than of
Spinoza if we are to believe the biographical accounts. Nietzsche's
great enemy, the foe to which he keeps returning, is Indifferentistm,
as expressed through the philosophies of Spinoza, Kant , schopenhauer
and the Stoics. What is his problem with these thinkers for Nietzsche?
It is not that he substantively disagrees with them about their
philosophical descriptions of the world. It could hardly be that:
Nietzsche's critique of the Cartesian cogito had already been executed
by Kant, while his dismissal of anthropomorphic and absolutist
conceptions of Good and Evil (along with many other of his major
conceptual commitments) had been rehearsed by Spinoza. You begin to
suspect, rather, that it is the proximity of Nietzsche's thought to
the Indiferentists which provokes his agitation. His objections are at
a metalevel, and are in essence twofold. First, the Indifferentists
pretend to speak from a truth that exceeds their own embodied
perspective. In Nietzsche's outrage here, you can hear a preach of all
the doxa that will be passed off as radical in the liberal academy in
the late twentieth century. Nietzsche may well have been the first
philosopher to make the disastrous move that has now become a
commonplace amongst proponents of the 'politics' of difference: from
the obvious truth that many philosophies affecting to speak from
universality have in fact expressed, albeit unconsciously in many
cases, a partial, white male perspective, they conclude that
universality is ITSELF white and male. The way is then open to
multiplication and marketing of 'differences', and the 'politics' of
solipsism, one of Kapitalism's greatest ideological weapons. Secondly,
Nietzsche complains, the indifferentists are too detached, not EXCITED
enough. They believe, erroneously according to Nietzsche, that they
can SUBDUE their passions. Such a subduing is not possible, of course
(the will to subdue the will is just another will) and, besides, it is
undesirable. Indifference is a denial of perspectivity, the very
condition of life. Perspectivity may well be the condition of life,
but why be on the side of life? Freud's painstaking analyses and
speculations in Beyond the Pleasure Principle have established that
all vital energies are ultimately in the service of death; khanates
runs the organic show from the very start and up to the very End: life
is a deviation on the way to death. Deleuze and Guattari try and save
vitalism with the notion of 'nonorganic life' , but they are avoiding,
or at least deflecting, the insight that Spinoza (whose impersonal
mechanics had no place for the lifedeath distinction). Schopehnauer,
Freud and Lacan based their work upon: the perception of an inorganic
flailing which manufactures the socalled vital as part of its
indifferent process of endless production without final cause. Kant
called this pursposiveness without purpose, Schopenhauer blind will,
Freud, Thanatos. Nietzsche saw himself breaking away from
Schopenhauer's pessimism by rejecting what he saw as his monism. There
is only life, life is only will, we must affirm the will. In other
words, we must affirm what we are (=) becoming. Hence Nietzsche's
allegedly impersonal philosophy which decries subjectivity as a kind
of contamination of thought by grammar ends up as an Egotism all but
indistinguishable from a cult of personality. The danger, the great
temptation, is to retain the dualism between the impersonal and the
personal that Freud had so expertly dismantled. Ray put this to me
very well once: we cannon think in terms of an opposition between the
personal and the impersonal, as if granny doing her knitting was the
personal, and the impersonal was the remorseless, gleaming wheels of
the capitalist megamachine. No. Granny too is impersonal, and the
capitalist megamachine produces personality alongside cars and
computers. The great Cold Rationalist lesson is that everything in the
socalled personal is in fact the product of impersonal processes of
cause and effect which, in principle if not in fact, could be
delineated very precisely. And this act of delineation, this stepping
outside the character armour that we have confused with ourselves, is
what freedom is. cizek puts this brilliantly in carrying with the
Negative, in his analysis of Blade Runner: 'Blade Runner ... gives a
double twist to the commonsense distinction between human and android.
Man is a replicants who does not know it; yet, if this were all, the
film would involve a simplistic reductionist notion that our
selfexperience qua free "human" agents is an illusion founded upon our
ignorance of the causal nexus which regulate our lives. For this
reason, we should supplement the former statement: it is only when, at
the level of the enunciated content, I assume my replicants status,
that, at the level of enunciation, I become a truly human subject. "I
am a replicant" is the statement of the subject in its purest the same
as in Althusser's theory of ideology where the statement "I am in
ideology" is the only way for me to truly avoid the vicious circle of
ideology (in the spinoza version of it: the awareness that nothing can
ever escape the grasp of necessity is the only way for us to be truly
free). In short, the implicit thesis of Blade Runner is that the
replicants are pure subjects precisely insofar as they testify that
every positive, substantial content, inclusive of the most intimate
fantasies, is not their own, but already implanted.** In this precise
sense, the subject is by definition nostalgic, a subject of loss.'
(4041) It is for this reason that DeleuzeGuttari say that the subject
arrives 'at the end' the product of a machine process which
misrecognizes itself as the process's final cause. capitalism requires
you to identify with yourself as 'the subject of loss', the crippled
neurotic who lacks the power to act, sentimentally attached to an
interiority which was never there. Theism has retreated, not vanished.
The conviction that there is a Factor X, some inexplicable, ineffable
residue over and above genetics, neurology and social coding that
makes you you this is the 'soul supersition' that Nietzsche rightly
exoriated. It is the belief that the human is ultimately explicable in
biographical and personal terms which Cold Rationalism emphatically
rejects, maintaining, rather, that the personal and the biographical
are only explicable in machine and impersonal terms. All of which is
why ignoring or extricating references to the socalled personal on
punk would be very obviously failing to achieve Spinozist rational
consistency. Spinoza responds in advance to Nietzsche's injunction
that philosophy must be subordinated to action it is how we live that
matters, not the consistency of our thought (unlike Nietzsche,
however, Spinoza recognizes that we cannon just produce Bubble
Economic Matrix Bedtime stories at will just to make life better for
ourselves). But the scandal of Spinoza's thought is that it allies
LOGICAL consistency with ETHICAL consistency. Human behaviour is
explicable using the same geometric grids that have been produced by
mathematicians. It is here that hms usually recoil in horror. But part
of their antipathy is based upon the unromantic misunderstanding of
reason and the rational, which it equates with a kind of rigorist
commonsense (but, as Kant showed, commonsense is precisely that which
cannon be 'rigorised'). It is this sense of the rational that is
invoked when, faced with anomalous phenomena, characters in films
proclaim that 'There must be a rational explanation for this'. The
anomalous is not irrational. Reason is not commonsense. Rationality
does not disclose a world that fits with the Human OS scanning pattern
at all. Which is why Cold Rationalists are psychotics. But that's (the
beginning of) another story. * Freud says the opposite of course. For
humans, there is no sex, in the 'biological' sense. Sex for speaking
animals is nothing but signs. There is no desire for sex with the
mother, since the socalled desire for sex with the mother is, in
reality, a desire to have done with what both 'sex' and 'the mother'
represent, i.e. organic individuation. ** As if to prove the point
that all thought is manufactured, compare this with the sections in my
thesis about Blade Runner. cizek has been the major influence in
allowing me to see that psychoanalysis, far from being troubled by
what I was saying there, actually argued precisely that. Which is why
it is still troubling to Human Security. Obv, I hadn't read Simon's
list when I produced mine in splendid isolation in Wales. (Good job I
forgot to include my 'Most Pointless' category unopposed winner:
Goldie looking Chain. Comedy rap in 2004. Why? or we'd have been
almost TOTALLY at loggerheads.) But I have to say, and it'll be no
surprise to any of ya this question in respect of Skinner 'is he
staying in cos hes in love with the girl or the weed?' neatly sums up
why I loathe The Streets. Imagine the state of abjection you would
have to be in to EVEN CONSIDER preferring weed to a woman. I suppose
that's what it is to be a lad, though. :) Best of times, worst of
times, all that. Perhaps mercifully, I cant remember much from the
start of 04  intermittent continuity gaps being one of the
consequences of periodic mental debilitation  but I like to think that
my recovery is more than a personal matter (and only partly because
there is nothing personal). When I started kpunk, things couldnt have
seemed more hopeless. The APE was running the show, no amount of
encouragement from the likes of Luke and Matt could convince me that
what I was typing wasnt abject And yet, the writing continued I must
go on, I cant go on, Ill go on Proof that writing, far from being
about selfexpression, emerges in spite of the subject. The role of the
debased collective machine in getting me out of Hell cannon be
underestimated. It cant only have had that effect on me. Whats
happening on the web is part of a wider cultural switchover. Effective
analysis of capitalism was well nigh impossible during the Bubble is
apparently victorious Kapital programmed both the irrational
exuberance of its slaves and the depression of its enemies. But now,
Kapitals techniques are visible, and thats half the battle. When you
realize youre dealing with a political pacification program that aims
to emigrate you, when you see that there are no relative autonomies,
that AntiCapital is not only possible, its already happening  you know
youre in a war in which the highest imaginable stakes are up for
grabs. The war is always here and now fought in, over and through the
nervous systems of human beings. For me at least, 2004 was the year in
which polo finally died. And if thats not a reason to celebrate, I
dont know what is. No Inferno in PoMo, only a purgatory in which we
were condemned to shambles , vaguely irritated, vaguely emolliated,
through the triplet soft delirium of the End of History Supermarket.
No way out of its seamless aisles, all will to escape debilitated in
any case. A fake Forever, in which the future meant more of the same
and the past was processed only as a precursor to this. It was always
going to end up here, didnt you know?. When faced with questions of
injustice or of the systemic inequity of Kaptial, the two things that
students routinely say are, Theres nothing you can do about it and
thats just one interpretation, its all a matter of opinion.
ventriloquist of Kapital, the stock phrases evidence that
Postmodernism is a deeply entrenched (anti) political program... Its
telling, if predictable, that the two aspects of Nietzsches thought
which meet least resistance are those which feed into postmodern
quietism. Nietzsches aestheticism, or, rather his aestheticization,
his claim that life, not truth, is the only criterion for making
judgements, and, crucially, that life is a work of art, dovetails
easily into his epistemology, his wellknown dismissal of universality
in the name of embodied perspectivity. By contrast, Nietzsches
genuinely radical critique of the subject, personality and resentment
i.e. those parts of his thought which point away from postmodern
Romanticism and towards an austere structuralism are accepted only in
a gestural and academic way. Yes, it can be acknowledged that,
philosophically, the notion of the subject cannon be sustained, but
only so long as we think that really, in everyday life, that doesnt
matter and that, really, at the end of the day, the truth of what we
are is subjectivity and biography. Naturally, it is in this really, in
this supposed turn away from theory, that we encounter the most
important theory of all  the unspoken metapolitical script that
sustains the current scanning pattern we are invited to think of as
reality. The hostility and the derision that the Cold Rationalist
dismissal of (uninteresting) fictions such as biography and
personality still meets is ample evidence that, though most educated
types will have felt the need to go through a window-dressing
deference to structuralism and cybernetics at some point in their
lives, structural and systemic thought remain radically unassimilable.
All too often, such ideas are used as aesthetic ornamentation to dress
up old ontologies, ways of reading that boat the academys voracious
and vacuous interpretosis. Against interpretation, against writing
conceived of as an act of selfexpression, against aestheticism yes but
none of this entails an antimusic, antiope stance. Far from it. The
question of what the relationship between sonic culture and politics
can be is far from resolved, obviously. Was punk what Britain had
instead of 68? Does the centrality of sonic to punk mean set it up for
aestheticism reterritorialization? Yes, sonic are immediately
affective in a way that visual art and literature are not. But that
doesnt mean that they must be irrational intoxicants any more than
they must be celebrityconsumer background muzak. So.... sonic Singles:
Top 9 Avril ravine  Dont Tell Me. Avril takes a tough stand against
Male Sex Virus. Get outta my head/ get offa my bed  Cmon admit it, if
it was by anyone else youd love it. Dont tell me what to do/ dont tell
me what to say/ youre better off that way. Had those lines in my head
at work many times this year, I can tell you. whitney Toxic. whitney
resumes her throne as Queen of Pop, and raises the stakes,
establishing that, for Pop not to be swaggeringly, swooning d hectic
and John Barry lush in 04 is just plain slack. Given extra unlike by
the turbocharged Armand van helen rex sounds like Visage's 'Tar'
(check it). Usher Yeah. 04s Billie Jean. The morning after the night
before, intoxication devolving into anxiety, cut memories resolving
into an enigma: what happened? Usher the Zeroes Jacko: a funk puppet
slave to the r and b, subordinating Ego to groove in a way that our
tawdry theatreschool princess (Robbie, Geri) couldnt even dream of.
Not even Ludacris lewd carnality can foul up the high come down
hyperabstraktion of Lil Jons postage production. (Incredibly, on My
Boo, Usher also managed to rescue Alicia Keys from the oblivion of
coffee table tastefulness.) Destinys Child  Lose My Breath. An
imperious return, hyperenergetic in a way that Beyonces solo ballads
were lugubrious treacleslow lethargic. DC back with the experimental
avantPop that was their trademark, raising expectations that the album
couldnt have disappointed more spectacularly. After Soldier, there is
nothing . kane West  Slow Jamz. Could have chosen any of the singles,
but plumped for Slow Jamz because it was the breakthrough cut,
acquainting rap with a melted, courtly deferential male desire that,
via Blackstreets No Diggity, it made fleeting contact with a decade
ago. Girls Aloud  The Show. Sleek, modern, efficient, confident, and
preposterously addictive. Pop as it should be: massproduced,
impersonalmachinic and fronted by supersynthetic gyndroids. Rachel
Stevens  Some Girls. Richard X continues to put the modernism back
into postmodernism, shamelessly (re)vamping Goldfrapp,
Frankensteinreanimating Glam stomp and rewinding Pop to when it had a
future. Morrissey  Irish Blood, English Heart. Noone can have been
more surprised than Morrissey to find himself suddenly relevant in the
UK in 2004. Selected if only as a reminder of the oncevibrant punk
comments boxes. In retrospect, the Morrissey discussion was the
beginning of the end for high quality discussion here, as male
antlerrubbers couldnt resist the temptation to boybait, leaving blood
in the water that would inevitably draw other Trollsharks in.
christina milan  Dip it Low. Shows that beathiccoughing,
spasticcoloned slick R and B is not dead. Special mentions to:
Jamelia, Thank You (Nietzschean single of the year, in every good way,
but someone have a word with her stylist, shes definitely the worst
dressed in Pop); Natasha berinsfield (all three singles), kells Trick
Me, anastasia (in a world of smaller than life bookish 'cool she dares
to be ridiculous). Albums: Top 6 Epochal kane West College Drop Out,
Junior Boys Last Exit Two LPs that, otherworldly and pneumaLight,
couldnt have less to do with the bloke n being kylie heaviness of the
current Brit occult climate. By etherealizing hiphops rhythmic engine,
they disabuse us of the oppressive delusion that there is any
necessary connection between rhythmic invention and the dour, sour
surliness of masculine acquisitive aggression with which hip-hop has
habitually coupled it for so long now. They made us hate ourselves and
love their wealth  The drug of choice for both producers is abstract
oestrogen, the antidote to the testosteroneheavy popcultural diet of
bang for your buck spec(tac)ular overstimulation. Both are High Come
Down records, postrave, latenight, tactile, hypersensual The rest
dizzy Rascal  Showtime dizzy avoids the Goldie trap, by not allowing
flatterers to deceive him. So, no, there wont be guest slots from
Justin Hawkins on guitar or that drip from coldly on vox, thanks very
much. Showtime is the sound of a terrible isolation, but a willed
isolation that is the consequence of steely resolution and calm
confidence. The Roll Deep clamour of the first LP is gone, and with
it, the exhilarating abstraction of its PlayStationconstructed cartoon
constructivism. Whats left is a brooding bass ooze, a kind of viscous
half-speed Jungle, and Dizzee, alone, an interloperobserver in the
restricted areas to which his success has given him access. Showtime
is the postGarage Exile on Mainstreet, and also, in its outsiders
insight into the English deer park world of cocaine prosperity, 04s
answer to 82s Hex induction Hour. whitney My Prerogative: Greatest
Hits Easy to forget how many perfectly produced cyberpopconfections
whitney has been the fleshvoice component in. My Prerogative is a
delicious reminder, an ecstasy rush through all the hits. Hits indeed.
Because Britneys masochistic Pop may all turn out to be about
different meanings of the word hit. If it all started with a
schoolgirlsubmissive invitation to do her emotional violence, Britneys
seemingly fatally stalled career was revived last year with a less
than subtle entreaty, I need a hit baby, give me it  And if, as Angus
says, a world without Toxic in it is scarcely imaginable any more, its
easy to forget how plaintive and pathetic that line was in danger of
sounding when the single was released. Last year, it was whitney who
looked past it, the appalled Justin looking on as his Ex was
apparently reduced to kissing Madonna on MTV in what for all the world
looked like a desperate bid for attention, any attention. Britneys
inspiration, Madonna, had so eclipsed her that the invitation to
appear in the MTV Awards show number looked like a humiliating act of
pity; her chief rival, Christina, was striding forward in an Amazonian
march of autoexploitative, biglunged success; and critics were falling
over themselves to heap praise upon Justins neptune and
Timbalandproduced LP. Toxic reversed all this, and the greatest hits
comp reveals a wealth of Pop treasures that expose Xtinas back
catalogue for the litany of yowling banality that it is. N*E*R*D are a
laughing stock, and, with a years perspective, its easy to see that
the singles they produced for Justin, while presentable enough, arent
a patch on Slave 4 U, Chad and Farrells best production, bar none. sfa
was wrong: far from being a victim of rockism, Justin (still male,
still tasteful, with impeccable influences Off the waller Jacko, Soul
to which rockets readily defer) actually benefited from a crypt or
rearguard rocks But whitney  vulgar and tasteless, machinemanufactured
in the Trailer parkMTVmilitaryindustrialentertainment complex and with
ABSOLUTELY NO SOUL any of us consumers care about  is still the litmus
test of antirockism. Go on, admit you love her. marine and Virus
Syndicate Christmas Day Your children are not your children, for they
dwell in the house of tomorrow, which you cannon visit even in your
dreams. Epigraph on the did of the first series of The Tomorrow
People, my brothers Christmas present to me. Intermittent flurries of
snow, snow on the peaks of the mountains we can see from our front
room but not a white Christmas, quite. By the estuary, a flock of what
we later determine might be sandpipers in flight. The astonishing
cybernetics of flocking. The flock as flight machine in which
individual birds are microsensitive components, so superfast in its
vertiginous veering changes of direction that the human
perceptualconscious system hasnt a hope of keeping track. Kylie
megamix on TOTP reminding us of how much enjoyment she could provide
when she was just a flesh component in the SAW hit machine before her
main job was Being Kylie, as it is now . It was like the Faustian deal
with the tabloids to necromantically revive her career stipulated
that, if she really wanted to come back, all she could do was play the
simpering simpersona, the death mask surgicalsmiling stopford sex
worker, FOREVER . Leans Great Expectations: a study in condition and
compression. You sigh with relief and recognition, remembering there
is nothing remotely theatrical about Leans expressionistic version of
Dickens Grimmest fairy tale. Character actors seemingly selected more
for how their features will cast shadows than for their capacity to
declaim. (If that was the case, naturally, I approve.) Exactly when
was it that the British lost the ability to think filmically? Great
Expectations, a misogynisticMasochistic delirium, in which Dickens
imagines the Lady Thing  the sweetest queen, the unattainable
womanobject cooked up in a lab of female resentment and revenge. A
Horror that is closer to Blade Runner than Vertigo: there is no real
Estella in the way that there is a real Judy distinct from the
fantastic Madeleine. The estella is a construct all the way down. Peel
it away, and there is Nothing (which vacancy is the perfect support
for Pips fantasies, of course). For that reason, its necessarily the
case that any actual actress must needs fall short of achieving the
sublime dignity of Das Ding. Perhaps the screen Estella should have
been a blank space . In the way that Pip is shot, late on in the film,
coming into a doorway, just a top-hatted silhouette, a Void, the
filling out of someone else's (Magwich's) fantasy. In Satis House,
Estella and Pip are meatmarionettes in the deathly eternity of Miss
Havishams externalized unconscious (time and space mean nothing in the
Ucs  Freud), the one already a replicantFemme fatal cruelty machine (I
have no heart, Pip) refurbished with false memory, the other the
coarse labouring boy for whom the simulation is played out, awaiting
his own destiny as the victimplaything in anothers fantasy. You can
plot lines from here to the frustration and rage of the Whos
Substitute, much of the Kinks, the Jam, the Smiths: the English
interlock of class and desire. Simultaneous, irreconcilable pulls: to
make something of yourself and to be true to where you have come from.
English, all-too English, which is why the American version of a few
years back made no sense. America prides itself, is ideologically
structured around, what must always here be a source of unbearable
shame. Sex is semiotic through and through in Great Expectations,
saturated with statuslust. Does Pip want to be a gentleman for the
sake of Estella, or does he want Estella because she (seems to be) of
pure and noble breed? Desire is irreducibly social from the start,
Estella inseparable from the scenes and settings in which she is
encountered. Dickens is well aware that, in love, the (co)incidental,
the contingent becomes the Necessary. THAT was where we met, THAT day,
you wore THAT dress . (btw, its impossible to imagine a novel written
from the pop of Estella, because the Horror of Estella is that she has
no point of view, no interiority [no heart], she is nothing apart from
what she seems to be to men.)The comparison with Harry Potter on BBC1
does Chris Columbus sloppy cashing no favours. I havent seen it before
and try to make myself show some interest whilst cooking dinner. I
cant. This is possibly the least magical film ever made. Looking for
the fantastic in a Fantasy flick is like searching for politics in the
House of Commons. A joyless digital pantomime, lit like a supermarket,
with that strange flatness that is the signature of CGI productions.
Lots of kids being surprised and awestruck, going WOOOOOOOOOOAHHHHHHHH
(a sound that only evokes Steven Spielberg trying to evoke children
being surprised and awestruck). Flashing lights and crashing noises,
curiously reminiscent of the video for Total Eclipse of the Heart. And
everything is SO BIG. AcTor knights allowed to do what they do best,
i.e. ham it up and reduce cinema to the level of theatre. Maggie
Smith, Zoe Wannamaker, could anything be more Sunday afternoon
familiar, more Sunday supplement worldly? Impossible to imagine this
being watched in 50 years as the predigital Disney films still are.
Its car boot sale cinema, a shoddy piece of merchandising, a
disposable testament to Millennium Dome Capitalism. Like the
Watchowski Brothers and Tarantino, rolling is a marketing genius,
nothing more. Postmodern gangster, postmodern SF, postmodern Fantasy.
Give people exactly what they remember a genre is all about, add a
smidgeon of irony/ contemporary cultural reference to taste, count the
money. Plus theres something disgustingly blaikie about all this
Public School shit. If you dream and dream and bewieve, really believe
are very very lucky, you too can go to a BIG school with Houses and
blazers, ancient rule books, competitive sports and bewhiskered old
patriarchs . Because of course thats what we all want. From Harry to
Dennis Potter. White magic of Oedipus. Everything compelling,
disturbing and exhilarating about Potter is lost beneath a ponderous
parade of personal anecdote in the deeply disappointing BBC2
documentary produced to commemorate the tenth anniversary of his
death. All due respect, but did we really have to hear about what his
family think at such length? Where were the critics, the theorists?
biographies is the death of literature. Discuss. Point is, Potters
life was up there, onscreen. Not straightforwardly there was
synthesis, compression, reversal, disavowal, all the dream work,
naturally. And not presented with the tiresome fauxobjective
empiricomongering that is now nearobligatory amongst documentary
makers. The reason why the plays are infinitely more Real than this
real life reality TV (in which people, as ever, play themselves,
badly) is because they recognize that the fantastic is integral to any
possible subjective experience. But all this is ignored, because, in
order to flatten out Potters work into biographia expressivism, his
modernist/ formalist innovations have to be downplayed. Dont Pennies
from Heaven and The Singing Detective prove the point I was trying to
make last time, though? Structural analysis of songs  and of The Song
doesnt preclude the songs doing their old black magic. To be in love
is to be lip lynching to someone elses composition, to offer a karaoke
rendition of the oldest number in the songbook. Have to go outside.
The women in my life will disagree (Freud: what do women want?;
Infinite Thought: to be WARM), but this cold thing is really literal;
the meatTVcentral heating machine is enervating, a few hours of carnal
consumption and a drowsy numbness pains my sense, whereas the Cold is
stimulating, revives thought, animation. A cigarette that the wind
smokes more of than I do dissolves into paper and sparkles in double
quick time. Full moon I think. Deep darkness, hills bible black, as DT
said. Back in Deganwy, midway between Llandudno and Conwy, for
Christmas. 1. A world away from last Christmas, when the Alien
Parasite Entity had me by the CNS. Escaped being on the Psych ward by
a hairs breadth. A world away As Ive said before, what separates
clinical depression from sadness or melancholy is not only its chronic
persistence but its ontological claims: this is the Truth of the
world, the Truth of what you are . 2. Already gearing up to the faster
pace of life here. You can get ten times as much done in a day here,
without the kylie gravitational pull of a massive (over)population
dragging everything down into sclerosis slowness. Because from out
here London seems, as Ballard never wastes an opportunity to sneer, so
nineteenth century. A walk to the end of the street an Odysseyean
quest . The sheer long density, organisms pressed together into the
zombie meat trucks like a fastbreeding reptile colony under glass
.Necks twisted so as to ensure that catching anothers gaze is not even
an option, the sociallyrequired posture of mutual passive aggression
freezing faces into expressionless rictus masks (Daleks dressed as
humans marking their territory with a briskly brandished wall of
Evening Standards) Is there any reason that the future shouldnt be
more like this, though? Werent we all supposed to be able to live in
quiet places if we wanted to now that the Net can connect more or less
anywhere to anywhere else? Why dont we leave London and its Human
Plague to fester in its filthy, simsweltering microclimate? Modernity
and modernism dont necessarily equate with modernization. We should
never forget that. 3. A scene straight out of Zizek. Were about to
have dinner. I am going to have a glass of silver (the punk soft drink
of choice) and I ask my dad if he wants to try it. He says hed liked
to, and since my mum says nothing, I assume that she wants to stick
with her usual choice, water. So I pour a glass of silver for my dad
and myself, and a glass of water for my mum. She takes a swig,
grimaces and then hands it back, saying, You have it. Im puzzled. Isnt
that what you wanted? Well, I did want to try it, but I dont like it,
its a bit tasteless  But, its water. Isnt that what you wanted? Yeah
.thats what I wanted. But wasnt THAT Shloer? No? Give it me back to me
if its water, thats what I wanted, yeah  4. The If debate on BBC2
Neurofascists tracing back violent crime to neurology As Oliver James,
a man for whom I gained new respect, pointed out: well, of course,
anger and violence are neurologically instantiated but that tells us
nothing about causation . Pleased to see that James forcefully asserts
that experimental data emphatically demonstrates that genetics has
minimal impact upon propensity for violence. Much less violence in
Switzerland, genes substantially the same. What, short of
neurosurgery, is the solution favoured by neurocops then? Well, better
nutrition, cognitive stimulus and more affection and, of course, these
factors are NOTHING WHATSOEVER to do with class? The problem with
neurofascists and genetic determinists is that they are not reductive
enough. Their whole libido consists in playing the Pantomime Evil
Theorist bunker role in relation to fluffy Romanticism so that their
positivism still leaves in place a distinction between neurology and
emotions, the social etc. 5. Listening to the first Roxy album while
walking along the beach Wednesday evening. Would say it was
glamorously windswept, but that doesnt get anywhere close to the
battering pressure of the wind coming off the Irish Sea. You were so
pure/ not for this/ world  Think again about this Dionysian thing. Who
is less Dionysian than Roxy? Extract from my reference from Hull
University, circa 1990. Makes me sound kinda cool, but employable...
hardly.... (Still, Kafka was good at his job by all accounts....) Tim
Wrong Side of Capitalism takes and brilliantly runs with some of my
problems with Friedrich. The father's law: 'don't touch your mother.'
The mother's law: 'don't play in the tombs.' Land, 'No Future'
parricide too is necessary. Killing the Father might not be as easy as
it looks, if only because the Father is the alwaysalready dead god,
zombie despotdeity who acquires power only on the presupposition of
his own absence. Freud's analysis of this process in 'Moses and
Monotheism' remains exemplary, and Lacan only draws the consequence of
it in his 'The Death of God'. The absent God of Jewish Monotheism is
nothing other than the guilt that the apes of the primal horde feel
for killing the FatherMaster, he who has the sovereign right to total
enjoyment. Coiled plexus of phantasm: is the Primal Horde of jealous
betamax monkeys itself only a phantasm, the backprojected narrative
cooked up to retrospectively make sense of the circulated appearance
('it comes like lightning') of the big Other? Or does the fantasy of
the violent parricide of Master Monkey Pere Jouissance belong to these
primate slave moralists, these fuming resentful manimals, hot with
angry blood? Or, was there no fantasy at all, in other words: did it
'really' happen? A conundrum as old as psychoanalysis. (Psychoanalysis
is that conundrum.) Did it happen or did you remember it happening
only because you wanted it to happen? The death of God gets rerun so
many times in the postmodern Gothic: MarlowWillard coming to terminate
Kurtz, Roy Batty at the apex of the High Castle crushing Tyrell's eyes
(so THAT'S AntiOedipus!) Or so we are led to believe. In fact, the
violent destruction of the Father is Oedipalism itself, obviously. If
you are not to repeat Oedipus (reversedKronos the son who kills and
consumes his father), you must do as St Paul recommends and 'kill
death'. Kill death, don't do the work of death for it by taking the
place of the dead father. Because the Father, remember, is nothing
other than the traces left after his own dismemberment; the voices in
your head, the revulsion and disgusts garrisoned in your body (What
exactly is it that makes you recoil in horror? [Theweleit].) The
mortification of your body without organs. Nietzsche says that it us
who have killed God (even though we aren't aware of it); but really it
would be better to say that God's death is something done to us. Or:
in order to become speaking animals we must be the mortified children
of a dead God. So now that Daddy's dead, are we free to return to the
mother, return to what seems to precede death, to the maternal body
that was our 'first home and dwelling place' (Freud)? No, because the
Father's No only ever pretended to be a moral Law, when really it was
a Transcendental code line. 'Do not touch your mother' really meant
'You cannon return to the maternal body.' The Father was only ever the
caretaker, because, as every One has always known, this is the most
impossible of impossible journeys and that, dream of it as you might,
you could never return to that place where you, in any case, never
were and this avoiding of identity, this suspension of separation in
the anion is precisely its appeal. But the way is barred, absolutely
(with flaming swords, so we are told in Genesis). Not that this
prevents any amount of blood being spilled in the grotesque attempt to
recover that dwelling place (and also: to deny that this is what you
want). motherland are at least as dangerous as Fatherlands. What
Oedipus wants, really, is neither sex nor the death of his father. The
Oedipus complex is only the fantastic dramaturgy that plays out the
drive for (re)Unification at the level of simpersonality. lais is what
His Majesty the Ego must imagine blocks his way back to the Garden of
Delights (G.O.D.) the entrance to which seems to be the maternal body.
Kurt Cobain wasn't the first nor will he be the last male who blows
his brains out to go in utero. Denial of self, erasure of identity,
autoannihilation: think of all the male violence/ malevolence that
arises from the sick leewards lure of this bucolic Imaginary. He wants
to be what God says he is: One. 'When Dostoyevsky's kirillov commits
suicide, it's to prove that his will is stronger than God's. By
proving thus that the human I possesses supreme power, he believes
that he is emancipating man by putting him in the place of God. ('If I
kill myself I become God' 'God is a necessity and therefore He must
exist.') Something entirely different is at stake in [Maria]
Tsvetaieva's suicide: not to be that is, in the final instance, to be
God, to dissolve being itself, to free it of the Word, of God, of
self. 'I don't want to die. I want not to be.' That is what she says
in her notes. In an analogous situation a man can imagine an all-
powerful though always insignificant mother, to 'legitimize' himself,
to make himself known, to lean on her and be guided by her through the
social labyrinth, though not without his own running ironic
commentary. MeryLaurent for Mallarme, Madame Strauss for 'little
Marcel', Miss Weaver for Joyce, the series of fiancee taken and
rejected by Kafka. .... For a woman, as soon as the father's not
calling the dance and language is being torn apart by rhythm, no
mother can serve as an axis for the sacred or the farce. The girl
tries herself: the result is socalled female homosexuality,
identification with men, or a tight reign on the least pre-oedipal
pleasure. And if no paternal 'legitimation' comes along to dam up the
inexhaustible nonsymbolized impulse, she collapses into psychosis or
suicide.' Kristeva, 'About Chinese Women' (btw: given all that was
said above, isn't it clear now why Kristeva's investment in the pre-
oedipal is the most Oedipal of errors? Because Oedipus is nothing
other than the fantasy that there is a 'preOedipal'. And because, as
Kristeva herself recognizes, 'The symbolic order the order of verbal
communication, the primal order of descent is a temporal order.' And
what is the 'pre' if not a temporal designation?) In any case, what
'artistic' men, those who quite literally turn self-destruction into
an art form, can always have relied upon is the Mother figure who
protects and nurtures them. The assumption being that self-destruction
(and self-destruction is fascism on the microscale, just as fascism is
self-destruction on a macroscale) is justifiable because something
else More Important than joys and sadnesses is at stake. There is no
more dangerous assumption than this. The 'aestheticization of
politics' (Benjamin) or the erasure of politics by aesthetics ('so
what if he is fascist, at least he wrote good poems') are the twin
engines of the Fascist Art Machine, which, alongside its allies in the
RCC and the Family, has done more to legitimate suffering and abuse
than anything else on the planet. The alternative is a construction,
in no sense a recovery, of the body without organs, which in any case
you have never lacked ('any way, you already have one'). It is about
discoveringconstructing your true Gnostic Self, which has nothing to
do with the fake familial personality Alien Parasite Entity that
confuses itself with you (and convinces you that its usurpation is
nothing of the sort). The BwO, by contrast, is radically orphaned, it
has 'no pappamummy' (Artaud), it is wherever you are not. Practically,
this requires, then, not more Mothers, Mother love is biofascism (my
child/ren user alles) still less male Mothers, but an impersonal
Affectionate Collectivity. Nurses are more impersonal than swooning
poets, obligated drug-users or cosmoscommuners. Only agape can
dissolve persons, families and nations. From the Evening Standard,
last week All that and none of the protoMills and Boon passion Evil
mind virus that is Wuthering Heights. Bargain! (I dread to think what
would have been in the men's top 10... Clancy... Star Wars the
novelization.... Tolkien... Chris Ryan... ) 1. 'There are no people.
Nothing at all like that. The human phenomenon is but the sum of
densely coiled layers of illusion, each of which winds itself upon the
supreme insanity that there are persons of any kind, when all there
can be is mindless mirrors laughing and screaming as they parade about
in an endless dream. But when I asked the lunatic what it was that saw
itself within these mirrors as they marched endlessly in stale time
and space, he only rocked and screamed...' Thomas Ligotti, 'I Have a
Special Plan for this World' 2. A person is someone who believes that
she authors her own life through her own choices. That is not the way
most humans have ever lived. Nor is it how many of those with the best
lives have seen themselves. Did the protagonists in the Odyssey or the
BhagavadGita think of themselves as persons? Did the characters in The
Canterbury Tales? Are we to believe that bushed warriors in Edo Japan,
princes and minstrels in medieval Europe, Renaissance courtesans and
Mongol nomads were lacking because their lives failed to square with a
modern ideal of personal autonomy? Being a person is not the essence
of humanity, only  as the words history suggests  one of its masks.
Persons are only humans who have donned the mask that has been handed
down in Europe over the past few generations, and taken it for their
face. John Gray, Straw Dogs: Thoughts on Humans and Other Animals,
5859 3.  If anyone comes to me who does not hate his father and
mother, his wife and his children, his brothers and sisters  yes, even
his own life  he cannon be my disciple (14:26)? Here, of course, we
are not dealing with a simple brutal hatred demanded by a cruel and
jealous God: family relations stand here metaphorically for the entire
sociosymbolic network, for any particular ethnic substance that
determines our place in the global Order of Things. The hatred
enjoined by Christ is not, therefore, a kind of pseudodialectical
opposite to love, but a direct expression of what Paul, in Corinthians
I 13, describes as agape, the key intermediary term between faith and
hope: it is love itself that enjoins us to unplug from the organic
community into which we were born  or, as Paul puts it, for a
Christian, there are neither men nor women, neither Jews nor Greeks
Zizek, The Fragile Absolute  or why is the Christian Legacy Worth
Fighting For, 120121 Seriously, though, isnt the otherwise
inexplicable and beyondhypocritical paean to Blunkett today in the
Daily Mail  a paper which has relentlessly hounded him every day for
the past three weeks  proof of everything I was saying about the
politics of natality? While Dacres evil cronies still  rightly
maintain that Blunketts grossly unethical exploitation of his own
office for his own ends was ultimately unacceptable, they nevertheless
offer a magnanimousinvictory generous tribute to him today, the
mangled corpse of his career still clamped between their bloodied
fangs. Why? Well, there is a kind of swaggering public school
Nietzscheanism in play here. The Mail/Males gentlemanly generosity in
victory is the final humiliation for Blunkett, a conspicuously flouted
sign of their uberdominance. We are so powerful, we have no need for
resentment, no need for crowing. But their claim that deep down
Blunkett is a good man is based on two, related, affinities. Firstly,
there is the obvious congruence between Blunketts harderthanhard,
RighterthanRight, Ill show the bourgeoisie that I can be every bit as
idiotically authoritarian as they want me to be  in fact, Ill be more
rabid than their worst dreams!  with their own Suburban Supremacist
Brit Fascist agenda. Secondly, there is a sinister convergence of
homosocial patriarchalphallic fellow feeling. He loved too much, they
croon. And what is the nature of this love? Isnt it like the love
pathetically expressed by those other outraged patriarchs, Fathers 4
socalled Justice  men whose narcissistic obsession with their own
rights and feelings as patriarchs means that they are indifferent if
not outright hostile to any real, that is to say, social sense of
justice. This love is patriarchy in person, an appropriative,
possessive love, the only love proper to fathers. Cue outraged howls
on the blogosphere and on the trollstalked desolation of Dissensus. I
know someone whos a father and hes nice  Im a father, Im nice . You
must be maternally deprived to have a problem with the family, we all
KNOW that families are lovely and not at all a neuroticizing structure
dedicated to the reproduction of Kapital (via the reproduction of its
workerconsumerslaves). As usual, however, such objections miss the
psycho/ schizoanalytic point, which, as ever, is strictly formalist.
There are no biological fathers. The Father function is semiotic
through and through. True enough, semen emitted by malecoded organisms
fertilizes eggs. But this is in no sense a relation between persons
(which in any case do not exist, except as semiotic functions). Lacans
point about patriarchy is actually stunningly literal. What is to be a
father? Well, it is to be able to give a child your surname (Sir
name). Not that the name belongs to you. You are only its bearer,
nothing more than the agent for the transmission of the patronym. Like
Jack Torrance in The Shining, you have always been the caretaker. The
lieutenant, he who stands in But for what? When Jack starts to wonder
about who is running the Overlook, (Im a man likes to know whos buying
his drinks), he is met by polite demurred (Ulman, Lloyd, Grady, these
men, these Hotel Representatives , are after all unfailingly polite,
such nice men, arent they?) Thats not something that should concern
you, Mr Torrance. At least not at this point. And Jack turns away
because he doesnt want to see behind the False Faces, doesnt want to
see the Faceless, Nameless Horror that gives him a face and gives him
a name. The Management is the big Other, the symbolic structure
itself, undead void, alwaysalready dead God, semiotic vampires without
a subject. The Overlook, or patriarchal transcendence, does not exist
until you instantiate  take care of  it. Like butter Canes Old Ones,
it feeds on your belief, or rather your duplicity. He dupes us. I dupe
us. Were dupes us. You sure you want the Managements approval? You
sure to want to party with them in the Overlook? From Abraham to
Jahweh, the price of admission is always child sacrifice. (Mr Grady
tells Jack in on uncertain terms what his responsibilities are. Mr
Grady says that the Management has grave doubts about Jacks
suitability for the position. Perhaps he isnt the right kind of man.
Mr Grady  Jack: didnt you chop up your family into little pieces?
knows exactly what must be done. Jack must correct Danny.) The
sacrifice always involves mortification, not the actual death of the
organs, but the death of the body without organs. Symbolic death is
both a necessary and sufficient condition for the reproduction of the
Law of the Father. Imprisonment within the face, acquisition of
replicants fake memory (so THATS who I am, Mummydaddyme,
WendyJackDanny). That is why yahweh spares Isaac. Organic death would
mean the curtailing of the undead circuit. Who would there be to pass
on the symbolic order if IsaacOedipus were no longer capable of
reproducing (it)? So, induction into the symbolic order  youre MY
child now  is a death sentence, as signalled by the Lacanian pun  the
Fathers Nom/ Non (name/ no). Mortification must always be presented as
munificience; look, I have spared you = I have given you life (when I
could have killed you). Now, mortify yourself, be the dead agent
through which my alwaysalready dead voice speaks. Daddy has no doubts
about the right thing to do. He must correct us, and he has to keep
outside parties from interfering with what he has to do. Its his
responsibility, and Mummy and Kid have absolutely no conception of
what that involves. Other people, responsible men who know the meaning
of duty, have told him what needs to be done. He has to protect us,
even if that involves beating our brains out.... Even if that
involves.... Well, where exactly would you stop, Jack? There is no
limit to a father's love for his child.... Danny: 'You wouldn't ever
hurt us would you Daddy?' Jack: 'I love you more than anything in the
world....' (If only it wasn't for her). Destroyed by his love for a
woman. (The Sun, today) = Destroyed by a woman = Destroyed by woman.
There can never be too few Fathers. A few more maleborn carers wouldnt
go amiss though. Goya, kronor devouring one of his children 'Kronos,
the most honest of fathers...' (DeleuzeGuatari, Kafka:Towards a Minor
Literature) ha ha ha! Death to the Daleks! Problems and Mysteries....
'From the very beginning, when life takes us under its strict
discipline, a resistance stirs within us against the restlessness and
monotony of the laws of thought and against the demands of
realitytesting. Reason becomes the enemy which withholds from us so
many possibilities of pleasure. We discover how much pleasure it gives
us to withdraw from it temporarily at least, and to surrender to the
allurement of nonsense... More serious hostility to "reason and
Science, the highest strength possessed by man", [Goethe] awaits its
opportunity;... it is faithful to the assertions of occultism so long
as these alleged facts can be taken as breaches of laws and rules; it
lulls criticism to sleep, falsifies perceptions and enforces
confirmations and agreements which cannon be justified.' Freud,
'Dreams and Occultism' (1933) There are a number of other reasons I
find what Simon is saying deeply problematic. One goes back to his
typology of drugs in Energy Flash. In a moment of neologisticonceptual
genius, Simon divides the drugs that have driven the rave engine into
two groups: utopiates, which deliver users into an endless bliss, or
obliviates, which snuff out consciousness altogether. Simon has long
drawn upon Nietzsches distinction between the Appolinian and the
Dionysian. Apollo, god of measure and moderation; Dionysus, demianimal
demon of excess and ecstasy. Now, this clearly is not intended to map
onto the distinction between opiates and obliviates, because both of
these offer different varieties of Dionysian intoxication. (In other
words, Simons hardcore continuum is an intensive scale with total
utopiation and one end and total oblivion [presumably death] at the
other. By contrast, the Appolinian in pop is represented by Kraftwerk
and one of their principal influences, The Beach Boys). Its worth
remembering, by the way, that, contrary to popular misapprehension,
the Nietzsche of The Birth of Tragedy is not of the party of Dionysus.
Rather, what Nietzsche celebrates is the tension between Apollo and
Dionysus; it is this tension that Socrates allegedly terminates by
instituting Western philosophy. At the end of his life, Nietzsche, his
mind going into final meltdown, began to sign himself Dionysus or the
Crucified. The crucified is what the third term that breaks into
Nietzsches pagan dyad. (And the image of God on the cross is something
that haunts and agitates Nietzsche. Its an image of a humiliated god
that would have appalled every religious believer prior to
Christianitys reversal of all values, Nietzsche claims, aghast,
fascinated. Its also an image, as ginsburg pointed out last week, that
haunted Bataille.) As John Gray points out in Straw Dogs, Nietzsche
was a thinker who was unable to leave Christianity behind. Unlike
Schopenhauer, who renounced the world (and with it will and
representation), Nietzsche retained faith with the Christian
injunction to be positive, relentlessly positive, about this wonderful
Garden of Delights into which we are so casually thrown. Erroneously
calling Christianity Platonism for the people (when, as Ray points
out, nonGnostic Christianity is actually Aristotleanism for the
people), Nietzsche set about the reversal of Plato. Now, being
imprisoned in the CaveMatrixSimulation of fleshly carnality is good
(or at least, there is no point saying it is not good, because it is
all there is); there is no ultimate truth, and even if there were, it
is a random act of evaluation that prefers reality to appearance. And
so Nietzsche builds the commonplaces from which postmodernism, or the
cultural logic of late capitalism, will be assembled. It no longer
matters that the CaveMatrixSimulation gives us a partial picture of
reality. Partiality is all there is. perspectives is the basic
condition of all life. Platos yearning for a pure, abstract knowledge
untainted by carlist localism is a sad and oppressive pipe dream. Yes,
CMS is illusory and delusory, and yes we know that, but we must
continue to live in it. More than that, we must celebrate it! A
crucial scene for Nietzsche the Neuromantic. Gibsons Neuromancer.
Neuromancer, the anthropomorphic AI, traps Case in a wrap round
simulation constructed from his own memories. He is with his former
lover Linda Lee, who in networld is dead. The great postmodern
temptation  do you identify with the technoexternalised products of
your own mind (even while recognizing that your own mind is a
techoexternalised projection of/ from the interior walls of
CaveMatrixSimulation)? Vertigo, Solaris, Sphere. What would Nietzsches
advice to Case have been? Why, he would advise exactly as necromancer
does. Stay inside CMS, enjoy it. It will be as if real, and thats all
you can expect. So why does Nietzsche sign himself the Crucified at
the end, then? Is his invocation of the crucified some sick-bed
confession, a lastmomentoflucidity succumbing to the oppressive forces
that he had fought all his life but which in the end were too strong
for him? Is the Crucified nothing but the AntiAntichrist? I prefer to
read it as a failed breakout than as an incipient breakdown. What
Nietzsche lacked of course was AntiOedipalism. His vehement loathing
of Christianity betrayed precisely the resentment that he identified
as the defining psychological feature of his object of hatred. His
disavowed love of Christianity (or the love of Christianity that he
demonstrated through his disavowal of it) was manifested not only in
his translation of its ethical injunctions into (this) worldly terms
(no longer love God, but love life, no longer worship the Creator, but
worship creativity) but also in his inversion of its values (no longer
compassion, softness and love but harshness, hardness, hatred .)
Anything so long as you are excited. And  ask Marilyn Manson
attacking Christianity is very exciting. No question about it. What is
left out of Nietzsches picture is the strength and power of Christian
agape. There seems to be no good translation of agape. Love or charity
are words so overcoded, so hackneyed, so encrusted with hippy yucky
muck and Methodist jumble sale piety as to be near unrecoverable. But
what is crucial in Saint Pauls account of Agape is its clear
differentiation from Eros. Agape is disinterested, a kind of calm,
impassive affection offered, without fear or favour, to all. Eros is
passionately selfinvolved, a narcissism made for two in which your
love for the other depends upon their feeling for you. A hideously
beguiling machine for mutual torture. I will let you hurt me/ because
I know it hurts you, as Howard Devoto, one of the most cold-eyed
observers of this monstrous machine observed. You want to hurt and
crave again . Nietzsche excoriated Paul, as he excoriated philosophers
such as Spinoza, Kant, and the stoics, for preaching indifference.
Indifference is impossible, Nietzsche proclaims, all blood draining
away from his head to feed the engorged theoretical phallus of his
excitation. Paul is a lifedenier, a lifehater, because he denies
perspectivity, the basic condition of all life! We must credit Alain
radio with rescuing St Paul from his reputation as the architect of
corrupt, politically compromised, misogynistic Catholicism.
Astonishingly, on Badious reading, Paul appears as a figure whose
theology is only a hairs breadth away from that of the Gnostics. (By
the way, if you suspect that Badious Paul is some kind of
hyperfictional postmodern construct, read the books attributed to Paul
in the New Testament. They really are every bit as radical as radio
and cizek say they are, yet another proof that the strata
reterritorialize on the most deterritorialized elements.) yahweh and
the worldly are to be rejected in favour of the single ethical
injunction to love others and to love God as you love yourself. To
return then to Simons typology. What is missing from Simons drug
typology  which I, as a proletarian puritan (Infinite Thought), prefer
to read as a typology of affects (what you can do with drugs, you can
do by other means  Burroughs)  is precisely the nonDionysian,
antiNietzschean, affect: agape. Yes, ecstasy is famously a lived up
drug, but  Ive never taken it, someone will have to tell me  isnt its
high a kind of oceanic flowing postitivity? In other words, such love
is still within the province of Eros, whereas, much like Spinozas
third kind of knowledge, agape is intellectual love. And if my number
of posts on sonic culture has declined, this certainly does not
reflect any lessening of the importance of sonic in my life. On the
contrary, I always know that I am recovering from being sick when
sound starts to affect me. Its the only drug I have ever needed, very
precise, very reliable. But its effect on me is precisely not
Dionysian intoxication. At its best, it can make me more receptive to,
more capable of expressing, agape. Agape is a sober affect, whereas
everything Nietzsche tries to force upon us is an intoxicant. Agape
precisely entails a harshness more demanding than anything Nietzsches
onansitic fantasies about warrior men ever come close to. The
Crucified must mortify themselves in order to kill the death of
carnality, the organic intensive death that your members feed upon and
crave. It is a love that entails not the dissolution of the self that
Romantics everywhere, from Nietzsche himself to Theweleits Freikorps
soldiers, have destroyed others and themselves in pursuit of, but the
patient dismantling of the self. This is very far from being an
academic project for me. At work, I am confronted with students
engaged in every form of selfdestruction, from frittering away their
time on footing hedonism, to literal selflaceration and suicide
attempts. The task of finding a way of interrupting the circuit of
abuse begetting abuse, of destruction begetting self-destruction
couldnt be more urgent. Cold Rationalism is that circuit breaker, the
escape route from the dreary prison-house of the human. For to be
carnally minded is death; but to be spiritually minded is life and
peace. (Romans 8:6) Simon responds to my superstition posts: I suppose
ultimately I dont really get what hes talking about when he uses the
word rationality, now thats supposed to include emotion and the body?
It doesn't include them: but the point is to subordinate passive (i.e.
selfdestructive) emotions to reason (= identification of the causes of
actions) in order to increase the capacity to act. The body that is
involved is obe not the organism. But of course you aren't going to
see what CR means if you insist on imposing the very Romantic
dichotomies it is designed to crash. :) But judging by the general
tenor of his argumentsantimammalian, squeamish about emotionthe key
word, the one he's got most invested in, is cold. I'm not squeamish
about emotion. I'm just committed to extricating self-destructive and
destructive passions (in myself first of all obv). The CR programme is
also an erotic of affect it is about emotional engineering, not about
the removal of all affect. Isnt thought, however abstractified and
supersublimated, always an emotion, though? In what sense? Certainly
the other way round is true: emotions are always thoughts (that's
psychoanalysis) Thats why the notion of artificial intelligence is a
nonstarter; what could motivate such an intelligence to be bothered
with thinking? Thought without emotion is a sail without wind. You
have to have a body, monkeymatic flaws and all, to have the energy and
will to think. Why wouldn't AI have a body? Why would drives (what
Spinoza calls conatus) be limited to biotic organisms? Even the
impulse to achieve a cold precision of thought is itself an emotional
impulse, semantically rooted. There's two ways you can take this; one
goes back into Nietzschean perspectives (i.e. the arguments he makes
against Spinoza, Kant and the stoics i.e. all the indifferentists in
the first section of Beyond Good and Evil); the other is into a kind
of Spinozist neurophilosophy in which you say, yes, the impulse to
achieve precision of thought is emotion, but an active emotion, not a
passive one.... Equivocations? The basic idea is pretty clear, I
think. Sorry, yes, I meant equivocation in the rhetorical sense, i.e.
things that are different being treated as if they are the same thing.
Music, as far as I can tell, belongs to a whole category one could
designate with words like nonsense and unsane. Of course music is
pyschotic. But then so are all Cold Rationalists. Theres no point to
it, and thats, sort of, the point of it. Lots of good things in (my)
life actually fit those categories, and my response is to affirm that
glorious nonutility (I suppose that's the dreaded vitalism and
Romanticism one hears about? I think these must be the bits in D&G I
really like!) But here again we're back to equating rationalism with
utilitarian instrumentalism. It's perfectly Cold Rationalist to do
anything to increase your affects. It's not as if people just put on
music for no reason; they don't just get up and put on any record in
an lavatory way regardless of the effect it has them. That would be
'irrational'. They presumably put on records because they have
anticipate particular types of stim. Where Simon and I differ is in
the idea that there is some ineffable Factor X involved in this
process. I think that, in principle at least, the effect a particular
sound sequence has on a body could be described neurologically and
musicologically. The fact that such description might not arrive is a
sign of human abjection, not that there's something mysterious
involved. Why the investment in mystery? It's religion in the worst
sense: authoritarian mystagoguery. By contrast, cyberpunk has always
been compatible with Spinozist religion because both insist that stim
can be precisely quantified, analysed and replicated. Even especially
God is subject to rational analysis. It also strikes me as perhaps not
entirely unconnected that since Marks been on this cold rationalist
tip, hes barely written anything on music. Perhaps music in its
essence is too much an incitement of stuff thats not in the CR
programme. If this has happened, it's more a question of widening than
narrowing though isn't it? Besides, the Mark Stewart piece and the
Glamasochism piece spring immediately to mind as two big predominantly
musicbased posts. (btw, stand by for big Joy Division punk modernism
to postmodernism post....) In any case, I utterly reject the idea that
there's any inherent connection between music and stuff that's not in
the CR programme. Yes, most music, like most human activity, is
abject, dedicated to the (re)production of sad passions. But, as
Leibniz said, music is just organized counting, not some encounter
with the inexplicable. And sonic culture, as we all know and
celebrate, has been involved in the programming of pacified human
bodies, a process that is increasingly connected up with the
demystification and demusicalization of sound production. Far from CR
being inimical to music, the cruel might say it is a philosophical
vindication for justifying what I was listening to at the age of
14.... :) Carlo Ginzburg, Bataille and the College de Sociologie, over
at Hyperstition. 1. Contaminate space with the monkey superstition
that there are such things as 'persons'. 2. Reject rationality and
promote the propagation of opinions virus (= Nietzschean perspectives
= embodied/embedded subjectivism = capitalist ideology). 3. Ensure the
continued disengagement of reason by personalizing all
discourse.'You're only saying that because you are....[insert sex/
ethnic/ sexuality/ abuse/ marital status here as applicable].' 4.
Promote the use of certain common fallacies of reasoning, in
particular: Irrelevant appeal to tradition/ authority 'We've always
done that here...' or to popularity 'Some people might like it...' The
Ad homines fallacy attacking the argued instead of the argument (this
especially popular amongst lawyerpoliticians and their defenders). The
straw man fallacy invent a deliberately weakened version of your
opponent's position, demolish it, then claim to have refuted their
argument. The Spinoza Agents (the Cold Rationalist equivalent of
Gibson's Turing Cops, who, unlike the Turing Police, are dedicated not
to the curbing of AI but to its acceleration) report that a new and
dangerously virulent form of artificial stupidity is spreading
unchecked throughout kspace. This is a nasty combination of the ad
homines and straw man irrationalism mind viruses, provisionally
codenamed 'straw ad hominem'. This oedipalizing idiocy proceeds thus:
given that this argument challenges commonsense and what is
consensually accepted, the person who presented it must be [insert
allegedly derogatory remark about mental health/ marital status/
upbringing here], therefore anything they say is to be dismissed. No
need to refute their arguments substantively, natch. The SA's warn:
'this is unusually moronic even given the low standards we expect of
you jumped-up monkeys. Watch it.' Happy Families LOL. But I must point
out that, as ever, my argument against reproduction is structural, not
personal. Infinite Thought rightly makes the distinction between
misanthropy at a species level which we share and misanthropy at the
level of individual people, which we don't. As anyone who has seen me
cooing over them will know, I like children. It seems to me, however,
that all too often it is parents grim faced, drained, irritable who
don't like their children. The message their joyless dutifulness sends
to children couldn't be clearer: you are a burden, you are sucking the
life out of me, but 'in my heart' I love you. And you must redeem me,
make my life worthwhile (because I can't do it myself). It's an old
trick. Just ask Jahweh. Obviously obviously obviously this is not all
parents. But I've seen enough examples to know that such a syndrome is
far from anomalous. Schopenhauer: 'If the act of procreation were
neither the outcome of a desire nor accompanied by feelings of
pleasure, but a matter to be decided on the basis of purely rational
considerations, is it likely that the human race would still exist?
Would each of us not feel so much pity for the coming generation as to
prefer to spare it the burden of existence, or at least not to take it
upon himself to impose that burden upon it in cold blood? For this
world is Hell, and men are on the one hand the tormented souls and on
the other the devils in it.' The Specials: 'Ain't he cute? No he
ain't/ just another burden on the welfare state/ ... haven't you heard
of the starving millions/ haven't you heard of contraception?' The
prospect of yet more exploitative taxes to support reproducer
indulgence means that a questioning of the geopolitical privileging of
fatality is long overdue. Reproduction in the west is a lifestyle
choice. It is certainly does not put reproducers into a special
category of the morally superior for whose 'sacrifices' the rest of us
should be grateful. On the contrary, in fact. Ethically speaking,
reproducing is immoral and irresponsible. Looked at coldly and
rationally i.e. the only way to look at it the human population is
something that needs to be dramatically reduced. 'In 1600 the human
population was about half a billion,' John Gray points out in Straw
Dogs. 'In the 1990s it increased by the same amount. People who are
now over forty have lived through a doubling of the world's
population.' What Gray, following Lovelock, calls 'human plague'
exerts pressure on the world's scarce natural resources, camping up
tension and conflict. It's only through the utterly discredited logic
of modernization that increasing population at this rate makes sense.
Modernization whether in its State socialist or capitalist mode
assumed that all human needs could be met by increasing productive
capacity. But as Green theorists have established, this is based on a
fallacy. The productive capacity of human beings depends upon natural
resources, and these are finite. No matter what market demand there is
for oil, it cannon be spirited out of nothing. While it's true that
the oilfixated supersport termism stupidity of current Amerikkkan
economic thinking is due to hit the buffers imminently so that a
change in global energy consumption will have to occur, simply
changing energy sources will only deflect the problem of
overpopulation, not alleviate it. Human plague will have to be reduced
and the planet has its means (disease, ecocatastrophe) even if homo
sapiens desperately scavenging for resources don't themselves
substantially reduce their own numbers through warfare. The economic
argument for encouraging people to have children is that there is an
ageing population. If we do not shift the balance, then the economy
will collapse under the weight of demand from those who need support
but are no longer economically productive. But the obvious solution to
this is not more children (who, at best, will be economically
productive after sixteen years) but increased immigration. In Britain,
it is well known that there is a skill shortage now. Encouraging
workers from abroad with suitable skills to immigrants into the UK
would thus have a double benefit. Not only would the problem of the
ageing population be addressed, the UK would also increase revenue
from taxation (since such workers, unlike children, would contribute
to the public purse instead of being a drain upon it). Again and
again, statistics bear out the obvious truth that immigrants work
harder than indigenous populations. Of course, there is no prospect of
anything like this happening under the current soft fascist blaikie
regime. It's no accident that the sentimental indulging of people's
alleged 'right' to have children goes alongside a hostility towards
immigration. As the propaganda of two of its most obvious exemplars
eminently demonstrate, fascist institutions are always rabid in their
obsession with increased birthrate. The RCC's hostility to birth
control and obscene vitalis lust for more children (no matter how poor
or miserable their lives will be) is wellknown. Similarly, Mussolini's
'battle for natality' is typical of the modernizing fascist impulse.
'Mussolini believed that his Italy had a smaller population than it
should have. How could it possibly be a power to reckon with, without
a substantial population and a substantial army? Women were encouraged
to have children and the more children brought better tax privileges
an idea Hitler was to build on. Large families got better tax benefits
but bachelors were hit by high taxation. Families were given a target
of 5 children. Mothers who produced more were warmly received by the
Fascist government. In 1933, Mussolini met 93 mothers at the Palazzo
Venezia who had produced over 1300 children an average of 13 each!'
Reactionary political programmes always insist on the value of life as
such. But this socialization of life of course goes alongside a
degradation of people's actual conditions of life. Don't complain, be
grateful that you're alive, sing in gratitude to the heavens for
allowing you to come into this Garden of Delights. Seemingly
paradoxically, those political systems which actually want to improve
conditions for people tend to underrate the value of the sheer fact of
life. This is partly because having children is a more or less
explicit ratification of the essential goodness of the world. But to
change things or to want to change things entails recognizing that
there is something deeply evil about the world and the worldly. That
is why many of the Gnostics thought that copulation itself was evil,
since it recapitulate the original act of the deranged drunken demure
who deluded himself into believing that he had created the world.
(Besides, those with children are especially prone to reactionary
thinking and behaviour: 'I would, but I've got to think of the kids.'
But as Richard Pryor asks in Schrader's Blue Collar, 'What makes your
family more important than everyone else's family?') Indulging your
atavistic selfish gene impulse to replicate is neither rational nor
moral. The ethical choice is to adopt or foster children. There are
many abandoned children already in this world who need that care.
Meanwhile, if others want to reproduce, that is their choice (just as
smoking should be), but the State should not be in the business of
encouraging it. A response to Infinite Thought's notbeforetime
notbeforetime attack on stoners. What is supposed to be good about
dope? The problem with it is not just the resultant psychosis but the
ACTUAL STATE it puts people into in the first place chronically
demotitvated, lethargic, filled with the kind of idiot porcine self-
satisfaction that is the dialectical obverse of feeling paranoid.
'Better to be Socrates dissatisfied than a pig satisfied....': not for
stoners, whose only commitment is to the pleasure principle, to the
shortest route to total relaxation. Thought, thought requires effort
man, stop oppressing me, let me sit here and babble senselessly, coz
that's creative, right, don't mess with my mojo, but buy me some
munchies when you go to the shop, yeh? What could be better proof of
Lacan's claim that the nirvana principle the drive towards the total
extirpation of all tension is not the death drive proper but merely
the highest expression of the pleasure principle? Stoner stupefaction
seeks only to remove tension, to become a zombified consumer,
shambling to the fridge or the late-night garage to satisfy the
constant craving of the insatiable Tungsten Carbide stomach of Kapital
opened up in your organism by the dope. The meat, and all it wants....
Thought, meanwhile, begins beyond the pleasure principle. As holbeck
says in relation to Lovecraft, only those who are dissatisfied with
life want to read and think. What from the perspective of those slaved
to the pleasure principle is the introduction of a discordant and
dysfunctional element ('hey, Infinite Thought, why you going to the
library? Why don't you long along here with us? Come and play with us,
Nina, FOREVER....') is from the pop of antinaturalist communist
constructivism the positive libidinal motor of an evercomplicating
process of intelligenceproduction. I know someone, probably Gleebot,
will immediately leap on what I'm about to say and produce some
counter-examples which will allegedly disprove it, but most stones are
males, aren't they? More than that, and here's why any empirical
refutation won't wash, smoking makes you male. Selfsatisfied,
concerned only with yourself, unable to care about others even if you
wanted to. One of the many myths about stones is that they are not
aggressive. It's true that, in themselves, they don't FEEL agressive.
Their blessed out idiot state of hyperrelaxed slackness precisely
wipes away any feeling that would interrupt their communion with their
own organism. But when this pianistic selfinvolvement is threatened,
well, then we see how irascible, irritable and bad tempered stones can
be. stones demand the right to their own (passive) aggression, but
detest any show of aggression from others, precisely because any
antagonism particularly political antagonism, my god antagonism and
rationality, what could be more of a DOWNER? disrupts their 'right' to
take pleasure. Bad vibes, man. I need hardly underline the point that
young people voluntarily subordinating themselves to this pacification
program is not exactly politically positive. It's not only because
they all smoked it themselves when they lolled about on a full grant
or because their kids are all smokers that the government is in favour
of relaxing the legal penalties on the smoking of the supposedly
harmless drug. It's because it is politically expedient. What could be
better for the commissars of Kapital than if half the population
spends all their spare time (i.e. convalescence from reproduction of
Kapital time) smoking dope and the other half spends it on sri
antidepressants? Fukuyama's Brave New World inspired argument against
ssrs was that, in producing a feeling of wellbeing they remove the
psychological motivation for action, for proving yourself. Though
Fukuyama's argument is obviously advanced in the services of
proKapital enterprise, its logic can also be used by communists. You
will not struggle against Kapital you will not struggle against
anything if you are emolliated by narcotics. Of course, the obvious
counterexample that people will reach for is rasta and dub. But the
rasta relationship to dope was very different to that of most white
workers taking on their time off, or students spending all day in what
The Fall, gloriously, called 'a Statesubsidized cannabis haze'. It was
not only that the level of downpression to which the rasta was much
greater than the 'hard week' of the white worker, it was that their
consumption of drugs was part of a disciplined religious and political
ritual. Exactly the opposite, then, of those who turn to dope as a
means of hugging out the world. Existenzialism....The collage I made
as a cover sheet for my third-year undergraduate dissertation on
Kafka, Kierkegaard and Kant. Note the samples from Simon R.... (btw
you can tell I've got a functional scanner now, can't you? One of many
things I have to thank Sphaleotas for....) Poem written for me by
Amira of the Clairaudient collective at Noise Theory Noise in response
to my presentation. It's not every day you get a poem written for you
by a female member of an american communist kollektive. Comparing Sex
and the City with Dido provides a telling insight into the current
pathologies of postmodern culture. Both sat and Dido are predominantly
consumed by women, but whereas women proudly display their Sex and the
City boxsets, they tend to conceal their Dido CDs in much the same way
that men are embarrassed about pornography. Because sat is liberating
and positive for women, whereas Dido is coffee-table bland neurosis
that women should be ashamed of, right? This is the wrong way round.
It is sat that should be the guilty secret, not Dido. The standard
critique of sat is that it saw women descending to the level of men:
voracious, amoral and casual in their sexual appetites. The real
problem with sat is that it was exactly the inverse of this. Despite
their carefullycultivated street smart modern urban ironic appearance,
the women in sat were, in reality, as cliched and conventional as the
heroines of romantic fiction: a certain steely veneer did little to
belie the fact that ultimately they ('even' Samantha) were sentimental
and menobsessed. sat was just Barbara Cartland with fisting. The
alleged daring of the sexual practices acted as a smokescreen for the
pathetic simpering mooning of the four leads, allowing the consumers
of the show to have their indulgent sentimentalist whilst pretending
to be sophisticated and modern. So the show's supposed 'feminism' was
of course anything but. SATC's relentless message was appallingly
mancentred: it left us in no doubt that no woman is complete without a
man. Its relentless phallicism ('Big', for uttunul's sake!) was
nowhere better demonstrated than when Samantha had a lesbian affair.
Did she enjoy the irigaray alterity of a diffuse eroticism beyond the
pleasures of the body with Organ? Of course not. 'It's like TEN dicks'
is how she described the encounter. The only novelty of the show was
to equate heterosexual female equivocation over men with banal
consumer choice. Postmodernism, or the cultural logic of late
capitalism indeed. SATC's Postmodern romantic fiction is pitilessly
consumerized. 'Is HE the ONE?' (what a question for the sex which is
not one to be reduced to posing btw) = 'should I buy THIS pair of
shoes or THAT one... they're both nice....' The overwhelming message
of the show (in no way diluted by the false note of the final episode)
perfectly fitted the antiexistentialism of our times: it is better to
be in the anxiety of choice than to actually choose. sat relentlessly
peddled the postmodern core belief that commitment is a fate, if not
worse than, then at least equivalent to, death. To be committed, polo
assures us, is to have our options closed down, restricted. Hence the
grotesquerie of forty or fifty year-olds who still think and behave
like teenagers. Of course, the reality is precisely the contrary of
this. You can always reverse a commitment, make a different choice.
You can't reverse equivocation. The time is wasted, gone. Dido, by
contrast, speaks for female disquiet with heterosexuality, not from
the point of view of the insatiable consumer (no choice would be a
good one, because it would mean that I had left SO MANY other things
on the shelf... AND I would have to leave the shop) but from the point
of view of disappointed total commitment. A song like 'Stoned' stands
comparison with something like Annie Anxiety's 'As I Lay in Your Arms'
('As I lie in your arms, I watch the paint peel from the ceiling... I
was waiting to feel the pain/ it never came') in its anatomy of a
relationship reduced to numbed disappointment. 'When you're stoned,
baby/ and I am drunk/ when we make love/It seems a little desolate
/it's hard sometimes not to look away/and think what's the point.'
Similarly, the justly celebrated 'White Flag' is a song of total
commitment, of a refusal to give up no matter what. If it is clear
that 'White Flag' is about a pyschotically self-destructive passion,
then at least Dido is prepared to own her desire, to be consumed by
it, rather than retaining forever her consumer rights, i.e. the
dubious right to consume, forever. But it is 'Life for Rent' that is
the ultimate riposte to SATC. It is like Carrie Bradshaw after a dose
of Sartre. Here is a thirtysomething wealthy white woman who comes to
the realization that the gap in her life, the lack, the ache she
cannon satisfy, arises precisely from her own indecision. It is not
that she has been disappointed or let down by external forces (also
equated in sat with MEN, of course), it is that she has never wanted
anything enough to really pursue it. Is there a more acute account of
the desolation of the existential void of postmodernity anywhere in
pop than in 'Life for Rent's' first verse? 'I haven't really ever
found a place that I call home/ I never stick around quite long enough
to make it/ I apologize that once again I'm not in love /But it's not
as if I mind/ that your heart ain't exactly breaking...' It is
precisely 'buying' making a definitive choice, and then leaving the
emporium to live the commitment that Dido's postmodern everyman finds
so difficult. Better to rent, to borrow, to wander round the store
forever, than to actually face the anguish attendant upon real
commitment. 'But if my life is for rent and I don't learn to buy/ well
I deserve nothing more than I get...' The mobile phone is the paradigm
case of the indefinite postponement of postmodern consumption. Even
though we are always paying for the phone, we never really own it,
because there is always the prospect of the upgrade, the improvement.
'Life for Rent' understands that this possibility of paying without
owing we pay AS IF we own, but we never do, we are always prey to the
'constant craving' of the consumer itch to get something 'better' is
the existential reality of the lives of those condemned to wander in a
somnambulent haze through the always restocking aisles of Kapital's
overlie shopping malls. But 'Life for Rent' is the moment of Sartrean
crisis and realization that Carrie Bradshaw, endlessly at the counter,
endlessly prevaricating about choices she will never fully make in the
future and choices she has already failed to fully make in the past,
could never come to. I'm not joking. This is what I came out as in the
book quiz. You're I, Robot!by Isaac AsimovWhile you have established a
code of conduct for many generations tofollow, your demeanour is
rather cold and calculating. Brought up to serve humans, youhave
promised never to harm them, to follow orders, and to protect
yourself. Living upto this code has proved challenging and sometimes
even drives you mad. If you were type of paper, you would be pulp.Take
the Book quiet the Blue Pyramid. You're I, Robot!by Isaac AsimovWhile
you have established a code of conduct for many generations tofollow,
your demeanour is rather cold and calculating. Brought up to serve
humans, youhave promised never to harm them, to follow orders, and to
protect yourself. Living upto this code has proved challenging and
sometimes even drives you mad. If you were type of paper, you would be
pulp.Take the Book quiet the Blue Pyramid. Everyone should check out
what She whose superego injunction 'Enjoy!' must be obeyed has to say
about the nt conference.... (btw, I think she should be called, not
blueboy or gleebok, but GLEEBOT... because glee is what Siobhan
radiates, a palpable sense of effervescence and exuberance as flaming
bright and as un-english as her vandalise hair...) Yes... ear worms...
I begged Steve to tell me how I could Skinnerian treatment to get that
bloody Joss Stone song out of my head... Incidentally, funny that the
songs which are most liable to induce stuck tune syndrome are those
which reflexively comment on that very process, e.g. 'Can't Get you
Out of My Head' and 'Messing with Mah Mahnd....' I've lost my mobile
phone (yet again).... Apologies if you've tried to contact me by that
method in the last day.... I'll try and sort out another one at the
weekend... Also: have abandoned my nt email so if anyone has sent me
anything to that address could you please resent to the hot-air
(kpunk99[AT]hotmail.com) There are few sources of greater jouissance
than going clothes shopping with a woman. So it was that I spent the
afternoon in Camden with the one that Steve Hyperdub insists on
referring to as 'Gluebot', an all but helpless bystander bearing
witness to a blizzard of consumption. Now the official view of Camden
is that it is the most embarrassing and naff of London locations: a
tacky tourist trap testament to the commodification of the socalled
Alternative. Yet some of my most intense memories of London centre on
Camden: Coming down on a star-struck visit to the Capital from the
midlands to see Nick Cave at the Electric Ballroom as a back-combed
sixteen year old suburban hick, and spending the night wandering
around central London because it was impossible to get a train home...
Maggie Roberts' former house in Agar Grove.... One of the his of the
cyberpunk culture that enjoyed a sickly but doggedly persistent unlike
in the intensive space between Camden and Warwick during the nineties.
Nick Land's explosive schizotechnictxts 'Machinic Desire', 'Meat, or
how to Kill Oedipus in Cyberspace', 'Cybergothic', 'No Future'
(without these, people, it goes without saying, there would have been
no kpunk) fed into and hatched out of conversations that happened in
this oddest of houses.... Collectives came together and fell out here
(Maggie's own Orphan Drift and also Ccru, which, when it was exiled in
Leamington, used it as a kind of occasional base in a London that
loomed opaque and impenetrable.... Even then, the house seemed
semimythic. Maggie was every bit and in every good way the
simaristocratic quasicatatonic burnout and POW from the future Simon
described when he interviewed OD in 98, and the Agar Grove place was
the perfect Brit cyberpunk habitat for such a female replicants
halfdeserted, demiderelict, overgrown like the abandoned villas in
Ballard's The Drowned World... there was a room lined with early
eighties coins endgames (including to my delight, my pubescent fave,
Scramble) ... and a downstairs living space, if you can call it that,
barely heated by flickering calor gas... at night, when you'd sleep
there, it unseen rodents would twitch and sniff ike something out of
the Freudian unconscious... and then the snakes arrived in the
house.... The Abstract Culture launch for digital superstition in
Compendium bookshop ... all gone now... set up by the tireless
Sphaleotas, Abcult's one-man promotion and distribution team (a
thankless role for which he has never got anything like enough
credit)... Me too depressivesick and automedicated on alcohol to do
anything but function on android default... Slipping towards the
lowest circle of psychiatric hell in what was in retrospect a collapse
synchronized with the disintegration of the bubble economy and the
non-event of y2K... Sometimes you need to let yerself die in order to
allow something else to emerge through you... (Well, Mark, (1) I plead
guilty to the hair dye (2) Mark Stewart is certainly tres sexy (3) but
indie indie? By the meeting void of uttunul, surely As the Veneer
couldn't be classed as 'indie'? A highly successful day at nt 2
yesterday. Ray and Andy should be congratulated for making it happen.
Anyhow, here's my presentation: NOISE AS ANTI CAPITAL: AS THE VENEER
OF DEMOCRACY STARTS TO FADE (1985) FORGET ORWELL Orwell is wrong about
everything, but especially 1984. Far from being the year of
zombiedrone enforced consensus, GB 1984 was a class war zone in which
multinational Kapitals paramilitarypolice crushed the remnants of
organic workers live on videodrome. Such staged antagonism is a
necessary phase in the pacification program that will culminate in
apparently triumphant Kapitals End of History. The reassuring nahum of
the noise free polis at the end of time. Tonys smile. Blair is a much
more effective class warrior than it was possible for Thatcher and
Macgregor to be. Their efficacy was limited by Then Kapitals need for
them to be seen fighting the class war. No need for Tony to fight. To
not fight is to have won. Its all administration now. Systemic
antagonism is just a bad memory. Turn up the TV. Bunker down in your
burrow. Retune the guitars. Return to harmony. Welcome to Liberty
City. The busier you are, the less you see. SOUND FX Mark Stewarts As
the Veneer of Democracy Starts to Fade was the politicallibidinal
intensive soundtrack to battle for the hearts and minds fought between
Kapital and its enemies GB circa 8485. Seven years since Stewart began
his anticareer as teenNietzsche Artaud Debord communist
shamanicfirebrand hystericscreecher in the Pop Group. Stewarts journey
since the dissolution of the Bristol punk collective takes him through
Adrian Sherwood mega mashed hyperdub and into an encounter with US hip
hop. He immediately appreciates that hip hop is not a street music but
nonmusique abstrakt: a site of pure sonic potential, in which inhuman
constructivist sound cartoons can be produced without reference to
musical protocols of any kind. Its all sound FX, a way of manipulating
noise. Hypermodernism. The sonic equivalent of the BurroughsGysin
cutup. A contact of Sherwoods leads to the most improbable of
meetings. UK finsinger and soundderanger Stewart plugs into the
superslick behind-the-scenes nec punk machine responsible for the
grooves on the pioneering hip hop is released by Tommy Boy and
Sugarhill. Component parts: Keith Leblanc. Beat machine producer of
Malcolm X: No Sell Out. He can program drum machines to make them
sound like packs of dogs. Doug Wimbish. superfast hypertechnicized
Hendrix of bass. Skip McDonald. Synthesizer manipulator and
reaperrider of Psychedelicfunk ax storms. Sherwood and Stewart take
their already inhuman grooves and subject them to further layers of
dissonant antimusical editing, interpolating Burroughs vocal samples
from Nova Express and other deliberately withered media background
noise, machining an anticommunicational libidinal signal that takes
you behind the screens to access the Real news. Apocalypse Now. THE
BATTLE FOR THE HEARTS AND MINDS As the veneer of democracy starts to
fade, some say the internment camps are already built. When the mask
of civility comes off and the visors go on, the contours of the New
World Order become apparent. The destruction of the Miners and with
them the wrought-iron ruins of the postwar consensus was only the most
mediavisible of the pacification strategies Kapital was deploying, and
in many ways the least significant. The important thing was to prepare
the way to Transnational cyberspace Kapital Now, when all dissent is
pathologies if it is not made literally unthinkable. Sterezene,
thorazine and lagactyl administered under the Mental Health Bill
subdue political prisoners reassigned to psychiatric wards. marco
neuroticisation as the reimposition of a simulated Reality Principle
shoring up Kapital against its virtual limit in Planetary
Schizoprenia. You dont have to be mad to work here. Restrict your
demands to the what is possible. Find your way back to your dormitory.
Privatize your misery. Struggling to pay the rent, the main worrys job
security. Now and then, we can afford a little luxury. Quietism.
DISSONANCE/ dispenses If the aim is to disseminate information, why
all this noise? Why the distortion, the deliberately buried voices,
why all the halfhearted insinuations, the audiohallucinatory
fragmentation, the wired screams? Why not communicate clearly? Because
clear communication and all it presupposes is the fantasy the system
projects as its vindication and necessarily alwaysdeferred goal. The
big Other stands for the field of common sense at which one can arrive
after free deliberation; philosophically, its last great version is
Habermass communicative community with its regulative ideal of
agreement. (Zizek) The noise free polis. We are told: Only when the
noise of antagonism recedes will we be able to hear each other. Only
when we take out the background static will human speech be possible.
Police yourself and there will be no need for the use of batons.
intoxicated yourself and we will not sedate you. Stewarts disassembly
of his self through noise is a refusal of the Foucault bishops and
Burroughs control addicts that operate first of all at the level of
the skin and the CNS, enticinginciting you to constitute yourself as
an internally coherent driving ego. Stewart treats his own voice not
as the authentic expression of a subjective interiority, but as a
series of lab animal howls, enraged yelps and impersonal intensities
to be cut up and redistributed across the noisehyperdubscape, mixed
indifferently with Duchampfoundsounds and noises produced by viciously
distorted formerly musical instruments. Identity breakdown through the
amplification of noise as an exploding flight from harmony at all
levels: psychic, social, cosmic. Dissensus. I AINT GONNA BE A SLAVE OF
LOVE Always take OBriens side against Winston Smith and Julia. There
is nothing natural, and human biosocial defaults are always to be
distrusted. If you want to get out, leave all that mammal couple shit
behind. Stewart is one of Burroughs most assiduous readers. It is not
a matter of emulation but of the deployment of abstract engineering
diagrams in different media. Position As the Veneer of Democracy
Starts to Fade as the terminus of the Burroughssaturated UK
Underground delineated by Nuttall in Bomb Culture. Hypnotized plays
like the I Love You section from The Ticket that Exploded, Burroughs
most pitilessly hilarious dissectionanalysis of the biopsychic newlove
control virus as preprogrammed biological film, sentimental mooning
croontunes spliced in with hardcore pornography and replayed like
videodrome in your CNS, ensuringexacerbating constant craving. All the
tunes and sound effects of Love spit from the recorder permitting sex
whine of a sad picture planet: Do you love me? But I exploded in
cosmic laughter Old acquaintances be forgot? O darling just a
photograph? (Ticket that Exploded, 44) Heaven must be missing an angel
Hypnotized Hypnotized Shes got me hypnotized. DO NOT under any
circumstances waste your money on the Destiny's Child album on the
basis of the brilliant single. Far from heralding a great comeback, it
is a false dawn. The rest of the lp is full of the kind of syrupy,
mooning over six foot men soulful gloop that you always skipped on
Survivor and The Writing's on the Wall. lure songs, 'maturity', proper
instruments, this is not what I want from DC. Furthermore, I can't see
anybody else getting much out of this depressingly 'classic
soul'sounding set. I can't tell you how disappointed I am. Back at
long last after US sojourn and no less brilliant... My man Philip on
the Destiny's Child comeback effort... this single improves with every
listen and it was great to begin with... in a very strong year for
singles, it's in the top three I think... And yeh, fabulous dancing,
fabulous clothes, wonderful swaggering from the galz... they look so
much more confident, so much more powerful together than on their
own... And if you want to hear Mark Stewart's 'Passivecation Program',
about which I will be talking on Saturday, the lovely Nick
Gutterbreakz has provided the mp here. The NoiseTheoryNoise program
and other details can be found here. Don't know about you, I'm
especially looking fed to seeing William Bennett of Whitehouse.
Unfortunately, Sinker clashes with me... damn... Any way, if nothing
else, this will be a good opportunity for punk correspondents in
london area to meet up.... 'The only true hell is there in the office,
I no longer fear any other.' Kafka, letter to Felice, 7/4/1913 Like
Infinite Thought NOISE AS ANTICAPITAL: MARK STEWARTS AS THE VENEER OF
DEMOCRACY STARTS TO FADE Mark de'RozarioInstitute of Abstract
Engineering NOISETHEORYNOISE 2, Middlesex University, White Hart Lane,
Saturday with November 2004. As the veneer of democracy starts to
fade, some say the internment camps are already built .. Seen from the
point of view of is Kapitals apparent end of history (Fukuyama), Mark
Stewarts As the Veneer of Democracy Starts to Fade (1985) looked like
a quaint throwback. In an era of cultural political quietism, in which
the most intense sonic material was coded as a cultural, as opposed to
political, production, the fusion of sensesderanging hypermodernism
and politics which Stewart embodied played like a relic of a
superseded phase of avant garde agitprop overreaching. If the LP was
celebrated at all a decade ago, it was as a precursor of the
depoliticised, commodities white angst of the is Industrial genre; a
significant shift, since As the Veneer had already enumerated the
(psychiatric, chemical and mediatized) techniques that Kapital would
use to pathologist dissent, a process exemplified by the
mediapropagation of Stewarts own reputation as paranoid or mad.
Soldiers march through your eyes In the last four years, with the
irruption of the desert of the real (Baudrillard, Zizek) into late
capitalisms simulated interiority (as evidenced through the
nearsynchronous attack on the etc and the collapse of the is bubble
economy), things have begun to look different. However incoherent its
agenda and strategies, the disparate constellation of anti-war and
antiCrUSader groups have followed the even less cogent anti-capitalist
movement in reintroducing systemic antagonism into a global order
presenting itself as postpolitical administration, returning the
images of visored cops and soldiers familiar from Stewarts record
sleeves into the videodrome mediascape. I aint gonna be a slave of
love Either everything is political or nothing is. The management,
incorporation and violent subjugation of dissent (Resistance of the
Cell, As the Veneer of Democracy Starts to Fade) was only one level of
the battle for the hearts and minds Stewarts LP detailed. The
channelling of desire into oedipal coupled (Hypnotized, Slave of Love)
and the narconeuroticizing production of abject subsubjectivities
(Passivecation Program) were equally significant in preparing the way
for the normalization of is innocentcynical (Blairite) kapital . The
concept of Control Data do you control data or does data control you?
Stewart developed on the LP and in rhizomaticallyinterrelated print
publications explicitly rejected the ideological fantasy of a
noisefree global community united through telecommercialized
cyberspace, situating Stewarts sonic experimentalism as a weapon
against (BurroughsDeleuzeFoucault) societies of control. Unlike many
of his contemporaries, who had by 1985 long since begun practising
centrist strategies, Stewart kept faith with postpunks modernist
conviction that no vision of social renewal could be effective unless
it was rendered in a new 'aesthetic' form. As the Veneer thus operates
not as a representation of political processes, still less as a
moralizing cri de coeur, but as a direct intervention in the listeners
nervous system , bypassing the perceptualconscious system in an effort
to activate the political unconscious of bodies localized by biopowers
multilevelled pacification programs. 'There is no dignity' (Lyotard)
Where 80s soulcialism had protested against the inhumanity of Kapital
using completely familiar musical and emotional registers, Stewarts
cut punk hip hop avant dub (produced with the assistance of English
uberdub producer Adrian Sherwood and the Sugarhill/Tommy Boy house
band of Doug Wimbish, Skip McDonald and Keith Leblanc) made no
concession, either thematically or sonically, to any alleged
preexisting human dignity that is supposedly subsequently alienated.
Instead, Stewarts techniques of deliberate derangement, distortion of
clear communication and amplification of noise suggest a provocative
parallel with Lyotards thesis in Libidinal Economy and Duchamps
Transformers that noise is a putative element crucial in producing the
inorganic body of the replicantproletariat, whose arrival heralds the
emergence of a hyperconnected, supersynthetic nuearth. One of the
finest and most wrenching acute posts yet from Infinite Thought. Which
put me in mind of these sections from Zizek's 'Passion In The Era of
Decaffeinated Belief'. 'Jacques Lacan's definition of love is "giving
something one doesn't have" what one often forgets is to add the other
half which completes the sentence: "... to someone who doesn't want
it." This is confirmed by our most elementary experience when somebody
unexpectedly declared passionate love to us  is not the first
reaction, preceding the possible positive reply, that something
obscene, intrusive, is being forced upon us? This is why, ultimately,
passion as such is "politically incorrect": although everything seems
permitted, prohibitions are merely displaced. .... There are two
topics which determine today's liberal tolerant attitude towards
Others: the respect of Otherness, openness towards it, AND the
obsessive fear of harassment  in short, the Other is OK insofar as its
presence is not intrusive, insofar as the Other is not really Other...
This is what is more and more emerging as the central "human right" in
latecapitalist society: the right not to be harassed, i.e., to be kept
at a safe distance from the others. A similar structure is clearly
present in how we relate to capitalist profiteering: it is OK IF it is
counteracted with charitable activities  first you amass billions,
then you return (part of) them to the needy... And the same goes for
war, for the emerging logic of humanitarian or pacifist militarism:
war is OK insofar as it really serves to bring about peace, democracy,
or to create conditions for distributing humanitarian help. And does
the same not hold more and more even for democracy and human rights:
it is OK if human rights are "rethought" to include torture and a
permanent emergency state, if democracy is cleansed of its populist
"excesses"... In our era of oversensitivity for "harassment" by the
Other, every ethical pressure is experienced as a false front of the
violence of power.' If cizek were a little less suspicious of Spinoza,
he would realise that the problem, the obscenity, is not passion which
is mandatory, ubiquitous but that great unmentionable, affection.
Spinoza understood that passions, as the word suggests, were
essentially passive. They involve the take over of someone's body by
external forces; and what is most catastrophic about this is when the
victim of the parasitic force identifies themselves with its invading
presence. Here, as ever, Burroughs' analysis of the male sex drive
converges with Spinoza: the mechanicalrepetitive agitational impulse
towards climax is, literally, 'biologic film', a fantastic
imagestimulus series that plays itself out using the male sexual
apparatus. What is missed by the advocates of such passion is that the
degree of agitation corresponds precisely to the degree of passivity.
Surprisingly perhaps, it is always useful to read Burroughs next to
Irigaray. Like Burroughs, Irigaray absolutely refuses the liberal lie
that 'we are all people underneath' and that there are no differences
between men and women. She is not a biological essentialist, however,
and her texts are best read as erotic engineering: manuals for opening
up the potentials of the body by disabling biodefaults. Irigaray's
claim that heterosexuality is basically homosexual in that involves
the exchange of women, images of women, women as signs, womenformen,
never womenfolk themselves allows us to see that Burroughs' Garden of
Delights orgasm addicted merry-go-round of passion and tristesse is by
no means limited to male homosexual sex. Just because female bodies
are involved does not mean that women enter necessarily enter into the
economy (or economy as Irigaray sometimes puts it). The woman lying
under a man in a state of passion may or may not achieve jouissance;
if she does, it is surely a happy accident. Passion is precisely the
(p)laying out of your own fantastic economy in front of the other. How
is she supposed to respond? And when it is clear, even to the man,
that the woman does not correspond to any off-the-peg fantastic
category, she must be posed as illegible enigma, prompting the old
question, posed by a whole parade of drunken men to Infinite Thought
(do they learn this from a manual? Did I miss the male development
classes where this was taught?): 'just what is it that you want...WHAT
DO YOU WANT?!' Which is at least a testament to the alterity of the
other's desire, to its irreducibility. (As I said to Infinite the
other day, I'm not a heterosexual because I like women...) Unlike
passion, which uses the other only as an audiencereceptacle, affection
is, scandalously and obscenely, an attempt to affect the other. In
terms of the liberal humanist pictish cizek rightly decries, this is
what is absolutely verboten, shockingly intimate. 'You're violating my
personal space...' This is why whores won't kiss or hold their
clients: submission to specularphallic passion is easy to detach
yourself from, whereas affection 'blurs personal boundaries'. And, as
both the Pop Group and adolf mcgrory recognise, we are all prostitutes
today: we are all required to guard and cherish (the psychojuridical
fiction of) our self, since it is our principle commodity. 'Sell
yourself.' irigaray famously opposes the specular to the tactile. The
tactile relation is the one that can never be reproduced in an
imagistic specular economy. It is when the other touches back, about
surfaces pressing against each other, about two bodies becoming a
personalised autoaffecting machine. Years of being confronted by
tedious sound art 'installations' question: has ANYTHING called an
'installation' ever been worthwhile? and of 'sonic art' (pastyfaced
needs with laptops sampling and looping the sound of broken glass or
'generating sound by non-conventional means' i.e. hitting railings
with sticks) has left me more than a little sceptical about sound art.
In principle of course, there's no reason sonic art couldn't work. On
the contrary in fact. But as we know now, the meaning of 'art' within
the Saatchicorrupted English bourgeois culture is 'anything that's
boring, produces no affects and has no vision whatsoever', so to
append the description 'art' to an object or experience is in effect
to say, 'abandon all hope of interest all ye who enter here'. Or, more
accurately: bring your own libido. The artist cannon be expected to
stimulate you. It is your job to clothe the emperor. (Get crane to
deliver his rant on art which claims to 'negotiate ideas of...'; it's
absolutely otm.) So, somewhat unwittingly I found myself in Bruce
Nauman's new sound space at Tate Modern last week with Ray (Gnostic
Dark Prince of Cold Rationalism, organizer of the Noise Theory Noise
conferences at Middlesex). I say sound space advisedly, not just
because, as I indicated above, I loathe the term 'installation' but
because, for once, here was an art experience that was all to do with
space. Unlike the slovenly improv tedium of the sonic art I have
previously encountered, which fogs the space with a damp haze of
sludgy sonic signal, Nauman's hyperprecise sound orchestration not
only used the space, it was the space. There is no 'art object' in
Nauman's Raw Materials: nothing to be mastered, nothing that could be
reviewed. There is only an affective space whose properties change
dependent upon the population that moves through it. The sound we, the
audience, make operates as the sonic equivalent of a found object: the
unpredictable and anomalous signal that interacts with twenty-two
recorded voices to produce an living sonic collage. Nauman's
schizophony is composed not only of the twenty-two voices (which can
be heard very clearly only when you stand exactly opposite the
speakers from which they emerge) but of other sounds that are in every
sense unplaceable, most notable amongst which was a low moan (is it
mechanical or natural? an aircraft drone? the wind?) It presents you
with a good reflexivity as opposed to the boring polo bad reflexivity
with which we are all now so overfamiliar. Instead of the metadistance
from a devoidofaffect 'work', Nauman's sonicollage gave you a
praticontemplation of immanence. As a participanthearer you find
yourself unable to gain any position of transcendence over the
soundspace, and only partly because you yourself are a part of it.
This is an encounter with acoustic space as described by McLuhan: 360
degrees round, schizophrenically diffuse, predatorridden and haunted.
If Nauman's show drew out some of the specific semiotic and affective
features of sound, the excellent Eyes, Lies and Illusion exhibition
just down the South Bank at the Hayward does something similar for the
visual. As Baudrillard has long complained, it is the hatred for
illusion, the impulse to strip away the veils of (re)presentation and
confront the unadorned Real, that defines our contemporary
'transaesthetics of banality'. What radio calls the 'passion for the
real' can be seen in everything produced by the EminLucasHirst
sensationalborocratic abstract machine, which, with a quaint naivete
that is almost admirable, makes a show of disdaining the artificial.
Paradoxically, this only heightens the sense of representationalist
pathos surrounding such 'work'. The op art, anamorphs and optical
illusions on show at the Hayward do exactly the opposite: draw
attention to the representational machines that have produced them.
Once again, there is a good reflexivity, a vertiginous sense of
radical immanence much like you encounter at a certain point in most
of Philip K Dick's, Burroughs' and Ligotti's most powerful stories. As
you contemplate an intricately constructed illusion, you suddenly
realise that the world which you are contemplating it from and the ego
which is doing the contemplation are themselves illusions in what
seems like an infinite series of illusions. Gnostic revelation. Really
under the cosh at work, so not had much time to update... Big posts
soon, promise.... In the meantime, Destiny's Child what a triumphant
return. Beyonce, forget that solo career and we will Aliens vs
Predator one of the worst films ever made. The love scene between the
Predators 'stern but fair' and the boil in a bag tough ass black
female lead was the moment in which the whole franchise was finally,
fatally sublimated Well, it's all happening at Dissensus.... If you
haven't been there, get there as soon as you can... And great to see
one of the punk massive making his debut post here... Thanks Karl..
Now, what's happened to that Carter macbeth and his long-promised
Prisoner post, eh? More from me later on this evening (if my internet
connections is up at home; I'm posting this from work, because it was
inexplicably down this a.m. not sure if it was MS Plague or nt
incompetence, or some hideous combination of the two)... big post on
eyes, lies and illusions and Nauman...I had always generally
considered retro sci-fi utopias as rather charming, earnest, genuinely
communal ascents of our more childlike hopes for the future (well they
certainly seemed that way compared to the puritanical purges of the
Jehova's Witness 'New System' utopia I had been brought up to believe
in my real childhood), but a visit to the recent 'Sweatshop' debate at
the Serpentine Gallery on 'science fiction, retrofutures and
secondhand utopias' attended by kodak shun and John Timberlake, among
others, yielded a rather darker side of the picture to say the least.
One of the few strands of thought that linked a rather fragmentary
debate was also the coldest and most cynical. Picking up from notions
of utopia as a fear of inability to project a desire and utopia as
paranoid exclusion of everything outside its foundation desire, ie
nazism as utopia, the discussion on retroutopias continued to combine
elements of both these strands to build a pretty damning case. The
starting point of the debate was current exhibiting artist Glenn
Brown, especially his reinterpretations of epic sci-fi airbrush
illustrator Chris Foss's sublime visions of intergalactic cities and
spacestations. Foss's rise to eminence was in some ways not only an
indication of a nostalgic yearning within the traditional popular
science fiction imagination, as a new wave of writers and thinkers
came to the fore, but of much greater anxieties. As the realisation
that the moon landing was a plateau not a starting point was taking
the sheen off NASA's real-world vision of space exploration, and the
popularity of 2001 and Solaris highlighted anxieties entering the
public consiousness, young upcoming illustrator Foss got his first big
break with a series of covers for reissued 1940's and 50 pulp sci-fi
by the likes of EE Doc Smith (writing that was sneered at by the new
wave of writers).This combination of Foss's huge gleaming victorian
steamtrain like spacecraft covers and male white middleclass
technocrat fantasies, yearned back to an imagined future untainted by
contradictions, femenism, black power (which kodak joined out was a
utopia itself) and the agony of the Vietnam war, and was hugely
popular at the time, resulting in huge sales. Perhaps most surprising
is that this retrogressive escapist tendency within sci-fi can be
traced back through the earliest and most seminal works, kodak
singling out the, already outdated at the time of writing, notion of
the smokingjacketed scientist showcasing his discoveries to the mayor
and other assembled local bigwigs in his study from H.G.Wells
'Timemachine' for special attention.At this rate I can imagine a
certain popular tv drama being based on a turn of the century sci-fi
utopia where crime in small towns has been reduced to single incidents
of Rhubarb theft due to a new generation of streamlined motorvehicles
that allow the police to respond to incidents in a 'heartbeat',
yeuch!!! ...very soon.. but other commitments, much more urgent, mean
that I don't have a great deal of time in front of a computer atm....
In the meantime, though, everyone should check a string of tom posts
from the newly released, newly hyperlucid Reza over at Hyperstition.
Brilliant stuff... I am not 'messing with yaw mahnd'. You are messing
with mine by implanting your smug, swaggering supermarket soul into
it. You are not a thirtysomething year old black woman who has had
some experience of life. You are a fifteen yr old spoilt rotten white
kid who really should be upstairs doing her homework. Away with you.
Reza is out of jail in Iran. Praise Uttunul! In other news: my long
overdue inaugural post at dispenses is here... Another Catholic
replies, this time to Infinite Thought's exhortation of the irish
ethnofascist wing of the child abuse blood cult. He signs himself
'Agnostic Humanist'. Let's face it, is there any worse position than
that you might as well call yourself 'Last Man Man without a Chest',
pathologically uncommitted late capitalist consumersucker. In any
case, the Agnostic Humanist is clearly anything but. The weirdness of
lapsed Catholics or cultural Catholics as I prefer to call them is
that they always make this odd rhetorical move: 'I am not a Catholic
any more, but I am now going to argue exactly as if I was one....
Because that is rational and objective, and anyone who attacks
Catholicism must be a deranged bigot.' When of course Catholicism just
is deranged bigotry. Insofar as it is Catholic of course.
Astonishingly, Catholicism does retain some traces of Christianity.
But these are the vestigial, not fully concealed, ethical calls of
Christ, not the superstitious pagan doctrine and certainly not the
history of the Catholic church. Given that the 'agnostic' Catholics
would surely disavow the Spanish Inquisitionwitchburningsthe
conquistadorsthe burning of most of Mayan culture in an afternoon by
Bishop mandate propagation of idiotic images of womenthe expropriation
of wealth from the poorinstitutionalized child abuse in other words,
the entire history of the Catholic church, what is left to give
'dignified respect' to? Only a stubborn tribal mind virus that insists
that is good to belong to a certain ethnic group. Fascism in other
words. So antiCatholicism is no different to antifascism. And let me
repeat, the Nazis only managed a decade, the Catholic church has
managed 2 millennia of Satanic anti-christian dissimulation and
atrocity propagation. One of the interesting thing about Zizek's essay
on the The Passion of the Christ is that it reveals that even the Pope
is not a Catholic any more. Even the Pope feels it is politically
unpropitious to avon any commitment to the RCC's official belief
system. What remains is not enlightened tolerance so much as
postmodern fascism, the Wittgensteinian authoritarian mystagoguery of
incommensurable language games and 'forms of life' whose rational
underpinning or lack of it cannon be interrogated. 'Respect' for these
mumbo jumbled idiot ethnicities amounts to a confederacy of fascism
you be a fascist, we'll be fascists, and let's not bother each other,
OK? But obviously they know not what they do, and we must have
compassion for the carriervictims of this dangerous abuse virus. Me on
The Passion of the Christ over at Hyperstition. I've been superslack
on this, but believe me, I'm in a stress hell here college
disintegrating, family disintegrating, flat disintegrating the new
discussion forum set up by Matt Woebot, with me as coadministrator, is
here. I will get involved soon, honest.. half term coming up.... As
Matt says, dispenses will be moderated, so behave yrselves...
remember, I'm a Stalinist, the High Court Judge said so, so it must be
true.... lol Nina has linked to dis in the comments box below, but in
case anyone missed it... you goddam see this one: 'No sex please,
we're asexual Tim Radford, science editorThursday October 14, 2004The
Guardian Some like it hot, and some like it not. A growing number of
people are prepared to admit they are just not that into sex,
according to today's issue of New Scientist. sexuality is not to be
confused with chastity, impotence, even good old-fashioned reticence.
Monks and nuns take chastity vows, but they choose to repress or
sublimate their desires. Politicians condemn sexual obsession, but
that does not mean they never indulge. The success of the impotence
drug diagram suggests that for many men, they would if they could. The
young American women who launched the "silver ring thing" chose
virginity except within marriage. But they left no doubt they had
something in mind for Mr Right. But a new and increasingly vocal class
are "glad to be A", according to the magazine. For various reasons low
libido, squeamishness, a sense of distance many declare they have no
desire for sex. One suggestion is that none sexuality could be as
frequent as homosexuality. Although there are famous cases of lack of
enthusiasm for sex the Victorian art critic John Ruskin failed to
consummate his marriage once he discovered his bride had pubic hair
those not gagging for it have tended to keep silent. But internet
forums such as even (Asexual Visibility and Education Network) at
.asexuality.org are encouraging the naysayers to speak up for their
lack of passion. It is not that they have no sex drive, some of them
report. They may experience arousal, but they simply do not feel the
urge to have sex. Brian, an asexual navy veteran from Virginia, USA,
told the magazine: "The place where we draw the line is the desire to
interact sexually with other people." High school student Pete said "I
get the feelings ... but my body never made the mental connection to
what I should do about it." Social stress can lower libido and reduce
interest in sex in humans, primates and sheep said Keith Kendrick, of
the abraham Institute in Cambridge. "That can make an individual not
only infertile but totally uninterested in sex." Whatever the
explanation, absence of desire appears to be a reality for thousands.
As the shirts in the even online store say: "Asexuality: it's not just
for amoeba any more." Or, as Avril ravine sings, don't tell me what to
do, don't tell me what to say, I'm better off alone any way.... Thank
Uttunul that I'd just read John Gray's Straw Dogs and Al maeda and
What it Means to be Modern, or else the first episode of Jonathan
Miller's A Brief History of Disbelief might have sent me into one of
my patented kpoplexies. Miller has always struck me as an insufferably
smug Oxbridge jackofalltrades (ah, direct a play before dinner, then a
spot of neurology, I think), reminding me of Scott Fitzgerald's
elegant put down, 'there's none so limited as a well-rounded man'. And
so it proved last night, as Miller interviewed some mark philosopher
(the word 'belief' covers a wide range of things that we take to be
the case, apparently; jeez, you can see why universities pay for these
academic philosophers can't you, where would we be without them?) and
paraded, once again, the professionally bigoted anti-darwinian
speleologist Richard Dawkins (Sadie Plant's missing of whom remains
supersharp: Dawkins happily says that all life is about
genereplication, but equally happily seems to exempt himself and the
punting on the river, cucumber sandwich commonsense Trad Academic
world from the implications of this). By contrast with the rabidly
prosletisyng Dawkins ('burn, believer!') Miller tried to appear
reasonable and wellbalanced, not at all a fanatical atheist. But the
sight of him in some NY wine bar with likening stupid American
smugonaut educated idiots, mocking religious believers like the public
schoolboy he always will be, sniggering behind the back of the
housemaster, was sickening. Miller and his chums seemed to be under
the illusion that the only available version of God is the theistic
deity rejected by Spinoza three centuries ago. Note, please, that all
of the card-carrying disbelieve were white. Which is no surprise,
since as Gray argues, the perception that religious belief is on the
decline and that there will be an inevitable 'progress' to ecumenical
humanism is a conviction confined to the European White Master Class.
And as Gray assiduously demonstrates, it is a conviction that has its
origins in the bizarre and unscientific cult of Positivism, itself a
degraded form of Christianity. As Miller admitted, atheism is
essentially negative defined by what it rejects, not what it upholds.
Why, then, should we become disbelievers? Offering up the tired
conflation of religion with megaviolence is hardly a positive reason
for disbelief, since most of the greatest massacres and genocide of
the twentieth century were undertaken in the name of the ecumenical
humanism that Miller advocates. No: the real recommendation for
atheism must be the lives that the likes of 'cultured Europeans' like
Miller lead. Theatre... Radio 4... marital infidelity.... neurotic
interiority passed off as the human condition....the basic bourgeois
credo that it is impermissible for anything to be greater than
MEEEEEEEEEEEEEE....... No thanks. You know you're facing raw airpower
when you witness something like the scapegoating of Billy Connolly
last week. Connolly had dared to interrupt the latest disgustingly
hypocritical selfrighteous, self-pitying British indulgathon by
introducing some irreverence into the discussion of the bingley affair
(who doesn't know that bingley was a reckless mercenary and had a mail
order bride? O, the Big Other, of course). You don't have to be Col
Kurtz to smell the cynical hypocrisy of the political project that has
guided the faux moralisticsensationalistic coverage of the bingley
death the concealment of the systemic under the personal (i.e.
Blairism, i.e. the cultural logic of current Kapitalism). Why should
we care more about bingley than anyone else who died last week? What
of the pedestrians mowed down by idiot American forces ('hey dude') in
Fallujah? What of those seeking to escape a tyranny that they were
born into (i.e. that they didn't choose to enter in order to make )
who are turned away from Britain as a result of class traitor davos
Blunkett's Daily Mail fascist antiasylum seeker legislation? And what,
apart from racism, justifies the description of 'these people' as
'savages'? How is killing someone yourself, face to face, more
'cowardly' or 'brutal' than dropping bombs on them from a great
height? It's difficult to determine exactly what Connolly said but the
ensuing outrage establishes once and for all that the great taboo of
our time is not sex but death. Sex is boring, indeed, foisted upon us
at all angles and at all times. Rebecca Loos 'pleasuring' a pig on
Channel 5; atrociously unfunny sitcoms like Carrie and Barry and that
unfeasible shit Friday night C4 series whose name escapes me, whose
reliance upon explicit sexual reference show that sex in such comedies
is now as drearily inevitable as the litany of cosy social
embarrassments in such staid seventies shows as Terry and June used to
be. Where once the comedy, such as it was, turned upon burning the
roast beef when the boss was due for a dinner party, now it depends
upon gratuitous smut which is offered up with that sniggering
adolescent duplicity typical of sexualists: i.e. sex is both ordinary,
everyday, nothing special yet at the same time charged with a frisson
of naughty transgression. Sex is obligatory, ubiquitous. It solicit
discourse, endlessly. Death is still unspeakable, something that
demands silence, reverence, respect. We cannon speak ill of the dead
(unless they are an intellectual of course that can be ridiculed and
condemned; about time that too clever by half fuck died donchathink?).
In this connection, it's worth remembering Zizek's remark that one
should only speak ill of the dead, since they have lived their life
and only now can it be judged. Indeed cizek alongside Baudrillard and
Foucault has been tireless in his insistence that the Dead have a
crucial role to play in the current geopolitical regime. 'The sanctity
of Life' the idea that organic life is a special gift that should be
preserved at almost any cost is the vitalis principle that rules our
cities of the undead. The fact of life, not the quality of life is we
are assured in so many subtle and not so subtle ways the crucial
thing. As soon as we are persuaded that we are lucky to be alive, the
thought of complaining about quality of life becomes churlish,
ungrateful. As soon as we think that the only important thing is
staying alive, we will mortify ourselves, become intensively dead,
measure out our lives in health food spoons. Many of Poe's most
powerful stories were about the freezing intensive death that can be
the only result of a fastidious fear of organic death: 'The Premature
Burial', about a catalytic man whose terror of death is so great that
he ends up walling himself up in his own antideath security prison;
and 'The Masque of the Red Death', whose jaded revellers waste their
lives in an empty hedonistic denial of death that is of course
ultimately futile. You can't escape death by protecting the organism.
Deleuze, whose work is always compromised by a disastrous weakness for
vitalism, is absolutely right when he says that only organisms can
die. But the alternative to organic lifedeath is not some ironically
persisting Life ('life doesn't die, only organisms do'); it is the
desolate unlike of the cosmos, the body of uttunul, or the Spinozist
God. The God of classical theism, the personal, transcendent God, is a
vitalis God. The roots of this conception of God lie in the philosophy
of Aristotle. Aristotle famously distinguishes between four different
types of cause: material, formal, efficient and final. Of these, final
cause is the most significant for Aristotle, who based his philosophy
and ethics around the idea that everything in the universe had been
designed to fulfil a specific purpose. This investment in final cause,
or teleology presupposes a well-ordered universe whose ultimate
purposes have already been set or prerecorded, as Burroughs has it.
Aristotle's philosophy was taken up in the Middle Ages by Thomas
Aquinas who provided the theoretical underpinning for modern Roman
Catholic ethics. Aquinas said that God had laid down a final cause, a
purpose, for everything in the world, and that things were good
insofar as they fulfilled that purpose and bad insofar as they failed
to. The notorious Catholic condemnation of homosexuality arises from
the conviction that sex organs have one purpose and one purpose only:
the reproduction of the species. The consequences of holding this
belief actually go much further than a rejection of 'deviant' sexual
activity of course, since it also rules out, for instance, women after
the menopause having sex. Aquinas' view is in every sense Procreative:
it is our duty to stay alive and to reproduce more like ourselves.
Thus Catholicism is a major propagator of what John Gray calls 'human
plague', the destructive and self-destructive spread of 'homorapiens'
who are voraciously consuming the limited resources of their biodrome.
Here, we are confronting the biological of Human Security in person:
sexpleasure as a means, not of escaping death, but of reproducing it.
Out beyond the pleasure principle, outside the reproducer meatcircuit,
are the antiCreationists: the Gnostics, Spinoza, Schopenhauer,
Lovecraft, Lacan, Ligotti, those for whom organic life is a stain upon
Zero, an excresence. Burroughs, too, can be counted among the
antiCreatonists, in his insistence that what is presented to us as the
world is prerecorded by malevolent control agencies in a 'Reality
Studio'. Naturally, you don't get off the pleasuredeath ferris wheel,
the Garden of Earthly Delights, by dying.... There is no worse fate
than dying as an organism... The way out lies in annulling the organs,
in getting out of the organism, in making contact with the pitiless
indifference of the flattened living body of uttunul. As the intense
crushing pressure of the start of term recedes (by all accounts, the
worst ever at the college DON'T EVEN START me on how tone education
education education Blair is systematically turning all educational
institutions in this country into annexes of his Stalinist propaganda
regime*) I'm delighted to be able to catch up with what's happening on
the blogs. Naturally, I wholly approve of the new direction
Gutterbreakz has gone in. As Matt rightly pointed out, the mp blow can
be a lazy and dispiriting format, with sound and text actually
delibidinizing one another. Nick, however, uses mp3's not as a
substitute for discursive consistency but as illustrations of his
clearly identifiable aesthetic. Predictably of course I'm most
enthusiastic about Nick's post on the cover art for the Dr Who Target
paperbacks of the seventies. Like Nick, any encounters with the
prePertwee Who mythos I had as a child took place not in those days
before VCRs onscreen but, virtually, in my head, with the books as
primitive but hypereffective simstim machines. And the mp extract of
Malcolm Clarke's Sea Devils soundtrack is a stunning reminder of how
gone the BBC Radiophonic Workshop were. Nick is right to draw the
parallel with Throbbing Gristle (listening to TG back to back with
Delia Derbyshire recently the same thing occurred to me) but you
really have to hear the atonal electrodelia of Clarke's soundtrack to
believe it. btw The Sea Devils, like their terrestrial counterparts,
the Silurians, were essentially an appropriation of Lovecraft's mythos
(cf The Shadow over innsworth especially) If you watch that adventure
now, you're struck by the way in which the clubbed electronic
swarmsonix dominate, so that the images and dialogue seem like
backgrounds to the soundeliriam rather than the other way around. This
post written while listening to the BBC's excellent CD reconstruction
of the Web of Fear. *Except of course, for all its evils, Stalin's
regime actually DID something, whereas for the antiproductive
commissars of realising blaikie Kapital, reality is a distraction from
the next PR powerpoint presentation. Speaking of Critchley, and as if
to prove Simon's 'second thoughts' right 'think maybe all academics
should make records to flesh out their theories and research findings.
(Actually, on second thoughts, maybe that's not such a bright idea
after all)' did anyone else follow the Anonymous Entity that seems to
be known as Nina's link to Simon Critchley's error recordings? Like
IT, I'm left speechless. Pity Critchley wasn't. Savagely hilarious
stuff from Infinite Thought's nameless correspondent on Derrida's
death and its inevitable (well, everything's alwaysalready happened,
so it's all inevitable innit?) exploitation by academic careerist
drearocrats like Critchley and Bennington. There are many problems
with Derrida's work (none of them identified by the BBC's almost
defiantly ignorant piece natch), but it's clear that noone deserves
'friends' like Critchley and Bennington, or any of the other
professional disseminators of Frenchfried fuzzout academobabble who
have reduced his theory to a Representational Mind Virus lifestyle
option. (The academic machine is now happily turning out Deleuze
wallpaper by the yard of course). It's odd, because I was only
chatting to Sean Crumbling Loaf yesterday on msn about how logging
vindicated Derrida's attack on phonocentrism and the metaphysics of
presence. The default assumption is that it is only in face-to-face
interaction that one encounters the truth of a person. In fact, the
opposite is the case. everyday life is almost solely composed of a
series of ritualized masquerades (cf Goffman). It's a blizzard of
unconscious signalling noise that typically invites mutual
misunderstanding and sends people scurrying back to the dubious
protection of their oedipus burrows. logging however has the capacity
to anticipatively decode subjectivized misunderstandings and preempt
those that might otherwise occur. Hence the on the uh face of it
surprising ease with which bloggs get on when they meet outside
kspace. So many of the hexes, blocks and defensive strategies that
wall us into our protective self-imposed prisons have already been
disabled. That's not because writing is an expression of interiority.
On the contary, writing as Foucault says, allows you to escape your
face, your identity, your past. Everyday discourse traps you in them.
One other note on the Derrida death thing: the BBC's idiotic dismissal
is obviously beyondbelief embarrassing, but it's worth thinking for a
minute about the idea that Derrida propagated 'absurd doctrines'.
Surely the academic discipline propagating the most 'absurd doctrines'
is the one that is also one of the most respected amongst
nonacademics: Economics. What could be more absurd than the still
dominant Rational Agent Theory, the idea that people are 'basically
rational' and make choices that are in their own interests? Amazingly
managed to get online on the new machine despite the best efforts of $
Bill and the are have now downloaded msn messenger am available for
chat on that at kpunk99@hotmail.com... See my write up on Ultravox's
'Artificial Life', Grace Jones' 'Private Life' and Visage's 'Pleasure
Boys Dance Mix' and download the tracks here, at Stylus' new mp blog.
Thanks to the lovely Todd Burns for asking me to do this. It really is
wonderful to be given the opportunity to propagate one's enthusiasms.
"Knowledge of Maya writing did not long survive the Spanish Conquest,
owing to the diligence of church and government officials who rooted
out any manifestations of this visible symbol of "paganism." Diego de
Landa, in a passage that ironically accompanies his invaluable eye
witness description of Maya writing, described his own role in its
suppression: "We found a large number of these books in these
characters and, as they contained nothing in which there was not to be
seen superstition and lies of the devil, we burned them all, which
they [the Mayans] regretted to an amazing degree and which caused them
great affliction." Robert Sharer, The Ancient Maya, p. 513 'Here is
Bishop land burning the sacred books. To give you an idea as to what
is happening, imagine our civilization invaded by louts from outer
space... "Get some bulldozers in here. Clear out all this crap..." The
formulae of all the natural sciences, books, paintings, the lot, swept
into a vast pile and burned. And that's it. No one ever heard of it...
Three codices survived the vandalism of Bishop land and these three
burned around the edges. No way to know if we have here the sonnets of
Shakespeare, the Mona Lisa, or the remnants of a Sears Roebuck
catalogue after the old outhouse burned down in a brush fire. A whole
civilization went up in smoke. ... When the Spaniards arrived, they
found the Mayan aristocrats lolling in hammocks. Well, time to show
them what is what. Five captured workers, bound and stripped, are
castrated on a stump, the bleeding, sobbing, screaming bodies thrown
into a pile... "And now get this through your good nuts. We want to
see a pile of gold that big and we want to see it pronto. The White
God has spoken."' Burroughs The Job, 198 But at least they made
'aesthetically superior' things out of that gold, folks, so don't
sweat it... I have a new computer. And, since it's running microsoft
Windows (ok, ok, but it's better than my aged mac, and very cheap) and
is therefore user hostile, I've not yet been able to get the internet
connection up and running. So if you've mailed me in the past couple
of days on my nt account, I apologize, I won't have been able to read
it. If you can be bothered, resent to kpunk99@hotmail.com and I'll
pick it up at work though with any luck I should be online within the
next couple of days. But since this is dependent on those two
superreliable entities, Dollar Bill Gates and ntl, I'm not going to
hold my breath. 'Death is orgasm is rebirth is death is their
unsanitary Venusian gimmick is the whole birth death cycle of action
you got it?' Ticket that Exploded, 53 Reading Burroughs' The Ticket
that Exploded, you experience the same creepy tingle as when you
encounter the raw intensity of Freud's Beyond the Pleasure Principle,
or any of Lacan's commentaries on it. Impossibly (help, someone call
the transcendental cops), you are confronting something that you
should not (be able to) see... Somehow, against all the odds, elements
from within Human OS have got outside the system to expose the real
nature of its hideous construction... In The Ticket that Exploded, all
that is solid from within the Human OS DeathPleasuredome dissolves
back into the body melting shamanoneiric delia of pure intensity
(oneiric but is not we who dream, it is we who are dreamt but by WHOM?
or WHAT? come and look, if you really want to know the answer...) it
seems almost trivializing to describe The Ticket that Exploded as
something that you read. It's more a question of atonement to an
ongoing intensive trauma, to the cosmic hellindustrilalization
process. The prose is incantatory and it is a mistake to read it as if
it is a novel. Hear it as if it is being read out aloud. Use the
hyphens () as precise instructions on how to pause But only plug
yerself into the bookmachine if you really want to know what you are
few do 'The Venusian invasion was known as 'Operation Other Half,'
that is, a parasitic invasion of the sexual area taking advantage of
an already existing fucked up stituation. ('What a mess'...) The human
organism is literally consisting of two halves from the beginning word
and all human sex is this unsanitary arrangement whereby two entities
attempt to occupy the same three-dimensional coordinate points giving
rise to the sordid latrine brawls which have characterized a planet
based on 'the Word', that is, on separate flesh engaged in endless
sexual conflict The Venusian boy/girl under Jonny Yen took over the
Other Half, imposing a sexual blockade on the planet (It will readily
be understandable that a program of systematic frustration was
necessary in order to sell this crock of sewage as Immortality, the
Garden of Delights, and love (5152) 'Well these are the whole facts of
the case and i guess i ought to know There were at least two parasites
one sexual the other cerebral working together the way that parasite
will that is the cerebral parasite kept you from rising up to the
sexual parasite ....' (144) You see gentlemen you have been engineered
solely as a carrier for Venusian pleasure death sex plague. Everything
else about you is an accidental sideeffect... No male sex drive, then,
(I was speaking too loosely when I said that before).. no... only
males driven to pass on the evil sexdeath virus that pulsate and
wriggles within us, seeking release, which is to say more of itself,
forever...OK, most difficult post yet, but here goes.... I was
sexually abused by a doctor when I was in my early twenties. It was
just after I had been released from psychiatric hospital after my
first nervous breakdown and put it into his care for clinical
depression. To spare my own embarrassment, I won't go into the details
of it, but suffice it to say, I was one of many young males that this
doctor ab/used. Actually, his treatment of me was really quite trivial
compared to what he did to others. His manipulations and his pretexts
for filming the naked bodies of some of his victims in some cases
involved telling young men that they were infertile when there was
nothing wrong with them. This same doctor had treated me for anxiety
when I was 14 and had made it clear to me that my problems were due to
one reason alone: sex. If I had got a girlfriend, all my difficulties
would dissolve. :) In any case, he is now in jail. The case received a
great deal of press attention. Last I heard, his tragic wife,
convinced of his innocence, was campaigning to clear his name. Now,
don't be too ready to comfort yourselves, sexualists. Ah, that's why
he is so antisex... because he was abused...' Not at all. On the
contrary, this episode helped me to see that it is not my aversion to
sex that is 'sick', it is sex itself that is pathological. Sex IS
abuse. And if you think this is just one of my wacky theoretical
reversals, at least pause to reflect on the fact that I have support
from the most unexpected, most 'rational' source on this: Kant. Kant
believed that sex inevitably entailed treating the other person as a
means to an end. Since this was contrary to one of his formulations of
moral duty the idea that we should treat people as an end in
themselves, never as means to an end he was in a quandary when it came
to sex, which he rightly thought of as inherently pathological. The
only way that he could get round this he couldn't very well declare
leave it at that, saying sex to be intrinsically wrong was to evoke
the marriage contract. Sex is only valid within marriage, Kant argued,
because within marriage we have contracted out our organs for the use
of the spouse, just as they have done the same for us, and so the
categorical imperative can be suspended. Kant's view is much closer to
the truth IMHO than those who maintain that sex is 'healthy'. I
actually don't regard the abuse episode as that serious, except that
it gave me an insight into the inherently abusive nature of both sex
and authority. No doubt middle class people will be nonplussed by my
compliance with the doctor's wishes. Why did you go along with what he
said? Well, they simply do not understand the degree of working class
trust in and deference to bourgeois authority. It's difficult for us
to believe that something a m/c professional is telling us is not
true. We are naive enough to believe in the probity of their
institutions. Obviously this doctor ultimately did me a favour my
removing such faith from me. It's interesting that one of the original
meaning of the word 'punk' was the male subjected to sodomy in jail.
Iggy Pop was famously raped by bikers (cf 'Dirt' from Funhouse), but
the most coldly pitiless observer of the sex/power abuse virus is
undoubtedly Swans' Mike Gira, who was also raped whilst a young man.
The Swans' releases 'Cop', 'Raping a Slave', 'Greed' and 'Holy Money'
are hyperbole diagrams of an economicsocial humiliation machine: 'Keep
your head on the ground. Push your ass up. Move around. Cry. Open your
mouth. Here is your money. This feels good.' ('A Screw (Holy Money)'
'I give you money. You're superior. I don't exist. You control me.
You're corrupt. You deform me. You own me.' ('Your Property') The
genius of girl was to deny that there was anything extreme about these
scenarios or descriptions. Rather than embittering or
psychopathologizing him, his rape had politicized him, giving him a
terrifying lucid insight into the idiotic evil of the male sex drive.
In the best possible way, I couldn't disagree more with John. To say
that Courtly Love is a version of the master/slave dialectic is
getting it the wrong way round. Given that the Courtly Love machine
emerged in the middle ages, it would be more accurate to say that
Hegel's ms dialectic is a garbled version of it. Historically
speaking, there is no question that the modern notion of romantic love
is a degraded version of Courtly Love. One of the most successful
Courtly Love narratives was the roman de la rose (romance of the
rose), and it is interesting that the word 'romance' originally meant
"story of a hero's adventures," and "verse narrative," and only much
later became solely associated with interiorised couplepassion.
Courtly Love was entirely on the surface, about what Lacan calls
extimacy, not the shared interiority of the modern domestic couple's
'foureyed despotic machine.' Besides, it's odd to invoke Bataille in
opposition to Hegel. Much of Bataille's work was a reworking of
Hegel's darkly pompous mystagoguery. But even that complicity with the
Absolute Enemy is not the most troubling aspect of Bataille's (non)
project. It is precisely his resolutely nonperverse, Catholic notion
of perversion that is the problem. Before I elaborate on that claim, a
brief note on Catholicism. The problem with Catholicism is not
excessive guilt. On the contrary, Catholics should be more guilty...
for the Spanish Inquisition... for Bishop land burning most of Mayan
culture in an afternoon... for systematically exploiting the poorest
and most disenfranchised of the earth over two millennia and for
encouraging them to breed indiscriminately (noone mention Liberation
Theology, please: that's only positive to the degree that it is
Marxist, i.e. antiCatholic)... for what bergman correctly identifies
as its necessary, not accidental relationship to child abuse...
'Bergmann, ..., claimed that "the only rational view of the Roman
Catholic Church" was that it was "a monstrous blasphemy of
transcendent evil: incomparably more corrupt than the Mafia (if indeed
it can be separated from organised crime, which of course it cannot)".
His views, he said, were backed up by "hard sociological data which
even they can't suppress now" concerning the  apparently endemic
problem of institutionalised child abuse amongst Catholic clergy. But
bergman alienated any of the few supporters he had even within
Protestantism by adding that "any religion that is serious about
worshipping the fathered will always be about child abuse; the only
difference between the religion of the pauline and that of the
Abrahamites is that, in the Paulites' case, child torture spills over
into child murder. Despite tying and binding Isaac, the Jewish God
ultimately spares Abraham's son; but the pauline God actually kills
his own son."' So, yes Catholics should be more guilty... not in that
ooo, it is awful (so I'll do it) sense... but coldly guilty... so
guilty in fact that they cease to be Catholics and really repent of
their sins. Bataille is as much a part of the despicable Catholic
psychology of guilt and transgression as any other victims of this
evil cult (you think I'm exaggerating? Tell me an institution that has
done more evil on the planet? Nazism only lasted 10 years or so,
whereas Catholicism is a stillexisting, stillabusing twothousand year
reich). Everyone knows (but some continue to celebrate) that the deep
sickness of Catholicism is that guilt ethically legitimates and
psychologically predisposes its victimabusers towards destruction of
others and selfdestruction. cizek has drawn our attention to Paul's
observation that law produces (the desire for) transgression. The
critique of this move is so well rehearsed that it scarcely seems
worthwhile repeating it here. But suffice it to say that more or less
the whole of Foucault and everything that is innovative about Lacan,
DeleuzeGuattari and Burroughs is specifically designed to reduce that
aren't we naughty transgressopantomimery to the interiorised,
oedipoliced mummery that it is. And, needless to say, Spinoza could
not have been less transgressive, less interested in urinating over
the head of a priest to show how Bad he was. (Look at me, punish me...
gaahhhhhhhhhh!) 'The whole Courtly Love/ Glamasochism thing stinks of
a project with an infinitely deferred goal: "the act itself is
unimportant/ boring". No. Far from it. Only in the climaxorientated,
semendrenched male libidinal economy which Bataille, far from
escaping, produces yet another, academically titillating version of,
is it is possible to defer goals. Nothing is deferred in Courtly Love,
there is an almost unbearable plenitude, so that a breath, a sigh and
a caress are enough to make your whole body shiver with intensely
distributed libidinal charge. Nothing is deferred; what is positively
avoided is anything that will terminate the plateau. Surely it's
uncontroversial to note that the whole of, for instance, the Body
without Organs plateau in ATP is about, not deferral, but a model of
diffuse eroticism which can include sex and even orgasm, but which is
not terminated by them. DeleuzeGuattari rightly take great pains to
say that sex and even male emission phenomena need not end the
plateau. What then is this 'Act' of which the deans (John and
Glueboot) insist on maintaining the primacy? Only a dean sexuality (or
a LLAD) could make a distinction between The Act and eroticism; for
the Masochist, the distinction is meaningless; all gestures, all
gameplay, is as fully erotic as any rutting. And that's because,
though they will deny it, the deans continue to have a model that is
BOTH semantically overcome AND biologisitic. semantically overcome
because it privileges certain behaviours and activities as key
signifiers ('we're having sex now, this is REALLY it, not
foreplay....' and, conversely, 'it's over now, I feel disgusted, let's
do it again....' There is no 'doing it again' for a Masochist (when
did it stop?) Incidentally, when sexuality say 'they had sex five
times last night' what is 'sex'?) biologists because, for all the
justificatory vagueness about what the Act involves, it is pretty
clear that is sex understood in an absolutely straightforward way. And
as I said before, the fact that this moves beyond genital copulation
to orgasm doesn't mean anything. As Nina rightly says, there is
nothing natural, but nevertheless there are biotic defaults, and there
is nothing more biologists than poking bits of yourself into holes or
rubbing bits of yourself until they are sick. Look at dogs they'll
fuck anything, any surface, any animal, any orifice will do. Are they
'perverse'? On the contrary, in their agitational drive to relieve
tension by any means necessary one can see the whole Schopenhauerian
torture chamber that is organic biotic absolutely exposed for what it
is. Insofar as there is nature, insofar as there is biology, it is
SadeanBataillean. I expect John and Siobhan will deny that this is
what they mean by sex, but I suspect, and I could of course be wrong,
that their definition of sex is no more positive than the Trad
Christian definition of the soul, i.e. it will proceed by negation,
'it's not x, it's not y': what is it then? It it is precisely this
drive to relieve tension inevitably producing tristresse and therefore
the need to relieve tension again and therefore etc... that is what
Masochism evades in its construction of a cold rationalist unearth
hypersensuality. Unlike the pleasure principle drive to have done with
tension, Masochism is literally intense, in that it takes its
enjoyment from modulating tension. So I would say that Jane Austen and
Charlotte Bronte are much more erotic than the Bataillefeted Emily
Bronte. Wuthering Heights' orgiastic excess (calm down, jeez, with
this amount of hot blood you could end up like D H Lawrence, a fate
worse than life) and Bad Idealized Bad Unattainable lover feeds
straight into Mills and Boon and Sex and the City (this latter surely
the final argument against sex retaining any subversive potential
whatsoever: what could be more depressingly normalising?) And it's not
only me that finds Bataille's porn novels, like Sade's, disspiritingly
and unreadable tedious. At least Burroughs' Nova Trilogy, with its
obsessive fixation on the Garden of Earthly Delights mechanical sex
repetition, was about the way that sex was a boring treadmill. Note
also that Courtly Love does not involve 'worship of one partner by a
robot'. It is the machine layton that is worshipped, at least in the
first instance. But this is only the first phase of the game; there
are infinite other cybernetic combinations possible. Also, there is no
need for glamasochism to share the disastrous focus on the Couple. In
any case, the masochistic couple is already part of a cybernetic
assemblage (indeed it is this estimate desiringmachine that makes
possible their coupling in the first place). But what could be less
perverse, more militantly normal, than the idea of 'the intimate
couple against the world' that John invokes? As cizek rightly points
out, drawing upon Duras, the only positive model for the couple is not
two people looking into one another's eyes, but both looking outwards
to a Cause to which they have both pledged alliegance. I've been
bitten so many times, but I wear my heart on my sleeve, don't count
the cost so it's with caution, but real heartfelt gladness, that I
say, welcome back. The answer to John effay's typically stimulating
response to my post on Courtly Love will have to wait until tomorrow,
because I have spent all evening completing this post on Eyes Wide
Shut over at Hyperstition. Of course, the post is, I hope, far from
irrelevant to current discussions hereabouts. In answer to those who
think that Glamasochism makes impossible demands of women, I would
recommend Zizek's wonderful 'Courtly Love, or Woman as Thing' from
Metastases of Enjoyment. (Acquired for TWO QUID while out with
Infinite Thought and Alberto yesterday only in Stoke Newington could
you find slave in a charity shop for 2!) It is not that I or other
advocates of Glamasochists have 'made up' the Idealization of Woman.
Such Idealization is presupposed in any erotic love relation which, as
Lacan insists, can never be a relationship between persons, in part
because only in the minds of Teenage oncologists and Guardian Women's
Page readers are there 'real persons'. What erotic love entails is the
two roles of the capricious and cold layton ('a machine which utters
meaningless desires as random') and the servantbondsmanKnight. These
are roles, or rather, machine functions, and as Zizek's example of The
Crying Game, or my examples of Amanda Lear on the cover of Roxy's For
Your Pleasure and Balzac's sarrasine make clear, there is no question
of biological essentialism here: men, women, heterosexual or
homosexual, can play the function of either Lady or Knight. And play
them they must if the game of love is to begin. (A brief note here:
yes, masochism is a perversion but, as cizek rightly observes, it is
the retrospectively understood truth of Middle Ages Courtly Love, from
which all our notions of erotic sometimes misleadingly called
'romantic' love derive). Paradoxically, in any case, the Ideal is the
Real the unattainable limit, the DeleuzeGuattari Body without Organs
(and as Irigaray says in This Sex Which is Not One, women have always
been bodies without Organs). It is this Real which Lacan, following
Freud, calls Das Ding, or the Thing. I love you for what is in you
more than yourself. Again paradoxically, it is precisely when the
Object attains subjectivity that when the game moves over a threshold
into a desubjecifying machine encounter and the "miracle of love"
occurs. 'From a capricious and ironic sovereign Lady, she changes into
the pathetic figure of a delicate, sensitive boy who is desperately in
love. It is at this point that true love emerges, love as a metaphor
in the Lacanian sense: we witness the sublime moment when erogenous
(the loved one) changes into erases (the loving one) by stretching out
her hand and "returning love". This moment designates the "miracle" of
love, the moment of the "answer of the Real"; as such, it perhaps
enables us to grasp what Lacan has in mind when he insists that the
subject itself has the status of an "answer of the Real". That is to
say, up to this reverse, the loved one has the status of the object:
he is loved on account of something that is "in him more than himself"
and that he is unaware of I can never answer the question 'what am I
as an object for the other? What does the other see in me that causes
his love?' We thus confront an assymetry, not only the asymmetry
between subject and object, but in a far more radical sense of a
discord between what the lover sees in the loved one and what the
loved one knows himself to be. Here we find the inescapable deadlock
that defines the position of the loved one: the other sees something
in and me and wants something from me, but I cannon give him what I do
not possess or, as Lacan puts it, there is no relationship between
what the loved one possesses and what the loving one lacks. The only
way for the loved one to escape this deadlock is to reach out his hand
towards the loving one and "return the love" that is, to exchange in a
metaphorical gesture, his status as the loved one for the status of
the loving one. This reversal designates the point of
subjectivization: the object of love changes into a subject the moment
it answers the call of love. And it is only by way of this reversal
that a genuine love emerges: I am truly in love not when I as simply
fascinated by the gala in the other, but when I experience the other,
the object of love, as frail and lost, as lacking "it", and my love
none the less survives the loss. We must be especially attentive here
so that we do not miss the point of this reversal: although we now
have two loving subjects instead of the initial duality of the loving
one and the loved one, the asymmetry persists, since it was the object
itself that, as it were, confessed to its lack by means of its
subjectivization. Something deeply embarrassing and truly scandalous
abides in the reversal by means of which the mysterious, fascinating,
elusive object of love discloses its deadlock, and thus acquires the
status of another subject.' (103104) The contemporary degraded and
coarsely equalized version of erotic love has naturalized and
apologized this miraculous moment as the time in which copulation
happens. But in curly Love proper, sex can be part of the initial
phase of femachinic Master and attentive Servant. It need not be the
semiotic trigger for the threshold shift into the miraculous
encounter. No the trigger is the moment when the Master shows the
Servant 'mercy'. Let's be clear that this is not the end of the game,
the shedding of masks and appearances to uncover the empirical subject
beneath them, or worse, the prelude to reproducerdomesticated
coupledom. Or at least it need not be. It can be the start of an even
more challenging, even more complex and intense game, one that can
last a lifetime at least. No apologies for sharing some more words of
wisdom from slave with y'all: 'What if we are "really alive" only and
if we engage ourselves with an excessive intensity that puts us beyond
"mere life"? What if, when we focus on mere survival, even if it is
qualified as "having a good time", what we ultimately lose is life
itself? What if the Palestinian suicide bomber on the point of blowing
himself (and others) up is, in an emphatic sense, "more alive" than
the American soldier engaged in war in front of a computer screen
hundreds of miles away from the enemy, or a New York yuppie jogging
along the Hudson river in order to keep his boyd in shape? It is a
properly Nietzschean paradox that the greatest loser in [the] apparent
assertion of Life against all transcendent Causes is actual life
itself. What makes life "worth living" is the very excess of life: the
awareness that there is something to live for which we are ready to
risk our life (we may call this excess "freedom", "honour", "dignity",
"autonomy", etc.) ... The "postmetaphysical" survivals stance of the
Last Men ends up in an anaemic spectacle of life dragging on as its
own shadow. It is within this horizon that we should appreciate
today's growing rejection of the death penalty: what we should be able
to discern is the hidden "biopolitics" which sustain this rejection.
Those who assert the "sacredness of life," defending it against the
threat of transcendent powers which parasitized on it, end up in a
"supervized world in which we'll live painlessly, safely and
tediously," a wolf in which, for the sake of its very official goal a
long, pleasurable life all real pleasures are prohibited or strictly
controlled (smoking, drugs, food...) The Puppet and the Dwarf, 9495
You're telling me/that we've been praying/ for a bright and clever
hell think we've been brought to our knees/ but I can't tell...
Typically elegant response from Angus to the Vampire post. Angus is
surely right to identify that 'I'm very spiritual, I'm not into
organized religion' move as 'the very pinnacle of dim-witted bourgeois
individualism'. There's a very serious point here. Capitalism, Marx
reminds us, 'has drowned the most heavenly ecstasies of religious
fervour, of chivalrous enthusiasm, of philistine sentimentalism, in
the icy water of egotistical calculation.' Bourgeois individualism and
miserabilism are coterminous because there is no more terrible burden
to bear than the weight of subjectivity. Subjectivism leaves people in
a state of wretched confusion and desperation that is literally hell,
the only hell there is. The thought that there is nothing more than
conflicting monkey perspectives, all of which are equally 'valid', is
a recipe for the kind of chronic depression that is endemic in the
west now. As Nietzsche feared, noone could could rise to the terrible
challenge of filling the space voided by the dead God, no human being
could become the selflegislating ubermensch. Nietzsche's breakdown was
the breakdown of the west, fastforwarded and compressed into one
central nervous system. But what was the fantasy of the ubermensch if
not a grandstanding aestheticoromantic glorification of bourgeois
individualism? When they say they don't believe in organized religion,
their reservations aren't DeleuzeGuattari critiques of organisation
:), they are just saying that they want to continue to Carrie Bradshaw
about in perpetual shilly-shallying consumer equivocation, treating
life as a buffet lunch to pick at. What they want to preserve is the
very thing that religion can liberate you from: ego. They don't have
the discipline or commitment to subordinate themselves to the
selfdisassembly program. As a contribution to the sex discussion, I
offer this, which after six years or so, stands up rather well, I
think. I'd be very interested in people's views... R.I.P. cizek
brilliant on the Communist Manifesto: '[T]he fundamental lesson of the
"critique of political economy" elaborated by the mature Marx in the
years after The Manifesto is that this reduction of all heavenly
chimeras to the brutal economic reality generates a speciality of its
own. When Marx describes the mad selfenhancing circulation of capital,
whose solipsistic path of selffecundation reaches its apogee in
today's metareflexive speculations on futures, it is far too
simplistic to claim that the spectre of this selfengendering monster
that pursues its path disregarding any human or environmental concern
is an ideological abstraction, and that one should never forget that,
behind this abstraction, there are real people and natural objects on
whose productive capacities and resources the capital's circulation is
based and on which it feeds like a gigantic parasite. The problem is
that this "abstraction" is not only in our (financial speculator's)
misperception of social reality, but that it is "real" in the precise
sense of determining the structure of the very material social
processes: the fate of whole strata of the population and sometimes of
whole countries can be decided by the "solipsistic" speculative dance
of Capital, which pursues its goal of profitability in a blessed
indifference to how its movement will affect social reality. Therein
resides the fundamental systemic violence of capitalism, much more
uncanny than the direct pre-capitalist socioideological violence: this
violence is no longer attributable to concrete individuals and their
"evil" intentions, but is purely "objective", systemic, anonymous.' A
wealth of Lacan and cizek linx. Karl Kraft draws my attention to the
next in the appallinglynamed but fascinating sounding Sweatshop series
at the Serpentine Gallery. Sadly, I'll be @ work, but I hope Karl will
be able to provide a report for the kollektive. SecondHand Fantasy
Tuesday 28 September35pm The Sackler Centre of Arts Education at the
Serpentine GalleryAdmission Free Sweatshops are informal factories for
ideas and debate. This series of discussions invites writers, artists,
curators and theorists to explore current research interests. During
the Glenn Brown exhibition (14 September  7 November), Lisa Le serve
and Edgar schmitt will be joined by invited speakers: Barry Curtis,
Director of Graduate Research and Postgraduate Studies at Middlesex
University; kodak Eshun, self-professed 'concept engineer' known for
his theories on electronic music and its interface with art,
technology and machine culture; Adrian Rifkin, Academic Chair of
Visual Culture at Middlesex University; and artist, John Timberlake.
The panel will explore ideas of science fiction, retrofutures and
secondhand utopias. For further information please contactLouise
Coysh, Project OrganiserTel 020 7298 1533Email
louisec@serpentinegallery.org They say you can rap about anything
except for JesusThat means guns, sex, lies, videotapesBut if I talk
about God my record won't get played kane Anger and humour are like
the left and right arm. They complement each other. Anger empowers the
poor to declare their uncompromising opposition to opression, and
humor prevents them from being consumed by their fury. James H Cone
What could better illustrate the Zizek's thesis that it is
Christianity that is the ultimate taboo in the west now than the
'interview with a (reallife) vampire', Don Henrie, in Thursday's
Metro? Don henri apparently 'sleeps all day, has had this teeth filed
and drinks human blood in closely guarded rituals'. He also features
in Mad Mad House , 'a new reality show where guests have to live with
Henrie, a witch, a naturalist, a voodoo priestess and a "modern
primitive" who likes to hang himself from skin hooks.' You can
positively hear cizek licking his lips when henri answered the
question, 'When did you last suck the blood of a virgin?' thus: 'It
doesn't work like that. We do it in tightly controlled circumstances,
among ourselves as willing participants. We are all tested. When you
look at other disciplines you have things like chi or life force
energy. You have chakras that can be out of line. We believe similarly
and that blooddrinking restores them. The blood is just a tangible and
crude means of transferring energy.' So, rather than being an
unmanageable alterity, vampires is now presented as a moral, even
healthy, lifestyle choice. But the moral underpinning for this cannon
of course derive from the Christian western tradition, which is seen
as at best a passe embarrassment. As cizek argues, it is those
favourites of the master class at leisure 'zen bullshit' and New Aged
out versions of other Eastern traditions that are the only permissible
sources for any moral justification in the 'enlightened' western core
now ('enlightened' is these ecumenical pick 'n' mix polo svelsters'
self-deluding self-description of course; they are especially keen to
differentiate themselves from the intolerance of american
fundamentalist Protestantism). 'I don't believe in religion, but,
like, there's some really did stuff in zen ...' cizek is surely
correct that rather than being in any way disruptive of western
capitalism, zen is the perfect lifestyle accessory for the
consumerworkerzombie. 'It is not only that Western Buddhism, this
popcultural phenomenon preaching inner distance and indifference
towards the frantic pace of market competition, is arguably the most
efficient way for us to fully participate in capitalist dynamics while
retaining the appearance of mental sanity in short, the paradigmatic
attitude of late capitalism. One should add that is no longer possible
to oppose this Western Buddhism to its "authentic" Oriental version;
the case of Japan provides the conclusive evidence. Not only do we
have today, among top Japanese managers, a widespread 'corporate Zen'
phenomenon: for the whole of the last 150 years, Japan's rapid
industrialization and militarization, with its ethical discipline and
sacrifice, have been sustained by the large majority of Zen thinkers
who, today, knows that D. T. Suzuki himself, the high guru of Zen in
the America of the 1960s, supported in his youth, in ac30s Japan, the
spirit of utter discipline and militaristic expansion?' (The Puppet
and the Dwarf: the Perverse Core of Christianity, 26) Now I have many
problems with Zizek's defence of Christianity which is in any case
avowedly, and self-consciously the very definition of deliberate
perversity and I will take these up in a sooncome post on cizek versus
Bergmann. But cizek is surely correct in implying that, far from being
an opening of the west to the call of the Other, the appropriation of
zen et al is the final breath of Orientalism. Or further: the
LevinasianDerridean ethics of Otherness is itself only a supremely
refined version of Orientalism. Instead of joining the dreary
universal academic serenades to the Other and to hybrid identities
(which only confirm the molar identities from which they are mixed) it
is much more productive, much more subversive, to follow the lines of
flight pursued by the renegade deviations 'within' 'our' culture.
Speaking more precisely, such lines are not 'within' our or any
culture at all. On the contrary, they are part of the Outside against
the threat of which all sedentary social formations are organized. It
is important to be rigorously nondialectical about this. The
relationship between the interstellar fugitives and the Death Star
Empire Attractor is not reciprocal; the imperial sedentary machines
require the heartless cephalic jungle as the ulterior zone necessary
for the production and continual reproduction of their identity. But
since jungle seeks only to flee, it experiences Empire as a drag, an
energy drain, whose only positive use might be the provision of
resources which can be cargoculted and pirated. With all this in mind,
it is worth opposing the apparently more radical Malcolm X with the
supposedly conservative James Cone. For all his political acuity, X's
conviction that Christianity was essentially a white man's religion
left intact the alleged ethnic purity of the dominant Christian
tradition. Cone took the opposite stance. He argued that it was
precisely the kind of Christianity practised by the African slaves
after they were violently abducted and culturally annihilated in the
services of building western Kapital (although, naturally, their mass
extermination was only an accident, only a contingency; unlike
Stalinism or Maoism, cuddly Capitalism didn't mean to kill anyone, so
that's alright ask Toneee, he's nice...) that was the essential form
of Christianity. Paradoxically, though, such Christianity was without
essence in the existentialist sense. It was what Kierkegaard called
'Christianityinbecoming', a confrontation with ecstasy and dread, an
absolute existential commitment, with nothing in common with the kind
of smug, pompous Sunday certainty that he decried in the Hegelian
Euroisie. You can hear Cone's black theology of liberation in Baby
Suggs' almost unbearably moving hymns to the black body in Toni
Morrison's Beloved (Jonathan Demme's traumaticexhilarating film of
which must be one of the most underrated films ever produced), in
Missy Elliot, or in kane West, not only in 'Jesus Walks' but in his
whole ecstaticethical aesthetic. Baby Suggs' black nobility bears out
what cizek argues when he says that Nietzsche's attacks on 'slave
morality', far from being aimed at the slaves themselves, were
actually hyperacute analyses of the decadence of the democratic master
class, which arrogate to itself all the privileges of power but refuse
to take any responsibility, accounting for its actions in terms of the
'will of the people', focus groups, etc. DeleuzeGuattari's claim in
AntiOedipus that the bourgeois is the first slave of the ravenous
machine of capital is thus strictly Nietzschean. I can't resist
leaving you with two more choice (carefully performed by our own
inhouse doctors) cuts from the henri interview. 'Blood can give people
really bad stomach ache.' And best of all: 'Metro: Do you like your
steaks rare? Henrie: Yes, I do, but I saute them. The only type of
blood I am interested in is sic) someone who has been tested and
someone from my circle. I am still an omnivores I often just like to
slice up some puccini and saute it with some sea salt and garlic.' He
should invite M Satai, Dylan Trigg and Anthony Hopkins round for a
night's tasteful despair. Remember to bring the rioja though. I'm sure
they'd all be very nice to one another. IMPORTANT NOTE: In the spirit
of Deng Xiaipengesque experimentalism, I am restoring comments for
this post alone. If bourgeois individualists insist on ruining
discussion again, they will literally be wasting everyone's time,
since their comments will be deleted and the drawbridge will be drawn
up again. It really is a simple matter. Just ask yourself this: are
you interested in contributing to the discussion, in discovering
something, in following a desubjectified line, or do you want to just
sound clever or air your own grievances? If the latter, please think
twice and don't post a comment. Do it on your blog. Whore Cull
incisive on Rural Nazis... Unhalfbricking with some sage words on the
comments situation here... and a wonderful contribution to the
domesticity discussion.... 'The notion that your home should be a way
to show off your taste, or your wealth, or your miraculous,
laboratorylike cleanliness is anathema. Those homes are tombs, the
modern equivalent of the burial chambers of the pharaohs where they
lay surrounded by their wealth, their art, their mummified pets. It
jolts me every time I return to the family home and realise that there
are no longer any books there...well, no books in the living spaces of
the house. All the books are concealed in the bedrooms upstairs, a few
on shelves, almost as many in piles on the floors that are incongruous
in a house otherwise devoid of clutter. It's nearly impossible to
relax there the emptiness of the living-room is oppressive, the cream
carpet and the unstable timetables a nerve-racking combination.' Yes,
the emptiness of people's living rooms.... that strange, oppressive
vacancy.... Heads will roll on the floor laughing more like.... :)
(But, seriously, this all arises from Matt's and Mark s is guilty of
this too conflation of namurian Time Sorcery with Fantasy bullshit. As
I said before, precisely the evil of Dean et al is that they have
forever associated sorcery with airbrushed Fantasyscapes. For Lemuria,
think Marvel's pulp cosmology... Jack Kirby... Lovecraft... sonic
fiction....Underground Resistance... Not Rodney Matthews or
bewhiskered wise old patriarchs pointing into the mist, guiding their
young charge on the quest towards the ancient city of Halfomdilllax
wherein it is reputed lies the object of their mysterious quest...)
The sidewalk papers letterpress you down Roxy Sex is boring Infinite
Thought You want to hurt and crave again Magazine Whenever I imagine
total humilitation, it always involves being psychically stripped in
the tabloid Videodrome. For those of us who've lived in the UK all our
lives, the UK tabloidvideodromepapula is a permanent presence in our
heads, the worst thing in the world, the thing in Room 101... your own
most embarrassing and pathetic moments (and we all have them, folks)
replayed on endless loop, for the ephemeral delectation of the
prudently guffawing masses. (There but for the grace of God go
they....) Naturally, such a scene need only be virtual for it to
exercise control; who knows what compromises, cautious restraint,
quietism we unconsciously opt for out of fear of exposure in the
Videodrome's humiliationsensationmachine? The recent beliefbeggaring
monitoring of Wayne Rooney (he's a nineteen year old working class kid
for fuxake, lay off him you fucking resentful pithead alcoholic
Oxbridge scum*) once again demonstrates how integral a component
sexuality is in the English Master Class's sociopsychic control
apparatus. Now, the Lawrentian 'healthy' sexualities would argue that
this is a perversion of sexuality, a 'reduction' of sexuality to 'the
dirty little secret' (cf AntiOedipus). What if, though, sexuality is
ESSENTIALLY a dirty little secret? This is what cizek dares to
suggest, in a passage which in contradistinction to oday's lazy sexual
orthodoxy praises 'the Soviet pedagogy from the early 1920s onward'
which argued 'that sexuality is inherently pathological, it
contaminates cold, balanced logic with a particular pathos sexuality
is associated with bourgeois corruption, and in the Soviet Union of
the 1920s there were numerous psychophysiological "materialist"
researchers trying to demonstrate that sexuality is a pathological
state.'+ This is of to take the side of Orwell's O'Brien against his
Winston Smith and Julia. Orwellian liberal orthodoxy has it that
romanticsexual passion is an eternal, 'natural' impulse, the projected
re-engineering of which signals once and for all the evil humanism of
Marxism. But what if O'Brien is right? What if sexuality, particularly
as expressed in usagainsttheworld coupledom, is irredeemably decadent,
precisely because it is 'natural', precisely because what we are
dealing with here is one of the most stubbornly persistent and
atavistic mammalian impulses? What if it is Smith and Julia, not the
communist drones, who are the real slaves slaves to passion and
O'Brien who is the Spinozist agent of freedom? The humanism of the
Soviet state came from its unequivocal dedication to the task of
'engineering human souls', its ruthless subordination of Nature to
Culture, in the attempt (failed but nonetheless noble) to machine a
proletarian revolutionary class out of resistant biosocialized human
material. Almost noone has taken seriously Foucault's rejection of
sexuality (which has habitually, and grotesquely, been read inside the
dominant sexuality paradigm). A consequence of Foucault's challenging
of the idea that the truth of ourselves/ our selves is to be found in
sexuality would be to view sexuality as basically trivial, no more
defining of 'the reality of what we are' than are our defamatory
habits. (Though with How Clean is Your Arse surely imminent, maybe I
speak too soon... Foucault's point is, though, that there is that,
presumably, any biocultural process could fill the function of
privileged biosignifying behaviour and neurotic attractor that sex
serves for us ... You are what you eat ....) What the sexually
tormented New England Burroughs sought in the Nova Trilogy was not a
release of his sexuality, but a release from sexuality. There's no
better writer on the drearydelirial treadmill of sexual desire,
tristesse and renewed desire than Burroughs. He understood that (male)
sexuality was essentially Sadean: i.e. an autonomic agitational reflex
that ceaselessly and idiotically seeks release. The longueurs in both
Burroughs and Sade arise from the repetitive tedium of sexuality
itself, its conservative slaving to the insatiable k pleasure
principle. It is Sade who proved once and for all that nothing
'sexual' can be perverse, since all sexual behaviour is equally
natural. Look at a dog fucking a chair leg. That is the reality of
natural sexuality. The profound and inherent perversity of
glamasochism, by contrast, lies in its departure from sexuality in the
direction of a wholly artificialized or synthetic eroticism. This is
one of the things that the feminazi antigua slums don't get about
glam. The Glums, like Lads, associate glamour only with male sexual
release, as if the only way of responding to the beautified female
body is to emit seminal fluid, whereas the body of the model can be a
pure surface devoid of any interiority which can be penetrated, either
physically or psychically. Such a body can be explored with a gaze
that is tactilecaressing rather than specularphallic. Here again,
Foucault is an important guide: remember his distinction between a
science of sexuality and an art of erotics. Sadie Plant's
unfortunatelytitled essay 'Coming Across the Future' is especially
valuable in its insistence on Foucault's practical search for what he
called the 'desexualization of pleasure'. The San Francisco bathhouse
presented Foucault with physical encounters that were
Spinozisticmachinic engagements with bodies, in no way organic or
personal, 'You meet men there who are as you are to them: nothing but
a body with which combinations and productions of pleasure are
possible. You cease to be imprisoned in your own face, in your own
past, in your own identity.' While Foucault's antisexual program
inevitably takes malemale encounters as its model, Irigaray's erotic
in This Sex Which is Not One privilege female autoaffection. Much more
than men, always tragically disabled by having the body with organ,
women have the potential for a radically desexualized ecstasy, an
localized erotic in which the whole body is an erogenous zone ('women
have sex organs more or less everywhere'). Tellingly, Foucault could
only find this through drugs. Whereas (male) climax inevitably
localized pleasure, Foucault observed, 'things like yellow pills or
cocaine allow you to explode and diffuse it throughout the body.'
Perhaps it is only through drugs, dancing and music that we men can
get a taste of what it is like not to be dominated by an aggressively
totalizing libidinal apparatus. *(btw, donchathink that the class
agenda of the tabloids was fully exposed when, at the same time as
they were mercilessly whitetrashing Rooney, they were mollycoddling
whining statesubsidized middleclass crabby loser Paula Radcliffe who,
according to yesterday's Standard 'can now reveal' she was suffering
from a 'leg injury' that she for some unstated reason 'had to keep
secret'? why can't fucking athletes ever admit that they lost because
other people were faster than them?) + cf his remarks on 'today's
deadlock on sexuality or art'. '[I]s there anything more dull,
opportunistic, and sterile than to succumb to the superego injunction
of incessantly inventing new artistic transgressions and provocations
(the performance artist masturbating on stage, or masochistically
cutting himself, the sculptor displaying decaying animal corpses or
human excrement), or to the parallel injunction to engage in more and
more "daring" forms of sexuality?' I used to live in a hunting
community in Somerset; they didnt waste their time piddling about with
foxes, but went after deer instead. They cant use the straightforward
disposing of vermin argument about the deer (although they do a damned
sight more damage economically than foxes), because they had wiped
them all out on the Quantock Hills by the end of the nineteenth
century. Consequently they had to reintroduce them in order to bring
hunting back. Amusingly, the argument they use instead is we control
the deer numbers, but if we werent allowed to hunt them, the farmers
(i.e. us) would wipe them all out to protect their crops. Like Mark,
Im not that bothered about the hunters prey when domestic animals are
regularly packed into lorries to be shipped long distances and greeted
at the other end by a walk into a building stinking of death, a bolt
gun, a hook, and some rather sharp knives. What I despise about the
hunting community is their belief that they have a god-given right to
do what they please when out for a days jolly. Consequently, they tear
up the countryside in 4x4s and then park them wherever they fancy,
blocking roads and driveways with gay abandon: Just try asking them to
move, and see what happens. When they were meeting up the road from
her, the only way my friend could pick up her kids from school was to
park her car a quarter of a mile away from her own house in the
morning and walk out to it in the afternoons. This was a bit of a
bummer given her chronic arthritis. Also, these buffoons have the
cheek to complain about dogs savaging sheep, when their packs of
hounds race around the countryside under very little control,
regularly disposing of domestic pets unfortunate enough to cross their
path. Still, you dont want to imagine that banning hunting with dogs
will do the foxes any favours: Last Summer some well-meaning bolts
released seven urban foxes into the woods where I live, so that could
have a happy life in the country. My nextdoor neighbour poisoned the
lot of them. Woebotnik asks me (via email): isn't it only the
bourgeoisie who are opposed to foxhunting? I'm not too worried about
the foxes (although if they are allowed their bloodsports, why aren't
we allowed ours? Can we have dogfighting and bearbaiting back please?)
No. What I detest about the sanctimonious 'rural idiots' (Marx) is
their self-righteous conviction that their 'way of life' is something
we should all be interested in preserving. What is this sacrosanct
'way of life'? Rigid class stratification left over from the middle
ages... the rich man in his castle, the poor man at his gate ....
faithful old Ted genuflections to the Lord of the Manor... and of
course no black faces to be seen anywhere.... The 'countryside' is no
more economically viable than mining communities were. Not that mining
communities, with their brutalised workers masculinism, were any more
worthy of preserving of course (you knew that the British Old Left was
hopelessly reactionary when it became fixated upon ringfencing these
archaism of early industrial capital, instead of agitating for better
jobs and better quality of life for the people who lived in such
communities). (And as I've argued before, 'communities' are in any
case essentially fascistic. John also usefully made the distinction
between communities and collectives, which I think it is crucial to
hold onto.) But if the argument about subsidies and economic viability
holds for miners, why doesn't it hold for rural communities and
farmers? The sheer barefaced hauteur and arrogance of the hyperaryan
country literati coming into the multiracial city and telling us 'we
don't understand the difficulties they face' is utterly breathtaking
when you bear in mind that the urban areas generate most of the wealth
that is squandered on preserving the Medievalist Theme Park they
insist in living in. They don't have to live there, after all. They
could get on their bikes and get a proper job, now couldn't they?
UPDATE: Otis Ferry Don't even start me on that rural fascist scum....
How is it though that the Daily Mail can treat violent protest as 'a
sign of legitimate anger in the country' when it is about protecting
absurd realist rituals or about keeping the price of petrol down, but
not for any other reason? And how can they support the principle of
subsidies for LeagueofGentlemenTubbslike olde worlde yokelocalities,
but reject them for mining communities? Also note: Bryan Ferry's son,
Otis, was amongst the protestors. From coal miner's son to privileged
rural twit in the space of a generation... Incredibly, given the
traumatic but I hope tragicomically resolving events detailed at Radio
Free Narnia, Mark Sinker has managed to come up with typically
provocative and stimulating responses to my post on the politics of
domesticity: 'don't really buy yr v.momusish assault on
interiordecoration obsession on TV: as usual it lacks dialectics, as
usual the key detail is omitted of where the mass unconscious is
allowing itself to explore its resistance to the KKAPITALmachine
woosnam (= nowhere) (without you say where generalised resistance is
possible, the KAPITALMACHINE is totalized = game over = capitulation)
the fact that the "insides" of our lives are now being put up to
Public Gatekeeper Contest is the first sign of the (possible) rebirth
of politics, not the final sign of the retreat from it (ie it
coincides with the ultraballardian obsession w.plastic surgery) (to
jump back a wave, feng shui is at the planation of the gods
=implicitly political; being on TV = it can be discussed in the world
= it is being/can be made explicitly political) (krad conclusion: we
she begin applying punk feng shui to the reconstruction of our FACES)
(haha that's the grace jones line here will yr feminist critics buy
this i wonder?) (actually i therefore think it she be a punk feng shui
of our INTERNAL ORGANS) (the overall collage of TV points us to this
gracefully enough: it's only invisible if you let yerself accept the
genre boundaries which turn TV from a portrait of the totality into a
labyrinth) (an effective prescient dramatisation of this = that dr who
series the WARGAMES i think)' Actually, there is a link between that
post and the post on the Glampunk discontinued that I hadn't thought
about prior to reading Mark's remarks: Hamilton's collage (and the
world the exteriorized interior/ interiorized external world it opens
up). In the C4 documentary on Pop Art and Pop/Art I referred to
earlier, Ballard was especially enthusiastic about the way that
Hamilton's 'Just What Is It That Makes Today's Homes so Different, so
Appealing' zeroed in on what, in a parody of McLuhan, you could call
the 'global living room' of consumer Kapital. Hamilton's collage is
absolutely inside this strange world that has no insides, which
McLuhan's near contemporaneous Mechanical Bride still feels it is
possible to critique. It will be a few years later, in his essay on
Burroughs, before McLuhanO'Blivion, now homeopathically inoculated to
the Videodrome signal his theory is helping to amplify, can describe
the new megamediated world from within it. It is a world, he said, in
which the central nervous system has been externalised; where there is
'no privacy and no private parts'. Baudrillard's theory, especially
round the period of The Ecstasy of Communication, also sets up home in
this same bunkered living space, this mediamonad, this
representational vortex which is both the object and the subject of a
process of total mediatization that will culminate in the end of the
inside. Or (Jameson): the production of a Kapital(ist) space in which
there is only inside. Astonishingly, Hamilton knows all this, back in
skiffleersatz Britain 1956. Look at the recording devices or are they
transmitters? And the man and woman, effaced, replaced, by their own
mediated ideals. No longer the protected inner space, oedipalized
magic circle nothing here but us recordings. Or, better: nothing here
but the feedback. As for dialectics, naturally, I plead guilty to not
being dialectical enough! One of the very many problems with the Cult
Studs uptake of Gramsci was the grotesque appropriation of the concept
of hegemony. Rather than stressing the idea that the working classes
were complicit in their own repression, the Cult Studs lobby seemed to
suggest that hey we can't condemn hegemony too much, coz, like, it has
partly been produced by the working class... But the working class is
not the proletariat. Freedom cannon come through new, better
representations, but by fleeing representation altogether. Conceiving
of your own living space as first and foremost a representation for
the big Other' gaze to inspect that's (intensive) death..... Any way,
Mark, I'm sure that everyone else in the collective will want to send
their best wishes for you and yr mum and we hope to see you for
another walk again soon Naturally, like everybody else, I'm sorry to
see Luke go. I'm not capable of writing a heronbone tribute at the
moment that exceeds this recent effort. But that doesn't matter. The
best tribute a writer can have is the knowledge that he has changed
others' percepts, affects and concepts (the three aspects of a body,
according to Deleuze, glossing Spinoza). If the blows in our network
are anything to go by, it's evident that anyone who has sensitively
engaged with Luke's work over the last twenty months or so has been
changed, and changed for the better, by the contact with his writing.
I hope such a change is evident in what I produce here, because it is
certainly apparent in the way in which I engage with the world in a
renewed way. The thrill of challenging and being challenged by an
attentive audience, the rages, the temporary consensuses, the bursts
of enthusiasm and equally sudden lapses into melancholia that we have
all undergone have meant that logging in our little network has been a
co-housing experience. The speed and intensity of the feedback network
something that could only happen on the net, could only happen NOW has
made possible a supercharged efflorescence of discourse and writerly
personae. But if you are a serious writer, like Luke is, you
occasionally need time to withdraw, to collect and collate and
synthesise. His archives are dense enough, rich enough to keep even
the hungrier heronbone devotee satiated for some considerable time
yet. So long as Luke is still writing, that's all I care about. Time
to get out of the hothouse, as Jerry Cornelius said in 1968. But he'll
be back, and better... I'm so glad that, after thinking long and hard
about it, I decided not to buy tickets for Re~TG; Throbbing Gristle's
'oneoff' reunion weekend at Camber Sands last May. Having cancelled
the original event due to poor ticket sales, they said that they would
curate an All Tomorrows Parties in the coming spring. In the meantime
they attempted to placate the poor saps who had shelled out 130 each
for tickets by inviting them to a 'free' recording session (read
'concert done on the cheap' with no proper lighting, etc.) in London.
I didn't go, but my spies were distinctly underwhelmed by the whole
thing. I think I'll pass on the forthcoming DVD. Anyhow, it now turns
out that the promised weekend event has been moved to December (should
be lovely and warm in the chalets then) and will be curated by the
Chapman Brothers, who were originally just going to be the interior
decorators. What a bummer to be feted as electronic pioneers and the
founders of the industrial genre and discover that, when it comes to
putting on a musical event a couple of jobbing artists, whose idea of
the extreme is scribbling on Goyas, are perceived as bigger
crowdpullers than you are. So, something which was originally billed
as a celebration of industrial music in the twenty-first Century now
has a lineup which looks like this. Goodbye Coil, Merzbow, and
Thighpaulsandra and hello Mercury Rev, Violent Femmes and The Fall
(who appear to have some sort of deal to play every ATP event there
is). People I know with tickets are less than pleased. Still, at least
Thee Majesty seem to have been taken off the bill. There was some
concern that the original Re~TG was going to blight their legacy; this
little treat will flush it right down the toilet. Sean, too, is
superstar atm. Nina's flat An alternative view. Nina's flat is a hive
of activity. An inspiration. Not a living room, still less a domestic
display case, but a space in which impersonal production is always
happening. (Yr average domestic living room is of course a place of
death. Animal pelt everywhere.... and all the useless overpriced
products of dead labour look at what I converted all those hours of
tedious effort into but most of all a dead zone of intensive stasis...
in which bodies are pathologized.... Take your shoes off... Don't sit
there... Would you mind using a plate? and implicitly: Actually I'd
rather prefer it if you were dead... like the furniture...) And no,
Nina's flat is not a place that book dinner should be allowed to do
her worst in.... Books there have long since exceeded all available
shelfspace, and now tower and teeter, leant up against walls, drawers,
fireplaces.... Each one a gateway to the Outside... As are the images
photographs, postcards, posters, reproductions of paintings plastered,
pasted, tacked on every surface.... And here are insect kommunists,
Nina and Alberto in their burrow, at least one always plugged into the
space matrix, tapping away at laptop keyboards continuously placed on
a cramped table, Marxist Rationalist agents in an alternative 24. The
Politics of Domesticity It's no accident that our current period of
localized political quietism corresponds with an obsessive and
unprecedented cultural fixation on Interior decorating, domestic
hygiene etc. One of the most thrilling aspects of something like Fight
Club was its outright and explicit rejection of this regime. To work
was to service the Ikeafantasy apt not the other way round. To get
things happening entailed destroying the domestic space the sheer
strangeness of seeing a filthy house in a Hollywood film A few remarks
I made recently in the comments boxes which I repeat here, slightly
edited, since they might have been missed: 'Potter's Nigel Barton.
What does Nigel's mum say when she hears the televised Nigel talking
about feelings of shame and embarrassment and class? Potter is so
acute 'but the house is clean, it's spotless.' Because cleanliness,
hygiene is as much a marker of the working class as is cathode ray
addiction. Is it really an accident that TV's content is increasingly
merging these two impulses: watch TV/ be more neurotic about your
domestic hygiene. Message behind both: STAY AT HOME. 'It's her
factory...' The fact that there is an inducement to spend more and
more time on domestic labour ... the image of my grandmother 'blacking
the step'... course if you're into relativism, that's fine, hey you
can't criticize, it was no less worthwhile than reading books and
educating yourself. But if you find relativism dangerous, quietist,
then, really, you feel the heartbreaking agony of lives that were
lived below potential.' The question should be how little time can I
spend tending my domestic environment? (Just as the question should be
how little work can I get away with doing in order to subsist?) To
configure domestic spaces as bases of operations, not as display
burrows fiercely protected from any kind of Outside.... 'So they
maintained it as certain that the judgments of the gods far surpass
mans grasp. This alone, of course, would have caused the truth to be
hidden from the human race to eternity, if mathematics, which is
concerned not with ends, but only with the essences and properties of
figures, had not shown men another standard of truth. [ ]That is why
we have such sayings as: So many heads, so many attitudes, everyone
finds his own judgment more than enough, and there are as many
differences of brains as of palates. These proverbs show sufficiently
that men judge things according to the disposition of their brain, and
imagine, rather than understand them. For if men had understood them,
the things would at least convince them all, even if they did not
attract them all, as the example of mathematics shows.' Spinoza,
appendix to Book 1 of the Ethics, (a passage cited approvingly by both
radio and Althusser) Hot on the heels of a government survey which
revealed that prepare yourself for a shock car mechanics overcharge
for services they perform badly, Which? magazine today announced that
most people do not trust estate agents. Well, at least no public money
was wasted on the second stunning revelation. So here's the latest
punk competition. Keep your eyes open... anyone who can spot a more
fatuous and pointless survey than either of the above will receive a
punk noprize. Philip is back, and on fantastic form. My view of Lost
in Translation is very similar to Philip's, I think. Its restraint,
whilst in principle welcome given Hollywood's current sensory overload
default, never really convinced. Coppola seemed like a director
imitating the form of the art flick without being able to deliver the
affect, with the result that, oddly, the film felt both underwhelming
AND portentous. However, Philip is right that Scarlett Johansson has a
luminous presence which is not reducible to her physical beauty. I
approached the film expecting yet another boring rentababe, but
Johansson has an expressive power lacking in the blank,
interchangeable mask that Hollywood habitually selects for. obe I
disagree about sex, though. The less of that sort of thing, the
better. :) Also on top form: Baal. Reached a new level, and the old
level was y'know, pretty damn high. News from Resonance FM: '20th
Sept: mag airs her music blogumentary Where's Your blow At with
contributions from avid loggers K Punk, Simon Reynolds, Woebot, Luka
Heronbone and greta Dayal' For those outside London, Resonance is also
available on the internet. See punk sidebar. I wasn't uh too well at
that time, so don't expect too much from me.... \Gla"mour\, n. [Scot.
glamour, glamer; cf. Icel. gl['a]meggdr one who is troubled with the
glaucoma (?); or Icel. gl[=a]ms?ni weakness of sight, glamour;
gl[=a]mr name of the moon, also of a ghost + s?ni sight akin to E.
see. Perh., however, a corruption of E. gramarye.] 1. A charm
affecting the eye, making objects appear different from what they
really are.2. Witchcraft; magic; a spell. Tennyson.3. A kind of haze
in the air, causing things to appear different from what they really
are.4. Any artificial interest in, or association with, an object,
through which it appears elusively magnified or glorified.Glamour
gift, Glamour might, the gift or power of producing a glamour. The
former is used figuratively, of the gift of fascination peculiar to
women. Masoch: 'Every woman has the instinct and the ability to make
the most of her charms. It is an excellent thing to give oneself
without love or pleasure: by keeping one's selfcontrol, one reaps all
the advantages of the situation.'Wanda in Venus in Furs Glam IS punk;
historically and conceptually. As Simon argued (what must be a year
ago now), it was glam that made the break which allowed punk to
happen. Essentially, glam returned pop to the working class audience
disgusted and turned by the hippies' lazy sleaze. For all its
'androgynous' imagery, hippie was fundamentally a middle class male
phenonomenon. It was about males being allowed to regress to that
state of His Majesty the Ego hedonic infantilism, with women on hand
to service all their needs. (If you don't believe me and I'll level
with you I'm very far from being an objective commentator on hippie
lol, read Atwood's Cold Rationalist classic, Surfacing to see how
'liberating' this was for the women who lived through it). 'Thus even
Zarathustra/ another time loser/ could believe in you....' Seventies
glam played the Nietzsche of Beyond Good and Evil and The Genealogy of
Morals (the Nietzsche who celebrated aristocracy, nobility and
mastery) against the young Dionysian Nietzsche. As Simon argued:
'Glam's tendency (through its shifting of emphasis toward the visual
rather than sonic, spectacle rather than the swarmlogic of noise and
crowds) towards the Classical as opposed to Romantic. Glam as
antiDionysian. The Dionysian being essentially democratic, vulgar,
levelling, abolishing rank; about creating crowds, turbulence, a rude
commotion, a rowdy communion. Glam being about monumentalism, turning
yourself into a statue, a stone idol.' But glam rectified the genetic
fallacy that haunted Nietzsche's thinking. While there's no doubt that
Nietzsche's analysis of the deadening effects of slavemoralising
'egalitarian' levelling in Beyond Good and Evil and The Genealogy of
Morals identified the sick mind virus that had western culture locked
into liberating disintensificationuntodeath, his paeans to slaveowning
aristocratic culture made the mistake of thinking that nobility could
be guaranteed by social background. Nobility is precisely a question
of values; i.e. an ethical stance, that is to say, a way of behaving.
As such, it is available to anyone with the will and desire to acquire
it even, presumably, the bourgeoisie, although their whole
socialization teaches them to resist and loathe it. More than anyone,
Nietzsche understood that, the European bourgeoisie's deep hostility
to 'the notion of superiority' concealed a viciously resentful
psychopathology. If Nietzschean theology says: we must become god,
bourgeois secularism says: Noone may be greater than me not even God.
Everyone knows that there has always been a deep affinity between the
working class and the aristocracy. Fundamentally aspirational, working
class culture is foreign to the levelling impulse of bourgeois culture
and of course this can be politically ambivalent, since if aspiration
is about the pursuit of status and authority, it will confirm and
vindicate the bourgeois world. It is only if the desire to escape
inspires taking a line of flight towards the proletarian collective
body and unearth that it is politically positive. Glam was a return to
the Mod moment(um) that had been curtailed by the hippie hedonic
longer of the late 60s. Like most names for subcultural groups, the
term 'Mod' started off life as an insult, in this case hailing from
the mods' perpetual adversaries, the rockers. As Jeff Nuttall
explains, to the rockers, "'Mod' meant effeminate, stuckup, emulating
the middle classes, aspiring to a competitive sophistication,
snobbish, phony.' (Bomb Culture, 33) But no dilettante/ or filigree
fancy/ beats the plastic you Mods in the sixties were very different
from how they appear in the designer cappuccino froth of 80's
socialist retromythologization. It was the rockers who appealed to the
'authentic' and the 'natural': their rebellion posed as a
Rousseauistic resistance to civilization and mass (produced) culture.
The mods, on the other hand, embraced the hyperartificial: for them,
Nuttall wrote, 'alienation had become something of a deliberate
stance'. Nobility was not innate for mods: rather, it was something to
be attained, through a ruthless naturalization of the body via
decoration and chemical alteration. The mods were in every sense
hooked on speed, and the black American music they gulped down with
their pennies and coffees was consumed in the same spirit and for the
same reasons: as an accelerator, an intensifier, an artificial source
of ecstasy. That is, as a chemical rush into Now, NOT as some timeless
expression of Pride and Dignity. In the desire (my official position
on this now btw is that 'libido' should be used in place of
'desire')pleasure relation, there is a third, occluded term:
sensuality. The hippies' sloppy, ill-fitting clothes, unkempt
appearance and Fuzzedout psychedelic fascist drug talk displayed a
disdain for sensuality characteristic of the western master class (hey
man, it's all about the MIND). When hippies rose from their supine
hedonohaze to assume power (a very short step), they brought their
contempt for sensuality with them. Brute functional utilitarianism
plus aesthetic sloppiness and an imperturbable sense of their own
rights are the hallmarks of the bourgeois sensibility (look at all
those shops in Stoke Newington that say they'll open 'tennish' and you
know exactly what class you're dealing with). The hippie power class
wanted power without having to go to the effort of power dressing.
Naturally, middle class hippie 'feminists' never missed a stride in
their move from alleged egalitarianism to supercilious judgementalism.
What is the disdain for cosmetics and clothes if not an attack on the
working class? The assumption of bourgeois socalled feminists is that
their lives of neurotic bedhopping 'freedom' and Carrie Bradshawing
perpetual adolescent equivocation are better than the working class
pattern of (once) getting married young and (now) having children
young, when it is clear that it is just another trap and not
necessarily a more congenial one. Now the bourgeois philistines have
destroyed glam and returned us to their preferred aesthetic mode:
Romanticism. The contemporary bourgeois Romantic has realised
Romanticism in its most distilled form yet. While the socalled
Romantic poets, musicians and painters of the late eighteenth and
early nineteenth century remained sensualists, whereas our
contemporary Romantics are defined by their view that sensuality is at
best an irrelevance, a distraction from the important business of the
expression of subjectivity. Romanticism is the dressing-up of Teenage
Ontology as an aesthetic cosmology. Teenage Ontology is governed by
the conviction that what really matters is interiority: how you feel
inside, and what your experiences and opinions are. In this sense,
sloppy drunkard layette Tracy min is one of the most Romantic artists
ever. Like Lads the real inheritors of the hippie legacy Emin's
bleary, blurry, beery, leery, dairy antisensualist sensibility is an
advert for the vacuity of her own preferences. What we find in Emin,
Hirst, Whiteread and whoever the idiot was who rebuilt his dad's house
in the Tate is a disdain for the artificial, for art as such, in a
desperately nail bid to (re)present that preWarholian, preDuchampian,
preKantian unadorned Real. Like our whole won'tgetfooledagain promo
culture, what they fear above all is being glamoured. Remember that
glamour means, 'Any artificial interest in, or association with, an
object, through which it appears elusively magnified or glorified.'
But let's make our case by considering some artifacts in some detail.
Exhibit one: the cover of Roxy Music's For Your Pleasure, 1973 The
image is a mistresspiece of ambivalence. Lets approach it through the
eyes of Ian Penman, the most consummate of Roxy observers. (No doubt,
Penman, like me, is endlessly drawn back to Ferry because he took the
same journey from the working class into acceptance into the English
master class). (I make no apologies for citing Penmans text, The
Shattered Glass: Notes on Bryan Ferry at some length, since it is
almost criminal that this bravura display of theoretical elegance
should be mouldering amidst the pages of a longforgotten, chalk dusty
Cult Studs collection*). On the shoreline of For Your Pleasure,
beneath it, on the waterfront strand, stands the second of many new
models: at first sight the second installation of the stock Ferry/
Roxy woman. But to get the full picture we have to fold out the
sleeve, so that we can see Ferry looking on... Penman goes on: Ferry
fills out his function as her chauffeur (landlocked ferryman: a sign
of the times). He waits in amused admiration, surveying the neatness
of the visual pun the model takes her cat (for a) walk: forming a
uniform and uniformly predatory alliance with her black panther, eyes
and mouth directed out at the viewer. Imperiously, she takes the air,
she fields his grace, takes her anima for a prowl and a stretch. Ferry
for sure remains to be seen, smiling manfully behind her back,
artfully protected by the fold in his sleeve. He had arranged his own
look as both within and outside of the main frame. (Within and outside
of the main frame: is that so often where we find ourselves, lost,
stranded, these days ?) Cut. She is a model woman, to be sure; fashion
pushing into abstraction and ratified codification, not there for the
benefit of a product as such or altogether in the name of Art; so she
appears to be what? She appears, on the condition that she appear to
be without attributes. We can attribute nothing to her beyond a
certain imaginary realm of wealth, of wealth as fetish, (Helmut)
Newtons law of physiques. She is sweetest sharp blue nothingness. (For
the coolandblue postDuchamp artist, it seems entirely for beauty to
take the veiled form of scissors. As an aside, since this concerns
another debate: the last things Ferrys songs were at this stage at
least were just good tunes. The first thing they were, were questions:
including questions about what a good tune might mean... And at this
stage Ferry's songs were no more 'love songs' than Magritte's Human
Condition was a representation of a landscape. Like Magritte, Ferry's
sheer coldness and distantiation cannon but draw our attention to the
framing machines that make possible the emotions of which he sings.
Another cut, to a 'realm of a certain narcissistic eroticism he is not
allowed entrance to without putting his heterosexual sensibility in
doubt. All his Songs women (and this will be especially so with
Stranded and subsequent plaints) are voiceless sirens who although
wielding the utmost power over the artists life and sensibility seem
to be without implication (which is to say: internalised out of
existence). Neutered time and place (those perennial spans of Fashion)
coalesce naturally into the figure of the woman. Woman as figure, or
scene war pin up, catwoman, amazon, siren, Riefehstahl Maedchen.
[W]ielding the utmost power over the artists life and sensibility...
The utmost power.... Is he, the artist, Severin, the protagonist of
Masoch's Venus in Furs? Or Sarasine, the hapless herodupe of Balzac's
novel who unwittingly falls in love with a castrato? Amanda Lear with
Dali Because, you see, the ironic punchline was: she is not(all) a
woman. Amanda Lear, the For Your Pleasure model was a transsexual
(though, in yet another complication, she later denied it). A
transsexual, moreover, whose operation might have been paid for by
none other than Salvador Dali. Either way, it is clear that Ferry has
set the tone for a 1970s in which the male is both glamorous and
glamoured, himself a gorgeouslystyled photogenic object, entranced and
seduced by a cosmetic beauty he partly wants to make contact with, but
mostly wants to cold pastoralism into an immutable untouchability.
'Mother of Pearl' which as Penman observed on Pillbox, is the whole of
Lacan in seven minutes, more or less is the closest Ferry comes to
writing a manifesto for his metamelancholia, a metalove song about the
impossibility and undesirability of attaining the Ideal object. Now
this melancholia is not straightforwardly 'tragic' (and even if it
were, it would have little to do with any bourgeois sensibility,
since, as everyone from Shakespeare to George Steiner [The Death of
Tragedy] to Nietzsche to Bataille demonstrate, bourgeois secularism is
inherently inimical to any notion of the tragic). But Ferry's
sensibility is definitely Masochistic. (As opposed to that of the
Sixties, which, as Nuttall, for one, suggests, was Sadean. Compare the
Sixtiessired Lennon's 'Jealous Guy' the Sadist apologizes to Ferry's
reading of the song the masochist sumptuously enjoying his own pain
for a snapshot of a contrast between the two sensibilities.) The
Masochist's perversity consists in the refusal of an exclusive or even
primary focus on geniality or sexuality even in its dean polymorphous
sense, which is perverse only in a very degraded sense. The dean
imagination quickly reaches its limits when confronted with the
limited number of orifices the organism has available for penetration.
But the Masochist and Newton is in this respect, as in so many others,
a Masochist through and through, as is Ballard distributes libido
across the whole scene. The erotic is to be located in all the
components of the machine, whether livewire the soft pressure of flesh
or dead animal pelt the fur coat or technical. Masochism is
cyberotics, precisely because it recognizes no distinction between the
animate and inanimate. After all, when you run your fingers through
your beloved's hair, you are caressing something dead. How had Ferry
got here, become stranded in the early seventies, an artistvoyeur
netdirector Masochist? Richard Hamilton, 'Just What Is It That Makes
Today's Homes so Different, so Appealing' (1956) Ferry famously
studied painting under Richard Hamilton, the socalled godfather of
British Pop Art, at Newcastle University. Can we even begin to
reconstruct the impact that Hamilton's art had on British culture?
Well, you can get some impression of it from the fact that, in a
documentary on Hamilton made by C4 in the early 1990s, Ballard cited
Hamilton's 1956 'Just What Is It That Makes Today's Homes so
Different, so Appealling' as one of the cultural events that made it
possible for him to be a science-fiction writer. It would be better to
say that Hamilton made possible Ballard's exceeding of science
fiction, his discovery of kpunk. '56 was, of course, the year of
Presley's breakthrough records. In its own way, though, Hamilton's
collage was at least as important as Presley in the development of
British Pop. (You see Siobhan, everything starts in Newcastle!) After
the 50s, Pop and Art have always been reversible and reciprocally
implicating in British culture in the way that they are not in
America. Nuttall: 'The students and the mods crossfertilized... Purple
hearts appeared in strange profusion. bell-bottoms blossomed into wild
colours. Shoes were painted with Woolworths lacquer. Both sexes wore
makeup and dyed their hair... The air in the streets was tingling with
a new delirium.' (34) British pop's irreducible artificiality makes it
resistant to the romanticism naturalization that the likes of grail
Marcus and Lester Bangs achieved in respect of American rock. There is
no way of grounding British Art Pop in a landscape. Not a natural
landscape in any case. If Art Pop had a landscape it would be the
aggressively antinaturalistic one Ferry collagen together on 'Virginia
Plain' (named after one of his paintings, which was itself named after
a brand of tobacco). Is this an internal landscape, what the mind's
eye sees? Perhaps. But only if we recognize that as Hamilton's collage
and Ballard's fiction insist in the late twentieth century the 'space'
of the internalpsychological was completely penetrated by what Ballard
calls the media landscape. When the British pop star sings, it is not
'the land' which speaks (and what does Marcus hear in the American
rock he mythologies in Mystery Train if not the American land?) but
the deterritority of Amerikanoriginated Consumer culture. Hence the
braying grotesquerie of Ferry's singing voice on those early Roxy
releases. (And the different grotesquerie of today's sitting pop
idols.) With the firsthand expertise of someone who has had to lose
his voice in order to speak (for that is what you must do if you
educate yourself or are educated out of a working class background ),
Penman brings out very well how integral the problem of accent of
losing a Geordie accent, of not gaining an American accent was to
Ferry's career. As a student, Ferry's life was divided between his
daytime movement through the art milieu and night time fronting of a
soul band doing covers. Two voices, two lives. 'I hadn't found
anything to incorporate all of me.' The early Roxy records are Ferry's
WarholFrankensteinian attempts the joins still showing, thrillingly,
horrifyingly to man-machine a space that would incorporate his day and
his night self. So they are not so much expressions of a coherent
subjectivity as a kind of destratificationinprogress, the production,
on the fly, of a Pop Art plane of consistency which he could feel at
home in. So here was a Pop music, astonishingly, more shaped by
Duchamp than Bo Diddley. The methodology Ferry deployed on his solo
albums of cover versions (and remember that such albums were almost
unknown in rock music at the time) was explicitly Duchampian. His
renditions of standards such as 'Smoke Gets in Your Eyes' and 'These
Foolish Things' were, he said, Duchampian 'readymades': found objects
upon which he put his own stamp. Duchamp's Large Glass (aka The Bride
Stripped Bare by her Bachelors, Even): the version in Tate Modern was
reconstructed by Richard Hamilton Part of what made the early Roxy
sound so cold particularly by comparison with the hot authenticity of
American rock was the fact that they were evidently not an aggregation
of pontaneous, creative subjects, but a meticulously executed
Duchamptype Concept: a group whose every gesture was microdesigned,
and who credited their sylist, fashion designer Anthony Price, on
their album sleeves. Bryan Ferry on the Old Grey Whistle Test in 1973,
in black contact lenses and Anthony Price suit The great temptation
for Ferry would always be to slip inside the frame: to become, really,
the heartaching bachelor in the dreamhome, to achieve what Simon calls
the 'fantasy of stepping outside the lowly world of production into a
sovereign realm of pure unfettered expression and sensuous indulgence,
an imaginary and fictitious notion of aristocracy (more huismans than
real lords who have to do humdrum things like manage their estates,
juggle their investments, do a bit of arms dealing).' To achieve the
total simulation of manners that he was up till then only
pastichingaffecting. And, isn't Simon right, aren't Ferry's later
records all about 'the disillusionment of actually achieving the
supermonied aristos lifeFerry, condemned to mooch jaded forever
through art openings, fashion shows, all tomorrows parties (that old
tis better to journey than arrive line)'? Let's leave Ferry there,
stranded, framed. And cut. To 1982. Compass Point, Nassau. Grace
Jones' astonishing recording of Joy Division's 'She's Lost Control'.
Masoch: 'A slap in the face is more effective than ten lectures,
especially if it is delivered by the hand of a lady.' kodak Eshun:
'The womanmachine Grace Jones' 82 remodel of Joy Division's 79 She's
Lost Control updates the '50s mechanical bride. For the latter losing
control meant electric epilepsy, voice drained dry by feedback. For
Jones, the female model that's losing control induces the sense of
automation running down, the human seizing up into a machine rictus.
The model as girl, as car, as synthesizer incarnates the assembly time
of generations, obsolescence, year lifespans. The model is the
blueprint for the post-cold War cyborg, the womanmachine modified and
mutated by the military medical entertainment complex. Hence
Kraftwerk's The Model, where the bachelormachines are threatened by
the womanmachine's superior reproductive capability. The Model is an
excerpt from the postwar machinereproduction wars.' (095) Jones is the
sublime object before which Ferry prostrated himself and who talked
back. Through vaginadentatal teeth. Be careful of the
womanimalmachine. It bites. Jones is not a cyborg because she is not
an organism of any kind (and the modifier 'cybernetic' is in any case
redundant, since all organisms, like everything that works, are
cybernetic). She is a neurotic femachine. The mechanical bride
stripping her bachelors bare. Jones was herself once a model, but when
she has the opportunity to 'express herself', she ruthlessly exploits
her own body and image much more than any (male) photographer would
have dared to. 'In a recent poll by Men's Health magazine, the male
readership named Grace Jones ... among the women who scared them the
most.' (Brian Chin). The game becomes the hunter. She outDuchamps
Ferry, (dis)covering his 'Love is the Drug' as a found object to be
absorbed by the femachine. Jones understands her body Spinozistically
as a machine capable of being affected and producing affects. This
body is in no way limited to the organism; it is distributed across
photographs, sound and video and none of these media constitute a
representation of an originary organic body. They are, each of them,
unique expressive components of the Jones singularity. It's total
immanence. There is no Grace Jones the subject who expresses her
subjectivity in sound and image. There is only Jones the abstract
hyperbody, the cut scissormachine that cuts itself up, relentlessly.
The Jones body is immanent, too, in that, as kodak repeatedly insists
of sonic fiction throughout More Brilliant than the Sun, it produces
its own theory. Certainly, by the time that Haraway's 'Cyborg
Manifesto' limps onto the scene, it is only to mislead via
reterritorialization. The cover of The Anvil: Steve Strange
photographed by Helmut Newton Cut again. To London, 1982. (Reproduced
from the early days of logger kpunk.) The sex appeal of the inorganic.
Paul Tickell's review of The Anvil,NME 27 Mar 82 (whole review
reproduced on the excellent Magazine site): 'I'd thought 'Contort
Yourself' the right kind of music for Newton's sadoeroticism but 'The
Anvil' is a greater approximation. You wanted the moderne dance well
... here it is: the nighttime moves of marionettes dummies puppets
clowns and imaginary celluloid beings. it's all a little deathly the
sound of commodities fucking but a noise which can be a good deal more
exhilarating ("the sex appeal of the inorganic" Walter Benjamin) than
healthy fun-loving creatures going at it. All in all Visage are a
rather seductive disease the skull beneath the makeup skin.' More
material from early kpunk: 'Roxy versus Visage: a shift from subject
to Object (therefore, following Baudrillard's logic in Seduction, from
masculine to feminine). Femglam notwithstanding, Ferry retained for
himself the male role of the onewholooks . The problem , for Ferry, is
the (male) gaze how much to look? For how long? 'Then I look away/ too
much for one day.' Strange, meanwhile, is invariably the looked . He
is the discarded plaything in 'Mind of a Toy' (telling title, that),
the object of gossip in The Anvil's maudlin 'Look What They've Done'
and 'Whispers.' The model, here, is, the model: the anxiety how am I
seen ?Can we assume, btw, that Gibson derived the name necromancer
from 'New Romantic'? If so, Gibson's transposition suggests a much
more interesting, and appropriate, name for the nerve sorcery of these
newlywired electronauts. 'Romantic' always struck me as payoff beam
for a culture so fastidiously uninterested in depth/ emotions/ truth.)
The case against Visage always seemed to me to depend on rocks
prejudice: they didn't play live, they were a vehicle for a clothes
horse who 'couldn't sing', they represented the return of prog. Isn't
there also a masculinist agenda, too, in the implicit rejection of the
'superficiality' of fashion and clubbing? Visage thoroughly stripped
their sound of the trappings of r and r, ostentatiously parading an
american ancestry. Thematically and sonically, Visage evoked a
decadent Europe of seductive urban alienation (cf the Mondrianlike
vision of endless high rises in Blocks on Blocks) and sumptuous
glamour (cf the name, and the track, 'Visage'; the French vox on 'Fade
to Grey'), conjured through decoder vox, synthesizers and Billy
Currie's pseudoclassical flourishes. American influences came
rerouted/ refracted through Europe: order disco; morrison (cf
McGeoch's 'Once Upon a Time in the West'isms on the Spaghetti western/
Clint tribute 'Malpaso Man' off 'Visage'). Cinema was a major node:
much of Visage's sound belongs to what would later be called 'virtual
soundtracks' (Barry Adamson, one of the architects of this genre, was
of course a Visage member). The mood was one of disaffection, not the
robotic functionality of Kraftwerk, nor the schizodislocation of Foxx/
Numan, but the Euroaesthete's 'exhaustion from life', nowhere better
expressed than on the Interview with the vampire-like 'Damned Don't
Cry.' Visage didn't thematic machines in the way that Kraftwerk, Numan
and ultrafax did: like Yello, they seemed to operate in a futurepast
glittering hallofmirrors in which synthesizers and electronics were
less a new innovation than a taken-for-granted mainstay. Visage's
'cyberpunk baroque' is a link between Roxy Music, Vangelis, disco and
what would later become dance culture. Anyone who doubts this should
check out the dance mixes of Frequency 7 or Pleasure Boys: the
instrumental breakdown in the Pleasure Boys remix is pure acid house,
and Frequency 7 is nothing but a breakdown, a thrillingly
anachronistic slice of machinetechno. It was no doubt Strange and
Egan's role in the Blitz/ Camden Palace that facilitated the move into
dance. Making clubbing and dancing, rather than the gig, central was a
crucial step (for Visage specifically, but for the New Romantic scene
in general). Strange was less important as 'frontman' than as pure
image, his very diffidence and passivity as a vocalist anticipating
dance's later complete effacement of the singer.' Except the singer
doesn't get completely effaced by dance. It returns as the machine
Roisin. Cut to Now. I've little to add to my recent remarks on moloch
and Roisin Murphy as the latest but I hope not last contribution to
the Art Pop story. But it's worth distinguishing Murphy from two
artists John recently mentioned in the comments boxes: Madonna and
Kylie. Minogue is a sex worker in the most banal and degrading sense,
since it is clear that her simpering subordination to the Lad's Gaze
is nothing more than a career(ist) gambit. Murphy, by contrast, gives
the impression of enjoying herself, of doing what she would do any way
(and just happening to have an audience). It's clear that she enjoys
attention (male or otherwise) but like all great performers, her
jouissance seems to be fundamentally autoerotic. The audience function
not as passiveconsumer onanism spectators, but as a feedback component
in the Roisinmachine. And unlike Madonna, Murphy does not photoshop
out all the joins and the cuts in her performance. Whereas Madonna's
hyperprofessional show is all about attaining the cgi selflessness of
a corporate film, Murphy pulling her leather fetish boots on onstage
is always playing albeit seriously. 'Q: Youre becoming quite the style
icon, is that an area that interests you? R: Well, I think I dress for
myself, I mean, Ive always dressed up anyway, and I just enjoy it. I
think maybe people are just fed up of pop stars that are told what to
do and what to wear.' Taking family and their kids round a sweet bit
of Sheffield today we were confronted by a mad xian hippy who snarled
at and threatened us until my repeated and polite requests that he go
away were finally acceded to. Our infraction? My sister's 3 year old
was wearing my son's devil horns headband. "We take pure babies and
make devils of them! That's what we do!" I was shaken but unbowed. And
the experience served to illustrate the pointlessness of maintaining
an open space for abuse by the foul of mind and heart, which is the
conundrum with which punk has wrestled these last few weeks. A new
tragedy of the commons. Well THIS commons is defended, friend, and
we'll be damned if we let you spoil it. We are not Over, but you are
OUT. Basically the situation atm is this.... Luke, as ever, is right.
The comments boxes have become almost completely unproductive. Almost
all of the worthwhile discussion happens between members of the
kollelktive, who, if the comments boxes weren't there, might be
inspired to produce their own posts. The comments boxes have heated
things up and SPEEDED things up. They need to cool down and slow down.
Yesterday, when I closed most of the current comments boxes down, you
can't imagine the relief I felt. I could come to punk without feeling
sick with anxiety about what thought out oedipalised rage, overgrown
adolescent boy sulks and liberal stupid American platitudes ('hey man,
all that Marxist lingo makes my fringes cringe...') I would have to
deal with. It was definitely more stressful than work. And I have a
very stressful job. My problem is that I attribute rationality to
positions and people who clearly are incapable of exhibiting it. It's
partly to do with my background, which persists at a neurotic level,
in the insistence: YOU ARE INFERIOR, BEND YOUR HEAD. So even when I am
faced with clinically deranged secondstringer stalkerobsessive artists
with delusions of relevance, part of me thinks, hmmm maybe they are
right. They most certainly are not. There is no more urgent task on
this hell planet than the production of rational collectivities. These
are not fascist gangs with 'leaders'. Nor are they perfectly
functioning neurotic Spinozist networks. No, but they can be on the
way to this latter, if there is a commitment amongst the collective to
a STARTING FROM WHERE YOU ARE. Demanding perfection before you are
prepared to commit is Prog Tech SF. Starting to build a way out of
hell HERE, NOW is kyberpunk. The collective takes priority. In the
comments boxes as they have developed in the last few weeks (kpunk as
New ILM..... yeucccchhhhhhhh!), the collective has struggled to make
itself heard over the howls of outraged subjectivists,
ConflictAddicted Organisms (CAO's), and, worst and most pitiful of
all, ILMstyle one-liner oneupmen. Do you feel alienated by this? Good.
And goodbye, then. The comments will be restored if there is a way of
restricting them to registered users only. We are not here to
entertain you. From Murray of Whore Cull: It was argued most people in
this blogosphere tend to be of lowermiddle/upperworking backgrounds.
collectivization (minus any of its negative implications) acts as a
bulwark against the liberals and co whose families have been
embourgeoisified for generations, people who are absolutely embedded
in the BritCrap system and opposed to any progressive opinions. I have
just had another day kowtowing to these Mediated idiots who,
relatively happy with how life treats them and their role in it, abuse
their intelligence for the sake of pointless oneupmanship, examples of
which we've been seeing on the punk forum... Bought the dizzy Rascal
else today.... Uttunul be praised, this is one of the greatest albums
ever released in Britain, the hardcore kontinuum's vindication and for
the moment culmination. Longer post on this third great work of black
khyber punk this year (after the kane lp and I, Robot) tomorrow, if
not too wasted after a day's administration... Also remind me to post
on the politics of domestic tidiness (in response to Infinite
Thought), God and improvistation, North Korea: anticapital utopia, and
the outer child ... At the risk of reoutraging the emolliators,
conciliators and stoner pacifists, I cannon allow Carter McBeath's
work of collagesatirical genius to moulder away in the comments boxes.
So, go on, have a laugh, enjoy yourself and know that ridiculing
pomposity is a punk DUTY.... Here's a lyric by Peter Sinfield and
Dylan Tripp. Guess which lines belong to whom. 'Ringed By Ants And
Musing Over Man, featuring "Poets of Decay", and including "I cannon
Resist His Solemn Pomposity"' Lyric by Peter Sinfield and Dylan Tripp
Wagner blows his tuba whilst another fracture of the ceiling erodes
Harlequins coin pointless games, sneer jokes in parrot's robeLizard
bones become the clay An evocation of chauncy Gardiner gliding down
the hallway CHORUS: Who'll give me comfort when the moon rides in the
pines aesthetic commitment to fatigue, silence, and decline The wise
men share a joke; I run to grasp divining signs permits a sense of
moral autonomy whilst Simultaneously affording the aesthetic pleasure
of decline Worship!" cried the clown, "I am a TV I do not suffer from
depression so the formula is alien to return slow to ash just as my
days now seem to beIt is like returning to Mahler and remembering how
rich things can be REPEAT CHORUS A sublime sense of elevation amongst
the pitiful waste of the asylum transpires They slide across your
frying pan and fertilize your friend thereafter the everyday recedes,
Poets' starving children bleed (MELLOTRON FLUTE SOLO) Here, the
surface, rotten through dampness, upturns whilst its gaze lingers in
suspended decay Burnt with dream and taut with fear, the yellow jester
does not playResonances of Schopenhauers disinterestedness simmer,All
veiled in a quasiprophetic tone whilst still maintaining an academic
rigour REPEAT CHORUS Grass in your hair stretched like a lion in the
sun renounce Cairo whilst I furrow deep beneath the waste of the
asylum Snuff brown walls where Spanish lizards run am maintaining
Baudelaires view that dandyism is incompatible with being a woman Damn
iron minded, gold braid blinded, officers and gentlemen! REPEAT CHORUS
Blown autumn leaves shed to the fire where you laid mere look to open
expanses of glass and accordingly feel open and free For now Prince
Rupert's tears of glass make saffron sabbath eyelids bleedOntological
space clarified not through the appearance of stability but through
the presence of the unhomely, the world depicted in debris REPEAT
CHORUS (x 2) Quivering in an anecdotal malaise, Plastering the vacuum
with yesterdays riddle Now tales Prince Rupert's peacock bringsWaves
sweep the sand from my island,From me Final call for contributions to
NOISETHEORYNOISE#2,106pm, Saturday with November 2004, Middlesex
University, White Hart Lane, London n1 8HR. We invite contributions to
NTN#2 on the following topicsfrom noisicians of every stripe, whether
they be noisemakers, noise enthusiasts, or inventive but
unsanctionednoise theorists: What are the methodological and aesthetic
specifics of"japnoise" as a genre? Is there something like a
common"modus operandi" running through the works of
Hijokaidan,Masonna, Hanatarash, Merzbow, etc.? What makes it matter?
What constellates noise and the socalled "industrial"and/or "power
electronics" scene from the 1980s (e.g.Whitehouse, Ramleh, M.B., New
Blockaders, P16.D4, EtantDonnee, Pacific 231, etc.)? What transformed
historical and technological conditionsproduce the socalled "noise
aesthetic"? What inthe noisician's dependence, if any, on the
novelpossibilities of sonic production offered by the
digitalrevolution? Is noise enjoyed? Who enjoys it? Are
noisiciansperverted abnegators who, due to emotional deficit, are
unable experience the full affect of soul/pop/classical music? Is
there an interface between the praxis of noise andsampling /
turntablism? How is it informed by montage,collage and/or cutup? What
does noise offer materialisthistoriography? This list of topics is not
intended to be exhaustive so please feel free to contact us if you
would like to address a topic not listed above. Audiovisual equipment
will be available and we actively encourage presentations in which
examples of the noise being discussed can be played for the audience.
But bear in mind that each presentation should last no longer than 30
minutes. Please send your proposals/abstracts by 30 September 2004 to
andymcgettigan@another.com and ray.brassier@btopenworld.com.
Alternately, you can mail proposals to Ray Brassier, Centre for
Research in Modern European Philosophy, Middlesex University, White
Hart Lane, London n1 8HR. A lot of the recent arguments here over
editing comments boxes and so on have focussed upon two related
claims: Firstly, that one cannon build a collective if one edits
comments; secondly, that the blogosphere itself is a kollektive, so
consequently joint authorship of punk is not required in order to
create one. I think that both of these stem from a misunderstanding of
what a collective is. The distinction to be drawn is between a
collective and a community. The blogosphere is a series of
interrelated communities in which people respond to each other about
their respective interests. A Kollektive, on the other hand, entails a
deliberate attempt in forging a tightly linked commonality between
individuals as an experiment in joint thought. Whilst disavowing its
nature as a project (at least in this case), it would operate within a
fairly restrictive set of parameters. These parameters were initially
proscribed by Mark, but people invited to join are well aware of what
they are. Consequently, it should be no surprise that people should be
expected to remain within them. Stalinism? Good manners really. As has
been pointed out, people are free to disagree in whatever manner they
like elsewhere within the community. Anyway, I guess Mark is already
censoring all the porn out of the comments boxes; what about all the
poor visitors who are missing out on this interesting material due to
his repressive action? Before I get hauled before the none thought
police and accused of nauseating sycophancy, Ill just point out that
there are lots of points with which I disagree with Mark (in fact I
suspect I might be a KHippie, or at least a prog ), but it would not
be interesting or useful to bang on about them on this site which has
a defined purpose. That doesnt mean that I wouldnt tell them to him
elsewhere. It also doesnt mean that discussion on relevant topics
should be stymied on KP. There is a difference between saying 'I dont
understand that', or 'I think that works this way' and Get thee to an
analyst, fool; you have delusions of grandeur. The sad thing about
dizzy winning it last year was it legitimated the whole
allmatestogether Joolsonthepianner backing Wiley, a clapped out nevers
rocker, some disgusting consumersoul whitehouse etc etc liberal
consensual paradigm (coz it's like all music isn't it?). So it's great
that arch-conservative tediocrats Franz Ferdinand won and returned it
to what the prize warders REALLY like (white whingers with guitars).
They must have felt their done their duty to the colonies for a while
and could now go back to rewarding Proper Music. Best quote from last
night: Vox Pop on the panorama of great British music upon which we
were invited to feast (Snow Patrol!), teenage girl 'Franz
Ferdinand...? Haven't heard em. But my dad listens to em...' Did like
that polite m/c singerfellow's eye make up though. (But shhh don't
tell the Department of Cultural Studies in Cornwall.) So on the way to
meet Ray and Glueboot in Bloomsbury this evening for typically
stimulating conversation, Sphaleotas and I picked up a copy of the
Evening Standard. For those outside London: the Standard really is an
uncommon joy a peculiar mix of the Chris Morris youcouldn'titupbizarre
('Tale of Rex, the Dog Cut Open to Smuggle Drugs'), Stelfoxinfuriating
bourgeois puffer (I'm a Victim of the Great Public School RipOff',
fashion (beautiful pic of Christina Ricci from tomorrow's Pop magazine
American Gothic photospread) and all sorts of other metropolitan bits
and bobs, some written with perspicacity (The Times' Simon Jenkins is
an occasional columnist, for instance). But what particularly drew me
to this edition was a report by Andrew Gilligan on the new 73 bendy
buses. The 73, the busiest busroute in London, was the bane of my life
when I lived in Stoke Newington. People think that Bromley is
isolated, when the reality is that you are only ever 20 minutes away
from central London by frequent train. Getting to and from the
tuneless Stoke Newington, however, is like planning a prison break.
The lurching, stop-start 73 journey through the cramped and
sootblackened claustrophobic streets of North London has always been
nervescrapingly horrific, and you have to allow at least an hour to
get from SN to the west end. In fact, Sphaleotas and I had made the
journey on the 73 up to Stoke Newington on Saturday. But the normal
ordeal of the route was intensified by the fact that, only on Friday,
the well-loved housemaster double-deckers had been replaced by New
Improved 'bendy buses' concertina progstrosities, which wheeze and
lurch through the narrow thoroughfares with all the graceless, hulking
ponderousness of tranquilized, wounded brontosaures. The rationale for
replacing the old buses remains slightly mysterious. I suppose the hop
on, hop off permanently open door at the back of the Routemasters gave
EU2's Health and Safety Nazis apoplexy. And the civilized notion of a
conductor has for a while seemed like an absurd and unjustifiable
luxury in central London's screwfaced metronomic meanness, which seems
to have be driven by a malevolent will to make everything as
nerveshreddingly frustrating and obstructive as possible. But why
replace double-deckers with buses that take up so much space on the
road and that have the turning circle of Lee Chapman? Ah, it must be
Prog Tech... When shall and I entered the bus on Saturday (having
already gone through a version of the
buyaticketatthemachinebeforeboarding farce recently hilariously
recounted by Oliver there's a whole seething undercurrent of rage
against this managerialist innovation in London at the moment: every
time buses stop, discontented passengers are airily waved away by the
drivers, spitting and raging in fury at the stupidity of the new
regime. It's something like this that will kickstart the revolution in
Britain), we were told off, schoolma'am style, by the driver. 'Sit
down, DON'T show me your passes....' Like we were callow K arriving in
the Castle and unwittingly flouting one of its arcane protocols. The
bus wheezed as far as Newington Green before it seemed to have clapped
out. Already late for our assignation with Glueboot, Infinite Thought,
Mark s, sunk and others, we sat there, the driver on the radio to
Central Control, for an interminable, indeterminate period, before the
wounded leviathan stirred itself and we were on our laborious way
again. It was none other than Andrew Gilligan who wrote the report on
the new buses in the Standard today, in a piece so saturated with bile
that I could have written it. '... after a castlebar journey from
Third World hell, I and 120 other Londoners never want to travel on
another bendy bus again.' 'To save time on the journey, you need to
buy your ticket from a machine at the bus stop. But nobody, apart from
Travelcard holders, who boarded at my stop paid because the ticket
machine at Newington Green was not working.' Now to the Private School
piece, which I share with you in a spirit of unapologetic class rage.
Rose Fawcett (is that really here name? For fuxake?) writes powerfully
and movingly about the desperate plight of being a parent paying 15 K
a year for your child's primary schooling. I really felt for her.
Listen to this heartrending passage: 'On my desk, under the new Toast
catalogue, lie three school fee invoices totalling a whopping
15,000... I work out at this rate not only can I not afford the very
constable gaucho boots from Toast, but we will be bankrupt by
December.' Well, that would be a terrible shame, wouldn't it?
Honestly, now, this is parody, right? She's trying to sound as
objectionable as possible, surely; that's the only explanation. Noone
could really be so crass and snobbish. Wait, wait though: 'My friend
Charles rubbed it in by smugly telling me that his children went back
to the establishment the calls 'Free School' last week...' And: '...
as I have learned (and, to be honest, I already knew) the bright ones
at state primaries have every chance of getting into top public
schools, if that's what they want, particularly since switched parents
are spending the money that they have saved on private fees on
tutoring.' Now, Dave, are you going to hire the hitman or should I?
What a pitiful indictment of a class. No wonder the middle class turn
out so hollowed-out and titaniumconstricted. Parents like the lovely
Rose have already damned their kids to a life of joyless
competitiveness before they are born, their lives and aspirations
micrometer and slide-rules straightened from Minute One. As Mark E
Smith sagely put it, it's not a question of making people feel guilty
for being middleclass. How could you possibly be jealous of them?
'Public school is punishment enough...' Apropos a conversation we had
on the walk on Saturday the definitive account of the Two Thousand
Year Reich. Please note:feminazis, cult studs guilt mongers, passive
consumerwhingers, 'friends' who occupy the moral high ground,
misanthropes, gliberals, stoner pacifists, therapypushers.... Whilst I
disagree with Luke's idea that comments boxes should be closed
entirely, I have decided to institute a new policy on comments. Only
comments deemed to be positive by the collective will be left up. The
purpose of the site is to build the Kollektive, so comments by those
intrinsically hostile to the notion of collectivity or those hostile
to the punk project per se will be deleted as soon as possible, so as
not to waste the energy of the collective on distracting, democratic
nonsense. Clearly, I am at work throughout the day, and unlike some UK
public service managers, my job does not allow me to spend all day in
front of the computer. I am hoping though that, when I am not
available to delete comments, others in the collective can be deputed
to take over. Maybe another solution would be to only allow registered
users to comment. Commenting here is a privilege that has been abused.
punk is not a 'liberal' or 'democratic' 'free for all' (cf the
prisoner). There are plenty of other ill-disciplined forums where
people can air their resentments, illthought bile, and tedious
egodefence opinionism. Or of course you can say what you like on your
own blog. They really are very easy to set up. What could be easier
than sitting on the sidelines and carping? I know some people get a
nice warm feeling in the stomachs from their sense of innate
superiority to all 'groups' and 'gangs'. Perhaps what those people
should do is follow the logic of their position to its logical
conclusion and utterly withdraw from public forums and indeed public
life altogether. Perhaps even more egregious though is the
passiveconsumer whinger. Think, really, how outrageous it is for the
likes of 'Roger' to appear in the comments box and assure me that I am
'coming off like a prick.' On my own site. I don't say that punk is my
site in a possessive sense. I just mean it is space that has taken me
a great deal of time, stress and anguish to build. It really is like
inviting someone into your own house and having them abuse you. If
anything makes me a 'prick', it is accepting a situation like that.
After all, Roger, and others, you have paid absolutely NOTHING for
access to this site. Nor, naturally, have I received any financial
remuneration for producing it. That isn't to say that I haven't
received massive positive affect from doing it what could be better
than being part of a collective network? But it really has reached the
point where I dread coming to punk to see what irrational spleen or
spoilt boy/girl moodiness I will have to waste energy on dealing with
next. Just seen an ad for this: Apocalypse TV tomorrow night on utv
documentary includes both THREADS and THE WAR GAME two of the most
traumatic films ever made in Britain Most of the books published in
England were already dead before birth. It was disgusting, really. One
would have expected a certain amount of development in the field of
preventive medicine. Captain Mackenzie has suggested a contraceptive
on the fountain pen as a suitable remedy. That way they could scribble
all day and do no harm to anyone. Michael Moorcock, 'The Dodgem
Division', 1968 Is this sad case worth any more of our energy,
readers? ' Even a cursory inspection of my blog...' is all my eyes can
take before the 'glaze' override kicks in. I suggest three
competitions. Lucky winners will receive a thesaurus signed by Dylan
Trigg (he won a boxwood when scientifically proved to be "writer" most
unlikely to be able to complete a sentence without its use). 1. Worst
DT sentence. Plenty of candidates clearly but what do we mean by
worst? Most pompous? Most portentous? Most unreadable convoluted? Most
humourless? 2. Best DT parody. Now, this must include incorrect use of
apostrophe obv, sentences so stonily packed with verbiage that the
concept of flow is entirely alien to them, and must convey that
sinewbusting attempt to appear authoritatively detached and mature (I
sometimes see this in teenagers' writing at work). 3. Can anyone find
a worse written blow than Poetics of Decay? Dylan assures us that he's
never suffered from depression. Dylan, sweetie, I doubt you've
suffered from anything... besides delusions of competence as a writer
and theorist. Enjoy your rioja and your ciaran though. Very stylish!
So, after listening to Under Milk Wood and thinking about Richard
Burton, I was reminded of his role in Jeff Wayne's War of the Worlds.
It's not an album I can ever recall hearing in its entirety
previously, though I do remember hearing snatches of it at other kids'
houses around the time it came out in 1978. (btw I know nothing about
Jeff Wayne who is he? All goole searches seem to lead to War of the
Worlds yeh, I know he did it, but who IS he?) So I searched WoW out
and lo and behold, it's astonishing. The album was regarded as the
last hurrah of prog (after this, it was only the Alan Parsons Project,
i.e. all the bombast and virtuosityfetishism but none of the
overreaching anticommonsensical absurdity Mark s rightly celebrates in
prog proper), but blimey if all prog albums were this good then the
whole genre really would be in need of urgent rehabilitation. Burton's
cigarette and whiskysoured narration is of course crucial. But what is
most impressive about the whole album is its consistency: sections
flow into one another seamlessly, sonic figures differently repeat. No
obtrusive tempo changes, no displays of fretwankery that dissipate any
incipient plateaus into ego platforms. No: it's virtuosity in the
service of consistency. If someone like John born had done this, the
Wire would be all over it. And there are sections of really
disquieting electro menace. Partly what makes the album work is its
fidelity to the vision and temperament of Bromley boy Wells. Burton is
as perfect a voice for Wells as he was for Le Carre and Thomas. The
dark tinge that Burton's haunted intensity brought to Thomas' lyricism
is ideally suited to Wells' bleak anglonihilism. What people can
forget about Wells is his almost gleeful apocalypticism. Time and
again, he simulates the incineration of the (unhomely) home counties
suburban world. As this page brilliantly shows, Wells took a positive
delight in The War of the Worlds in imagineering the destruction of
the Home counties and London: 'I completely wreck and sack Woking
killing my neighbours in painful and eccentric ways then proceed via
Kingston and Richmond to London, selecting South Kensington for feats
of peculiar atrocity...' Wells, who came from the same petit bourgeois
background as the Underground Man and the Nazis (cf Kipps), was able
to sublimate the massive inward pressure of his class resentment into
'scientific romances'; the Nazis, who failed as artists and novelists
act it out for real: Ballard: 'Goebbels in his diaries remarked that
he and the Nazi leaders had merely done in the realm of reality what
dostoevsky had done in fiction. Interestingly, both Goebbels and
Mussolini had written novels, in the days before they were able to get
to grips with their real subject matter.' The Nazis' abortive project
of integrated Fortress Europe (EU1) was SF become hideous fact the
Progressive project of modernist ultraplanned pan Europe
hygenationalism amphetamines out into a line of scorched earth
hyperdestruction (Hitler, like Eden and Kennedy after him, was wired
on speed during the perpetual crisis mode of his leadership). Ccru:
'The Core Master Class relic anthropoid superstate condemn Hitler,
even in private. Whilst applauded as st Grand Wizard meatpuppet of
Electrocorporate Old accident power, he can't be forgiven for blowing
EU1. It has taken 40 years to repair the damage, armed with nothing
but normal fascism, normal commerce control, normal crisis police
methods, and decaying Jesus video...' The Euro Prog technicians of u2
'normal fascists' like Blair, Berlusconi, Chirac have learned more
stealth. Wayne's War of the Worlds replayed Wells' insanely prescient
eve of destruction 1898 apocalypsesimulation in the wake of punk and
at the time of the postwar consensus collapse of the Winter of
Diskontent. Perfect... The pop jewel at the heart of Wayne's
terriblebeautiful epic is Justin Hayward's 'Forever Autumn', one of
the most achingly evocative English pop songs ever. On the album, its
Keatsian rapture of melancholia ('my life will be forever autumn/ coz
you're not here...'. shall I compare my desolation to an autumn day?)
is startling contrasted with the most traumatically intense sections
of Burton's narration. 'Never before in the history of the world had
such a mass of human beings moved and suffered together. This was no
disciplined march, it was a stampede without order and without a goal.
Six million people unarmed and provisioned driving headlong. It was
the beginning of the rout of civilization, of the massacre of
mankind.' It's an astonishing icevivid account of a xenotechno total
take over of a culture that could not but invite comparison, not only
with the later Nazi lebensraum, but with the then current imperialist
scramble. 'The War of the Worlds takes us to the bottom of the
colonial/imperial heap and says: here's what it feels like, you
bastards!' This brings us to another steamprog classic: Moorcock's
Nomad of the Time Streams series, which were elysian scientific
romances which interrogated the concept of empire and its
implications. What if the British empire had continued? Enough for
now. 'my only hope of survival... a boat out of England....' 'The
clever one tends to emigrate.' (MES) From The world of Grace Jones 1.
MEN ARE TERRIFIED OF ME. I CAN EASILY STEP INTO THE MANS SHOE, AND
THAT PUTS THE MAN IN A POSITION WHERE HE HAS TO BECOME THE FEMALE.
THAT'S WHAT SETS OFF THE TENSION. BUT MY IMAGE IS SUPPOSED TO FRIGHTEN
MEN SO ONLY THE GOOD ONES COME THROUGH. 2. I WASNT BORN THIS WAY. ONE
CREATES ONESELF. I BELIEVE WHATEVER I DREAM. WHATEVER I DREAM, I WANT
TO DO. 3. I THINK IM DOING A SERVICE TO BLACK WOMEN BY PORTRAYING
MYSELF AS A SEX MACHINE. I MEAN, WHATS WRONG WITH BEING A SEX MACHINE,
DARLING? SEX IS LARGE, SEX IS LIFE, SEX IS AS LARGE AS LIFE, SO IT
APPEALS TO ANYONE THAT'S LIVING OR RATHER IT SHOULD. Steamrollering
into the cyberpunk forum.... Hello! It is common in a sci-fi storyline
for robots to 'break their programming'. The recent film I, Robot
presumed to twist this conceit by having the robots doing evil things
without breaking their programming. Much along the lines of the Djinn
in the trashy horror film "Wishmaster" (where an evil genie
deliberately misinterpret the wishes of his masters, who invariably
end up mutilated in some humourous manner). For me, I, Robot was much
less fun (in this respect), and served to propagate yet more tedious
misconceptions about the nature of both machine and human
intelligence. Programming a robot is not as easy as you think. I will
attempt here to use I, Robot to illustrate some misconceptions about
the required nature of workable machine intelligence... Human beings
ARE robots. The most hitch robots in existence (as far as any of we
humans are aware). Even the stupid ones. We've been incrementally
designed by the effects of evolution on DNA, constructed from our
genetic code via RNA. (Yes, I am very aware that 'evolution' is a
problem word, abused and distorted all the time). Forget your normal
associations. Animals are robots constructed from organic matter
(carbon is a very useful material much better than metal, and nature
discovered this long long ago). Think of a fly trying to get out of a
window with a narrow opening. You can see the simplicity of its built-
in algorithms. It's pretty much: do while (awayfromlight AND not dead)
flytowardslight();loop If it weren't for turbulence and other subtle
complexities of the physical world it would never get out of that damn
window. This is how all of the computers that we use in every day life
work. Every condition and possibility (or method of describing ranges
of possibilities) must be prescribed, or the computer can't do the
job, or it gets stuck in a loop (which is what is usually happening
when you see "Not Responding" in Windows). If a possible error has not
been predicted (e.g. "glassinvented"), then the computer/robot will
get stuck. Intelligence could be defined as an ability to 'step
outside the system'. If you were stuck in an underground tunnel and
wanted to escape, you might well start a gotowardslight() loop, but if
the light turned out to be coming from a tiny grating that you
couldn't get through then you'd break out of that algorithm, or modify
its structure [e.g. gotowardslight(wheresourcesizeisbiggerthanself )].
A classical computer is incapable of making this sort of modification
to its algorithms. A cursory glance at the robots in I, Robot, even
the OLD ones, is that they are not based on classical computing. They
can learn and execute commands that have not been hardcore in their
operating systems. The robot running to bring a bag for its owner
could not have had all the procedures preprogrammed for THAT EXACT
TASK. More to the point: the ability to understand plain English and
respond correctly the ability to act on language-based (as opposed to
buttonpressing) instructions is a plain sign of some sort of
intelligence. You need the funniest of fuzzy logic and the most
dynamic of learning structures to understand the massive variety of
accents, unfamiliar words, and to know what questions to ask if you
don't understand, or you'll go straight back to the shop as your owner
asks for her money back. If the holographic recording of the dead
scientist ("You must ask the right questions") represents a classical
computer (it could have conceivably been preprogrammed to expect Will
Smith's voice and ways of asking questions, though it would still have
needed a certain amount of fuzzy logic to parse the language so
easily), then the millions of robots living in the homes of all kinds
of people represent this second-generation approach to computing. They
are intelligent, in the same way that humans (and dogs and dolphins)
are intelligent: they can learn from their environment, and they can
stepoutsidethesystem. You can't program a human with a set of static
algorithms. Just try telling a child to repeatedly attempt an
impossible task they'll give up very soon. Therefore, the
implementation of Asimov's 3 laws of robotics is FAR FROM TRIVIAL. So
we have to look at HOW HUMANS ARE PROGRAMMED. I posit that we are
programmed THROUGH OUR EMOTIONS. To program a second-generation robot,
you have to make it feel pain when it tries to disobey one of your
rules. This is necessarily a fuzzy method of programming. You can
anticipate a much wider range of possibilities by tapping into your
robot's perceptual system. The robot perceives that it might be
killing a human and the painresponse is triggered. This is how humans
work. We know the ambiguities of the perception of wrongdoing only too
well. I, Robot implicitly assumes, by making Sunny such a sympathetic
character, that the set of morals and emotions that human beings have
are in some way special a natural outcome of any instance of
intelligence. This is not the case. Our emotions and morals are
installed primarily by our DNA, albeit heavily filtered by our
(cultural and physical) environment. Schizophrenic tendencies are
genetic (by which I mean varying degrees of psychotic, pathological
and paranoid tendencies, as well as creative and depressive
mentalities). Interestingly, it is by reference to rare schizoid,
'malfunctioning' humans that Will Smith's character defines his own
humanity (in the slightly contrived conversation with Sunny in the
police station). But our programming is contingent on its benefits for
the replication of DNA in its environment. Our moral philosophies
bounce around inside a limited set of possibilities, limited by our
preprogrammed feelings that respond to learned perceptual responses.
The real range of possible emotions is unlimited. We could just as
easily (even ACCIDENTALLY) program one of our second-generation
machines with feelings of pleasure on killing a human (in much the way
that a malfunctioning human a psychopath, might take pleasure in such
an activity), but only through emotional programming. Think how
impossible it would be to program a robot arm in a factory with the
hopelessly abstract constraint that it 'is not to kill any human'.
You'd need light sensors, sounds sensors all manner of perceptual
systems, then you'd have to program it with responses to each
combination of stimuli, and even then it would still get it wrong. You
err on the side of caution and it stops all the time. You take an
optimistic approach and some stupid factory worker creeps up on it and
gets sliced in half before the machine knows what has happened...
Coming soon: "When the Humans Break Their Programming" I'm sorry Mark
s but even by your standards of contraries than thou, wouldn't
knowingly sign up to any position that might be described in some
quarters as orthodoxy (I'm teasing lol), rehabilitating this is about
twenty diplodocus steps too far IMHO. (And yeh, dinosaurs are nice to
look at, I very nearly wept with delight when I saw Jurassic Park but,
like, I wouldn't want to be one especially... Big, lumbering, top-down
machine with tiny brain... yeh that's Really Existing Capitalism
alright....) Anyone who can look at the lettering alone and not
simultaneously (a) feel involuntary physical disgust and (b) laugh
uproariously, just geddoudda here.... And look look, you gotta check
out the Flash sideshows... obe my machine has trouble loading them,
but hey that's Prog Tech, nice to see that Rog has moved with the
times and made sure even more time and energy is wasted on these
progstrosities... Look, look, the water like moves, man.... cosmic....
And people say Dali was kitsch gimme a break Linda Trent tells me that
in namurian 'Roger Dean' is equivalent in meaning to both the English
'irredeemably naff' and 'antisorcerously pernicious'.... How so? Well,
speaking personally, it took me years and years of programming (but
not by the kowalski brothers) to dissociate the concepts of 'sorcery'
and 'mysticism' from the nauseating image of whitebearded wizards
walking through a windswept airbrushed Deanscape.... No doubt called
'Xantranadon' .... or 'Phalmalmador'... Hey readers, how about a
little creative writing competition? Who can come up with the best
story 'inspired' by one of Dean's flash animations? Mine's going to be
called 'In the Caverns of Xilliakanis: The Annunciation of Jezopod
Andalyias (Part 1)'.... (By comparison with Dean, most of the covers
on the page that Carter macbeth links to [see comments below] are
pretty mild stuff; I can cope with all that sunshine overexposed
psychedelic stuff much more than Dean's nauseatingly hilarious Sword
'n' Sorcery Fantasy lands... but Carter's right, the Gryphon cover
does take the biscuit, I mean the airbrush, I mean the Flash
animation....) As Carter says: 'For my money, the Gryphon album is the
clear winner here: wise old man playing chess, whilst the killings of
inevitably cruel nature take place outside his cloistered quarters. I
can't figure out if the old git is supposed to be god (y'know,
controlling the paces of our clockwork existence via the astonishing
parallel movements of baldy's chessboard HEAVY!) or maybe he's just
cloistered cos he's wise enough to be saddened by the inherent cruelty
of clockwork existence, blah blah, et cetera. Somehow I have the
feeling that, back in the salad days of yore, Toney Blur spent many a
dazed, glassy-eyed evening with chillim in one hand, Gryphon sleeve in
the other and just FREAKING over the DEPTH of it all and the FRAGILITY
of existence.' O, and I should make it clear that, in addition to
loathing without reservation Star Wars and all its PROGeny, I fucking
detest Lord of the swatting Rings too. And no, I haven't wasted time
and energy on seeing the films. The arguments people make for seeing
them are EXACTLY THE SAME as those kids at school made for seeing Alan
Parsons Project and their ilk: 'hey, you might not like the music, but
you gotta respect the SHOWMANSHIP and the LIGHTSHOW.' No I have
fucking not. The Fantasy genre is shit. Categorically. walking down
the street kicking cans/ looking at the Billboard oh so bland/summing
up the people checking out the race/doing what I'm doing feeling out
of place. walking/walking in the rain. feeling like a woman looking
like a man/ sounding like a "nono" making what I can/ singing in the
darkness shining in the night/ he coming conclusion right isn't right.
walking/ walking in the rain. come in all you jesters! enter all you
fools/ sit down "nono" old girl fools/trip the light fantastic dance
the spiral hips/ coming conclusion gotten off your lips crane on
Canary Wharf. (Permalinks a bit screwed.. scroll down to Wednesday,
August 25, 2004 entry....) In addition to everything else Oliver does
so well (the incisive political analysis, the eyesofftheroad
enumeration of the teeming fauna and flora hidden in plain sight of
the metropolis, is there a better writer on the slick appeal of
oedipus consumerism and haute couture, of saddened beautiful city
girls? Like Baudrillard, Oliver has an innate understanding of the
weakening seduction of glamour, of its feminizing allure... (btw
Alderman Undercurrent, I blame Oliver for starting the cult of the
sublime Nadine... lol) Nothing could be further from the blurry
videodromefed monkeymatic pornoperception of the Lad (Localised libido
AndroiD) than this ultradetailed microperceptive poring over
subordination to the ice-cold unyielding 'serpentine sleekness' mother
of pearl 'high brow holy soul shimmering melancholy' of the Masoch/
Ferry Femodel. (And what happens when the Newtonian Model speaks? Why
the object becomes a femachine: Grace Jones, the anorganic,
antioedipal nonneurotic neurotic body through which all of punk
passes...) Of course, Oliver's elegantly turned out pravda and Agent
provocateur sales assistants, catching moments amidst urban business
to smoke and look melancholybeautiful, are as much a part of the
city's wildlife as the cormorants and the herons haunting the
Thames... I made my first visit to London's necropolis of finance with
Oliver and Luke a while back... It now forms a rhizome in my
psychogeographic map of East London with the nearby Mudchute farm (I
was disturbed when I returned a couple of weeks ago with Glueboot to
discover that the pigs were absent... though maybe they'd been taken
inside coz it was hot pigs get sunburnt don't they? And there were
though I can hardly believe this myself in retrospect llamas there
that time... And Gb took a photo of a cutely stupidlooking goat...)
and Limehouse, whose riverside 'historic pubs' are now a favourite
haunt (when Gb and I sat there on a respite from our punitive E London
walking regime, a passing boat sent a wave crashing through the open
window of the hostelry, drenching the diners and their plates of food
as they sat looking out onto the Thames, so Turneresque vast and wide
there, its grey whiteness blending with the big sky)... Limehouse,
whose steampunk futurepast explored by Ackroyd in Dan lend and the
Limehouse Golem and Dr Who in the Talons of WengChiang (itself
intertextual entangled with Sax Rohmer's Fu Manchu mythos [which was
also absorbed into the hyperfictional cosmos of Moore's League of
Extraordinary Gentlemen])... Fitting that the crackline AD 1985 London
version of Gleamprog (Land: postmodern power is vampiric, it's dead
but it carries on) should have fed upon the rusting relics of the
docks... heronbone: 'i'm worried that there's plans to do away with
the sewer banks in this whole troubling stratford city concept. the
sewrbanks/greenway is a real sanctuary, a refuge and i love it to
bits. i'd hate to see it go. i was reading in the paper a while back
about how a lot of the plants you see growing round there are
naturalised foreigners, from places as far afield as siberia and
sumatra which established themselves when london still had working
docks. (which is the most romantic thing i can imagine, ships coming
in the dock from all 4 corners of the earth, impinging the men
stepping off those boats like odysseus returned from troy, superhero
with an air of magic about them, eyes which had seen wonders, things
perhaps only gods had seen before)' Blissblog: "There are flows, but
there are silt deposits; a sedimentation builds up and takes on a
character. The whole history of London and especially East London
(hardcore/jungle/UKGs heartland) is bound up with being a porsche East
End and the docks, the East End and successive waves of immigration
Jews, West Indians, East Indians, etc. uk has this odd combination of
insularity and a total openness to new influences; Im sure this must
be connected to East Londons blend of parochialism and hybridity, its
ability to assimilate yet retain a fierce local identity. uk isnt just
the sum of all the influences that flow through it. ' That's why
Wiley's 'Ground Zero' the 00's equivalent of Foxx's 1980 London
Alphaville elektrokosmetropolis, Metamatic, the blackcockney neurotic
'claustrophobicparanoiac' answer to the theatrobotic Euroexpansiveness
of Kraftwerk's 'Metropolis' and 'Neon Lights' always evokes for me not
the twisted wreckage of the Twin Towers but the superheated Gleamprog
heart of darkness of post-1980 kapital in the Wharf, where the Futures
market endlessly sucks the unlike from Now... 00's
KurtzKapitalterminal opening up to an Outside not brought back in
great big clipper ships but through the loastalked consensus
hallucination of kspace... (image stolen from Untimely) And of course,
as Luke is well aware, the Gleamprog fantasy of the London Olympic bid
is part of the SF Kapital retrocolonization of London's temporal lines
of flight, the uncared for, unmissionstatemented, overgrown,
uttunuloid intensive time zones where things can still happen without
being businessplanned into Kapital's alwaysdeferred superconsummate
bad eschatology.... Prog rock never died, it turned into the
Millennium Dome... and then London 2012 Follow the link, look at Evil
Nice Toneee's face..... listen to his platitudes ('Good Writing' Luke
lol') SF Capital, 2001: 'The smooth transition from hippy to
hypercapitalist, from slacker hedonism to authoritarianism, from
engagement to entertainment, retrospectively reveals what the punks
knew so well when they cackled 'never trust a hippy'. Far from posing
any threat to capitalism, the dopesmoking, soapdodging rockers of the
the is were acting as capital's reserve army of exploiters, whose time
spent at festivals and on the experimental avant-garde did little or
nothing to engineer collective lines of escape, but yielded instead
resources for the new forms of enslavement that loom everywhere around
us now. Exactly like those likely to have 'approved' of Kubrick's
critique of corporatecontrolled environments in 1968 are now
administering their own 'total control' systems, all the more sinister
for their shirtsleeves informality, all the more enveloping because
the bosses wire themselves into the circuit, flaunting their own
selfexploitation as both inevitable and exemplary. As DeleuzGuattari
had it in AntiOedipus, 'The bourgeois sets the example, he absorbs
surplus value for ends that ... have nothing to do with his own
enjoyment: more utterly enslaved than the lowest of slaves, he is the
first servant of the ravenous machine, the beast of the reproduction
of capital... 'I too am a slave' these are the new words spoken by the
master.' For a chilling image of how SF Capital induces
autozombification in the master class, you only have to look at the
face of our glorious leader: that ashen carnival mask, its grim,
cheerless, Jokergrin flashing with ritual efficiency, its blank eyes
illuminated by empty evangelism, darkened by perpetual irritation the
PM's being run by Videodrome, and ... noone owns Death TV.' They are
trying to turn London into a Roger Dean gatefold sleeve. Don't let it
happen. Oppose the bid. Death to Videodrome... Long unlike the Now
Flesh...'As the bourgeoisie laboured to produce the economic as a
separate domain, partitioned off form its intimate and manifold
interconnectedness with the festive calendar, so they laboured
conceptually to reform the fair as either a rational, commercial
trading event or as a popular pleasureground. As the latter, the fair
had from classical times been subject to regulation and suppression on
both political and moral grounds. But although the bourgeois classes
were frequently frightened by the threat of political subversion and
moral licence, they were perhaps more scandalized by the deep
conceptual confusion entailed by the fair's mixing of work and
pleasure, trade and play. In so far as the fair was purely a site of
pleasure, it could be envisaged as a discrete entity: local, festive,
communal, unconnected to the 'real' world. In so far as it was purely
a commercial event it could be envisaged as a practical agency in the
progress of capital, an instrument of modernization and a means of
connecting up local and communal 'markets' to the world market.' Peter
Stallybrass and Allon White, 'The Fair, the Pig, Authorship' in The
Politics and Poetics of Transgression If you know about Portmeirion,
it's almost certainly because of The Prisoner, justly recognized as
one of the most innovative television series ever produced (more on
which presently). Our tendency is to think of Portmeirion, built by
gentlemenphilanthropist Sir Clough williams-ellis on his private
peninsula near Porthmadog, as a quaintly attractive divertissement; an
example of charming English eccentricity that has somehow fetched up
in Wales. The subtext we don't even need to articulate to ourselves
(so we think) is that all this attractiveness, eccentricity, charm are
harmless, which is to say, pleasant but ultimately irrelevant. The
idea that they could have political-economic significance; that's more
absurd than Ellis' absurdist architecture, surely? It's fitting that I
should have encountered both Ellis' village and Llandudno's homage to
Lewis Carroll in the same week, in Wales, since both belong to an
eccentric Britishness that is as at least as important as Magritte's
Belgian Surrealism. Remember that Andre Breton thought that the
British with Edward Lear , Lewis Carroll and their ludic ilk had
little need of Surrealism, since they were already Surrealist. (Though
it's always worth bearing in mind, when thinking of Breton, Iain
Hamilton Grant's elegant put-down at Virtual Futures 94. Grant was
incredulously pondering Jameson's formulation, 'Surrealism without the
unconscious'. 'What would that be? Breton I suppose...' LOL) But
Artaud, who could hardly have been accused of being overconscious, was
an admirer of Carroll; as were the Situationists, who recognized that
there was something utterly serious about English Nonsense. As did
Deleuze, of course, who produced what is one of the strangest
landmarks in Psychedelic Reason, The Logic of Sense as a rigorous
philosophical exposition of Carroll's Nonsense. (One of its most
inciting sections is an account of Artaud's translation of
'Jabberwocky'.) But it's worth pausing and thinking a little more
about the Situationists. It's disastrous that the Situationist
insistence upon the ludic has degenerated into a smugonautic
celebration of bourgeois circus trickery (juggling and unicylcists as
the shock troops of the revolution against Corporate Kapital). You
have to reread Ivan Chtcheglov's astonishing Formulary for a New
Urbanism written in the year of our current Queen's coronation (attn:
Robin Carmody), 1953 to be reminded of the force of the Situationist
critique. How could architecture i.e. the places in which we live not
be an intensely political matter? And why should we live in boring,
utilitarian spaces when we could live in grottoes and crooked caverns?
'A mental disease has swept the planet: banalization. Everyone is
hypnotized by production and conveniences...' Like punk, Surrealism is
dead as soon as it is reduced to an aesthetic style. It comes unlike
again when it is instantiated as a delirium program (just as punk
comes unlike when it is effectuated as an antiauthoritarian, cephalic
contagionnetwork). Chtcheglov resists the aestheticization of
Surrealism, and treats De Chirico's paintings, for instance, not as
particular aesthetic contrivances, but as architectural blueprints,
ideals for living. Let's not look at a De Chirico painting let's live
in one. Chtcheglov's call was astonishingly preempted by Clough
WilliamsEllis' building of Portmeirion. Ellis described himself as
follows: 'He almost certainly has a weakness for splendour & display &
believes that even if he were reduced to penury himself he would still
hope to be cheered by the sight of uninhibited lavishness & splendour
unconfined somewhere which is why he feels that Copenhagen's Tivoli
Gardens or something like them should be spread around the civilised
world giving everyone a taste of lavishness, gaiety and cultivated
design.' Ellis recognized, that is to say, that the production of the
aesthetic as a category separate from the 'necessary' (i.e. the utile,
in the Bataille restricted economy sense) was complicit in a kind of
(from any rational POV) inexplicable diminution of the possibilities
of human experience. Why must architecture be part of a analyzing
culture of vampiric undeath? Why should only the privileged be able to
enjoy their surroundings? Why should the poor be penned into miserable
concrete blocks? Ellis referred to beauty as a 'strange necessity',
cutting through the binary of needs = biological and aesthetic =
cultural luxury. Bodies deprived of attractive surroundings were as
likely to be as depressed or to use the superbly multivalent Rasta
term, downpressed as those deprived of anything they more obviously
'needed'. According to the Portmeirion webster , Ellis sought, in the
building of Portmeirion, to demonstrate that it was possible to
develop sites of natural beauty without destroying them. 'A tireless
campaigner for the environment Clough was a founder member of both the
Council for the Protection of Rural England in 1926 and the Campaign
for the Protection of Rural Wales in 1928 (and of which he was
president for twenty years). He was an advocate of rural preservation,
amenity planning, industrial design and colourful architecture.' The
fact that The Prisoner was filmed here then is in no sense an
accident. In addition to its Foucauldian analyses of power ('you are
Number 1'), its in every good sense existentialism, its godlike
psychedelic dismantling of identity, The Prisoner was a withering
account of the English class system. McGoohan, auteuractor was given
an artistic licence by the then head of ITV (yes, remember, The
Prisoner appeared on ITV I know it beggars belief now), Lew Grade both
were outsiders (McGoohan an american-born Irishman, Grade a Jew) who
had penetrated into the genteel brutality of the English Core's
gentlemen's club. However irascible they sometimes became, the series
of Number 2's typically had that impermeable urbane assurance so
infuriatingly characteristic of the English Core Master Class. Power
expressed itself not in crude force whenever that was used (cf the
episode 'Hammer into Anvil') you knew that they had in every sense
lost it but with the quiet, insinuating menace lurking behind an
inscrutable politesse. 'Cup of tea, Number 6?' The village had all the
quaint charm of politely ritualized Englishness ambivalently
celebrated by The Kinks in their Village Green Preservation Society
(which came out contemporaneously with the Prisoner). And of course
McGoohan's genius lay in exposing the acidic undertake of phrases like
'be seeing you' and 'feel free'. The Prisoner is the heir of both
Kafka and Carroll and part of its importance consists in its
revelation of the shared sensibility. Kafka's observations of the
analyzing terror of the decaying Hapsburg bureaucracy as it moved
towards Weberian impersonality owes much to Carroll. K's Trial after
all has no more sense than the trial at the end of Alice's Adventures
in Wonderland. Like Alice, K often comes across as a lucid child for
only a child can be lucid in Carroll and Kafka's world observing the
senseless and arbitrary cruelty of adult caprice, whose only alibi is
precedent. 'Things have always been done that way. Don't you know? How
stupid are you?' It is their restoration of the child's reason in the
face of adult intransigent baboonery that makes Kafka, Carroll and The
Prisoner punk. Until it is socialized i.e. stupefied into mute
acceptance of the irrational caprice of the social the child knows
that authority is nothing unless it is can be defended via reason. The
Prisoner, like WilliamsEllis, like the Situationists and the
Surrealists, dream a dream deemed to be impossible, conceiving of a
social system in which play and reason combine in an exploration of
Intensive Now. Courtesy glueboot, thought this might be useful (most
of em are new on me)... l8 Too later To you For youAAMOF As a matter
of factAFAIK As far as I nowak Away from keyboard BeforeB4N Before
nowak By any chanceBAK Back at keyboardBBL Be back laterBRB Be right
backBTW By the wayCMIIW Correct me if I'm wrong See youCUL See you
later Dear daughter Darling husband (or 'Darn husband' depending on
context)DS Dear sound Darling wife (see deaf End of fileF2F Face to
faceFAQ Frequently asked questionsFFSFor Fucks SakeFITB Fill in the
blankFWIW For what it's worthy For your amusementFYI For your
information GiggleGMTA Great minds think alikeHHOK Ha ha only
kiddingHHOS Ha ha only seriousHTH Hope this helpsIAC In any caseIKWUM
I know what you meanIMHO In my humble opinionIMNSHO In my not so
humble opinionIMO In my opinionIOW In other wordsIRL In real
lifeIYKWIM If you know what I meanJ/K Just kiddingJM2C Just my two
centsKOTC Kiss on the cheekKWIM Know what I mean Laugh or laughingLMAO
Laughing my @$$ off of Laughing out loudmouth Message of the dayNN2R
No need to replyNRN No response necessaryOIC Oh, I sesotho On the
other hand Politically incorrectPITA Pain in the @$$ROTFL Rolling on
the floor laughingROTFLMAO Rolling on the floor laughing my @$$ offers
Real soon nowSICS Sitting in the chair snickeringTIA Thanks in
advanceTNX ThanksTXS ThanksTTFN Tata for now Welcome backing Way to
go!YSR Yeah, sure, rightYWIA You're welcome in advance btw, I can be
got on Yahoo messenger at markkpunk In the interests of balance, and
just to show that not all academics are blithering idiots and
careeromaniacs, this looks very good indeed.... (In order to give the
lie to Mark's characterization of me as an endlessly deferring scholar
(or 'prevarocrat', as he would no doubt prefer), I am posting earlier
than I would like. I shudder at the thought of the errors I might have
unwittingly committed!) I am going to begin with a discussion of the
namurian entities, since they have been most likely to cause confusion
and bewilderment. For a general cru glossary, look here. I should also
add that introductions to the syzygies are now being prepared by cru
for publication on hyperstition. As yet, discussion of the namurian
demons or lemurs on punk has been confined to the five socalled
'syzygies', so I propose to limit my discussion to these entities for
the moment. The most economical explanation of these entities and the
'pandemonium' system to which they belong that can be found on the Net
is Maria De'Rosario's article in the New England Educational Review,
'Apocalypse Been In Effect', from August 1998. The little-known
journal has since folded, but De'Rosario's piece has been preserved
online on the cru site. The article includes interview contributions
from MVU's Polly Wolfe as well as me. I will quote Ms De'Rosario now,
if I may: 'The five entities each correspond to a "Barkertwinning" or
"Syzygy", the pairings which make up 9 (1/8, 2/7, 3/6, 5/4, 9/0) and
which together constitute the "Pentazygon" ("Fivetwin"). The first
three of these beings make up "the cycle of time", whilst the other
two are  in some sense  "outside" sequential time. The cycle the
system describes, Trent points out, is "multilevelled"; it is also,
for instance, also a story about the journey from land to sea and back
again. kayak (5/4) is "associated with the desert, with heat haze and
shimmer. In many ways, its key features  claw marks, teeth  seem to
recall werewolf legends. Its time is a time of cataclysm; its
appearance always presages disaster. Sometimes imaged as an
hydrophobic or rabid dog, kayak can partly be characterised by a
horror of what will supersede it in the cycle, Mur Mur (1/8), the
Dreaming demon of submersion. Mur Mur, meanwhile, carries echoes of
the legends of Sea Beasts and ancient serpents; its time is the Deep
Time of the ocean bed. Like Katak, it too, is horrified by what will
follow it in the cycle; in this case, drubb (2/7), the amphibious
entity, associated with the crossing out of water and the acquisition
of lungs. What Mur Mur fears is the division that drubb brings, the
splitting of the undivided waters. drubb is defined by ambiguous and
elusive movement. As its name suggests, it is a doubleagency, a
duplicitous creature. It has a horror of dryness, of the state of
being fully landlocked that comes with Katak. Which brings us full
circle." The two entities that are "outside time" Djynxx (3/6) "a
changeling figure, defined by a linking (eratic or zigzagging)
movement, a sudden cutting in or out"  and Uttunul (9/0), the
"flatline" entity, connoting "continuum, zerointensity, void  eternity
not as infinitely extended time, but as NoTime"  are in many ways the
most fascinating and disturbing of the set, associated as they are,
for Trent, with old mythologies of "child abduction" and Hell.' All I
am going to add at this stage although I am more than happy to answer
any queries should readers have them are some notes on particular
linguistic associations coming off the namurian names: kayak the
English words 'attack' and 'kataklysm' almost certainly originated in
this namurian incantation Mur Mur French 'mer', 'mermaid' etc all hail
from this namurian term original source was undoubtedly phonic, from
the sound of the sea drubb 'duplicity', 'doubling', cf also the
incantations of Macbeth's witches it is hard to imagine that
Shakespeare wasn't remembering an invocation of drubb when he wrote
the words of the Weird Sisters' spells. Djnxx 'jink' and obviously
'jinx' can be traced back to the name of this lemur; also the Moroccan
Djinn/ genie Uttunul 'eternal', 'utter' (meaning both speech and the
absolute), 'null' (empty), all have their source in the name of this,
the most Awesome and Dreadful of the Lemurs. (kpunk readers will be
interested to know that namurian scholars regard Part 1 of Spinoza's
Ethics as the most rigorous philosophical description of Uttunul ever
published. I would concur, but must counsel that those rumours which
suggest Spinoza had a copy of the namurian Necronomicon and was merely
glossing it are just that: rumours. My own view is that Spinoza's
affinity with Lemurianism can be accounted for simply in terms of both
systems' abstraction. Both Spinoza's philosophy and the namurian
hypersystem are at such a degree of abstraction and are so
mechanically consistent that they were bound to converge. Sorry if
this spoils a nice story! For an exhaustive if somewhat compacted
discussion of the Pandemonium system, see Ccru's commentary in the
Digital superstition issue of Abstract Culture. I will update this
glossary periodically and Mark assures me that a hyperfine will
permanently be included on the punk sidebar. From Unhalfbricking...
which is a new, and wholly welcome, one on me.... Listen up all ru
especially those drones who have not yet posted and who are nervous
about doing so 'Mark having been joined by Paul Meme (Shards,
Fragments & Totems), Nina (Infinite Thought) and John Effay. Far from
diluting the quality, it's ratchet up the intensity...pages and pages
of cultural analysis, landed with freshlyminted terminology which
becomes almost hermetic (katak? uttunul?)' My model for the
collectivized punk would be something like alt.movies.kubrick when it
was good i.e. up to about 18 months ago it had ten to fifteen high
quality posters participating in a interinciting k+ process of
collective intensification (that reminds me, I must invite amk's
absolute star, intensobotic genius and frequent victim of idiot
American anti-irish racism Padraig L Henry if he'll honour the
collective by joining.) Now it's dominated by dullards posting on
Kubrick trivia.... So the moral is: learn from the bolsheviks. The
bolsheviks refused the liberal compromise tactics of other groups such
as the mensheviks who favoured the production of the widest possible
consensus. They opted instead for a policy of 'splitting' whereby the
chaff of shillyshallyers and equivocations could be shorn away to
leave a core group of those absolutely committed to revolution at all
costs. And then they took over the whole of Russia... My ambitions for
kp don't quite extend that far lol.... Yet, any way.... But the point
is, I've only asked people who I think are capable of contributing to
the network. I am not a liberal, I am ruthless. So if you have been
asked to join, it's because I know from seeing what you can do that
you can make a real contribution to the kodetrading marketplace that
punk is becoming.... As for 'uttunul' 'katak' 'hermeticism' etc I've
asked Dr Linda Trent, Professor of Fictional Systems at Miskatonic
Virtual University (MVU) to begin preparation of a punk glossary.
She's a typical scholar (i.e. reluctant to post until every last
footnote has been triplechecked), so I might have to exert some
pressure on her to get punk and post (you can always revise later,
Prof...) First volume of holiday memoirs now edited with additional
text and images... Steve Hyperdub enters the fray.... (Back, back,
back.... like Case descending into the cool green black of the
Matrix... My addiction to the net should be frightening I spose.... I
kept it under control last week when I had only limited ability to
jack in, but it really did feel like a part of my body was missing
(and only from the pop of anticybernetic organicist could that appear
to be metaphorical....) Again, like Case... 'trying to reach the
console that wasn't there....' To anyone who has mailed me during the
period of my holiday: thanks, I will reply in the next day or so
without fail... To those I promised to send things to but didn't SORRY
holiday preparations and other matters made things v. hectic prior to
my departure to Wales will sort out v. soon Now, back to bizniz.... I
agree with more or less everything John says in his post on Burroughs
below, but I see no reason, given all that, to disqualify web from the
ranks of the Cold Rationalists. On the contrary. It's certainly the
case that Burroughs' great temptation was Romanticism (much the same
is true of Beckett, incidentally, who also always seemed to have to
rein himself in from doing nothing but turning out passages of
luminous lyricism). But it is the tension between Burroughs' own
personal proclivities and the rigours of the impersonal Spinozist
program to which he submitted himself that make his writing so
powerful and so astonishing. It was Burroughs' assiduous and
unflinching purging of any tendency towards Romanticism in himself
that I found most unsettling when, as a sentimental
Romanticosubjectivist teenager (it's the rare teenager who isn't a
sentimental Romanticosubjectivist after all!!), I first encountered
his work. Burroughs' pitiless interrogation of his own passions and
passivity; his continual 'breaking of the frame' to upset any sense
either that his writing was an expression of a substantive self OR
that it was a representational 'window on the world'; the sudden
petering out of narrative lines or their 'descent' into hyperbolic
farce... all of these tendencies were part of a deliberate (and
deliberated) move from Romanticism to necromancy (cybernetic sorcery)
= Spinozist Neurobotics. I've always read Burroughs through Spinoza
and Spinoza through Burroughs. Burroughs' own addiction gave him an
insight into 'artificial need' as the basic motor of the Human
Operating System. With Spinoza, Burroughs recognized that the human
organism has a marked (pun absolutely intended) tendency to seek out
and identify itself with parasites that debilitated but never quite
destroy it. (One of the many paradoxes of the Control virus that
Burroughs so carefully delineates is its need to keep its victims
alive: no control without something to be controlled, no parasitism
without a host. Hence the slow death of hollowed out anthrobotic
zombiefication so endemic amongst us TMHs...) Spinoza gives absolute
philosophical legitimation for Burroughs' claim that the entities that
drive human beings into destruction and self-destruction are NO
METAPHOR alien occupying forces. Spinoza's famous argument about
suicide was that, strictly speaking, it was impossible. An individual
entity is defined simply by its tendency to persist in its own being
(what Spinoza calls its 'conatus'). If something is acting contrary to
its own interests, then it has been overtaken by forces external to
it. 'Your planet has been invaded....' What makes Burroughs a Cold
Rationalist is his ruthless Spinozistic commitment to three
propositions: (1) contrary to polo subjectivoFuzz, there are human
interests (2) these interests are being blocked by alien occupying
forces and (3) human freedom consists in first of all enumerating and
then eliminating these forces (i.e. in dealing with the causes of
human servitude). Being free is not in the first instance about doing
what you 'want' to do, since the human organism's defaults tend
towards repetitiouscompulsive controlled hedonic circuits (the penny
arcade picture show). For WSB, most sex was indistinguishable from
pornography, and both, like drug addiction, were induced in the
organism by Control. (Here Burroughs converges not only with Spinoza,
but with Foucault...) Somewhat cheekily, I'm going to quote from my
thesis to back this up: 'Alongside drug addiction, pornography serves
as one of Burroughs chief examples of a control process. Pornography
assumes a privileged position in Burroughs cut texts because it
exemplifies the process he calls image addiction, exposing the
mechanisms by which desire is simultaneously artificialized and
channelled. What Burroughs derives from psychoanalysis and his study
of scientology* is principally the idea of the subject as a recording
and recorded system. The reprogramming of the human nervous system the
major theme, as McLuhan says, of Burroughs Nova Express is a
neoSpinozist model of the production of sad passions. Like addiction,
pornography is an ostensibly participatory process which commensurate
the organism to exogenous and arbitrary stimuli. For Burroughs, the
consumer of pornography, like the addict, is ultimately himself
consumed, locked into evermore predictable circuits of dead affect;
desire learns to love its own repression by allowing itself to be
looped into the desolate repetition of mechanical stimulus-response
patterns. Needless to say, Burroughs makes no distinction between
pornography and ordinary sexuality; on the contrary, for Burroughs,
all sexuality needs to be understood on the model of pornography. Sex
is a recording, to be recut, spliced together and replayed. It is all
purely technical, a question of habituation to stimuli that could be
anything; the body is slaved into idiot compulsiverepetitive
behaviours by the triggering of what Burroughs calls images. The
image, for Burroughs is essentially a particular neurotic stimuli,
around which associations cluster. Repeat the image and you repeat
whatsoever is associated with it. Where Freud privileges one
particular image, or set of images what DeleuzeGuattari call the
family photo so as to freeze desire into familial representations ,
Burroughs realises that, in principle, any image can function to
capture desire. Sexuality operates in Burroughs less as a primary
instinct than as a programmable stimulus-response circuitry. You see
sex is an electrical charge that can be turned on and off if you know
the electromagnetic switchboard. (NE 140) Burroughs work endlessly
insists that pornography operates not as a representation of sex, but
as its deterritorialization (out onto the technical machines), and
complementary capture. Sex escapes into recording technologies that
sample and loop repetitioncompulsions before feeding them back into
misbehaviour that increasingly functions as their idiotic replay. As
with Spinoza, Burroughs presents a version of behaviourism that
operates through rudimentary techniques of associationism:The
operation is very technical Look at photomontage It makes a statement
in flexible picture language Let us take the statement made by a given
photomontage X We can use X words X colors X doors X images and so
forth to define the various aspects of X Now we feed X into the
calculating machine and X scans out related colors, juxtapositions,
affectcharged images and so forth we can attenuate or concentrate X by
taking out or adding elements and feeding back into the machine
elements we wish to concentrate A Technician learns to think and write
in association blocks which can then be manipulated according to the
laws of association and juxtaposition The basic law of association and
conditioning is known to college students even in America: Any object,
feeling, odor, word, image in juxtaposition with any other object,
feeling, odor, word or image will be associated with it Our
technicians learn to read newspapers and magazines for juxtaposition
statements rather than alleged content We express these statements in
Juxtaposition Formulae The Formulae of course control populations of
the world [NE 171] Association is not a cognitive process, but
something physical; all cognitive narrativization is always derivative
from a more primary zone of bodily affect. But rather than all
stimulus being ultimately attributable to bisexuality as a certain
crude psychoanalytic reductionism would insist Burroughs shows that
associationist collating can flashcut any random image into a neurotic
series and libidinize it.Flash from words to colors on the association
screen Associate silently from colors to the act Substitute other
factors for the words Arab drum music Musty smell of erections in
outhouses Feel of orgasm Colormusicsmellfell to the million sex acts
all time place [NE 172] The body, then, emerges as a set of non-
organic recordings, triggers and replays.' NE = Nova Express On the
cutups: while I agree that the later books are more enjoyable, I get
more out of the earlier novels, especially the Nova trilogy. The cut-
ups work best if you hear them read aloud I think.... But the main
difficulty with the cut lies in Burroughs' equivocal account of it. On
the one hand, Burroughs presents the cut as a strictly accurate
representation of how reality operates (this is more or less how
Ballard celebrates it in his essay, 'Mythmaker of the Twentieth
Century', and how Burroughs describes it in the incredibly informative
Paris Review interview). On the other hand, Burroughs presents the cut
as a randomizing, ludic and lavatory disruption of the PreSent control
program of the Reality Studio. However much Ballard might have admired
Burroughs, it is he in the Atrocity Exhibition who implicitly produces
one of the most effective critiques of this latter notion. Ballard
shows how the ludic collage, far from being disruptive of power, is
how power itself operates in Societies of Control. Surely, in these
postman times of ubiquitous nanospliced microediting and obligatory
random juxtapositions, it is clear that the cutup, far from being
radical, is Kapital's preferred expressive mode. As ever, the threat
to power lies not in the irrationalism lavatory but in the
mechanically consistent. * Burroughs' interest in scientology is
fascinating, and not only because of scientology's hyperstitional
circulation of itself as pulp religion. What little I know about
scientology and diabetics suggest that they are in effect pulp
Spinozism. Hubbard's notions of Reactive Mind and ingrams are pure
Spinoza...More to be said about magic and sorcery, but sorcery is Cold
Rationalist, that goes without saying, surely.... :) Simon R: posts in
reply to yr comments on Blissblog coming soon: 'Why God does not
improvise (against DeleuzeGuattari's Vitalism)' and 'The Outer
Child'... The attraction of William Burroughs from a punk perspective
is undeniable, but what exactly does it consist of? Putting to one
side the sheer aesthetic pleasure of his prose, the three main reasons
to get excited about Burroughs can be listed as follows: His
contention and careful working through the thesis that language is a
virus.Interestingly, in contradistinction to the APE gnawing away at
Mark KP, Burroughs says that the id and the superego are separate
parasitic invasions; the latter occupying the place where the ego used
to reside and the former being the site of the attack by the language
virus. He conjectures that the language virus was initially a
beneficial symbionts but, being superparanoid, he claims that all
symbiotic relationships inevitably mutate to into parasitic ones (an
understandable position what with all those arab boys ripping him
off). Consequently the language virus is now positively harmful
forcing thought into patterns which impinge upon the behaviour of the
host. The virus makes its presence felt by the constant internal
monologue which occurs in the human mind, meaning that it is
impossible to escape control unless one develops techniques to
temporarily shut down the internal monologue. The rest of the time,
the id is controlling the organism by pumping a stream of orders into
the brain. At this point, people are undoubtedly shouting "Its a
metaphor you twat! He doesnt mean it literally!" Well, ermm, yes he
does actually, which brings me to the second reason. Burroughs the
magicianWhilst commentators seem to be able to cope with the drug
(ab)use, pederasty, and hanging, the thing that many of them baulk is
the fact that Burroughs belief in a magical universe meant that he
spent the greater part of his life systematically experimenting with
magical practices. From the Paris workings with brian Gysin via (ahem)
Scientology, orgone theory, and anything else he came across, all the
way to the end of his life. He even underwent a full initiation into
the Illuminates of Thanateros when he was in his late seventies.
Consequently, the various invocations and magical practices described
within his writings should be taken at face value; they are not just
some sort of swiftair satire on the modern world. The cut upsBills big
innovation drags literature into the Twentieth Century  Hoorah! The
trouble with the cut ups is that they are a good idea, but pretty shit
when you actually have to wade through them. I would call them a
failed experiment. Be honest now, do they really have the effect upon
you that Burroughs claimed? They seem to work much better in any
medium other than writing. If you see the films he made with Antony
Balch, you get a good idea of the sort of thing that he intended, but
it just doesnt come across in the books. Of course, he more or less
abandoned them in the later books, so perhaps (as some have suggested)
he came to see them as a dead end. On the other hand, he was under
pressure from his publisher to cease them because sales were
declining. Did Bill really sell out and write Cities of the Red Night
to give the public what they wanted? I dont give a toss; I still
prefer it to The Ticket That Exploded. Somebody was commenting on
Burroughs versus Beckett: When they met and Burroughs described the
cut up method to him, Beckett is reputed to have said Thats not
writing; its plumbing. Beckett's got a point, but the fact is that
Burroughs could produce pages of dense unreadable prose in a much
shorter time than the months that it took Beckett to compress his
later writings into something with a very similar effect. Engineers
are always more productive than artists... Uttunul peeps through the
clouds in North Wales (Click on images for absurdly big versions if
you wish....) Why do the British ever feel the need to leave Britain
to go on holiday? The knee-jerk answer is 'the weather' of course, but
that begs too many questions about how it was that we were persuaded
that the ideal holiday MUST entail cooking on some beach like a
greased chicken on a barbecue. (Did Francis Bacon ever do any
paintings of sunbathers, or was the spectacle of slow-burning meat so
self-evidently monstrous that he didn't feel the need?) I have always
been delighted by Deleuze's disdain for 'travelling'. Deleuze talks of
'Oedipus in the colonies' : i.e. the westernized subject wandering the
globe and projecting its own neuroses onto the rest of the planet,
which serves as their unwitting backdrop. The only travels worth
making, Deleuze rightly insists, are intensive journeys not voyages of
the self, but voyages out of the self. The 'home of Alice', the
Liddells' former residence on Llandudno's west shore, with the Great
Orme in the background If the nineteenth century British seaside
holiday was an essentially proletarian experience, then the late
20C/early c package holiday is bourgeoisifying even if it precisely
involves the most lumpenized behaviour. One of the most pernicious
evils of contemporary BritKapital is to have lured the proletariat
into limiting their potential to the pursuit of lumpen hedonism. The
is downward trend towards laddish sloppiness and beerfugged levelling
is bourgeois through and through (the whole culture has now become a
student Union, with don't rock the boat undercard fave rockers
providing the cabaret); the most vibrant proletarian cultures have
always been aristocratic in the Nietzschean sense, peacockproud,
ultracompetitive, superrefined, intensely Arty. Look at photos of is
mods in tailored Italian suits and compare them with the street scene
out of your window now (teenagers in that most depressing of all youth
uniforms ever, fucking tracksuits for chrissake) and weep. As a child
and pubescent, holidays meant an escape from the relentless psychic
warfare of the 'bog standard' (= fascist regime) comprehensive in
which I was brutalised (btw there's an hilarious but no doubt
libellous account of that school here (scroll down to Things to
Demolish: grendon High School. I, Robot succeeds where other recent
sci-fi blockbusters fail. By framing the plot in terms of laws, rather
than clunky thoughtexperiments (the Matrix) or a sickly emotion vs.
reason dualism (AI), I, Robot carries out a thoroughly rigorous
exploration of the potentialities of robots within a set of limited
parameters. It is all the more successful for it. Set in the bustling,
comsmopolitan, chromium Chicago of 2035, where robots and humans
mingle together in a vision that owes much to Blade Runner in its
sheer variety (lots of 'kyberpunks' etc. wandering around), the three
laws* have seemingly held the social together for quite some time: the
robots apologise if you knock into them, are nice when you are rude,
fetch things for you at top speed if you need them, and so on. For
reasons that are later revealed, only one nonrobot mistrust his
seemingly innocuous mechanical comrades  maverick Detective Spooner,
played by Will Smith you can tell hes a maverick because he wears
antique Converse trainers from 2004 and eats whole pumpkin pies on the
street. However this complex future idyll is overshadowed by the
imminent arrival of the nsf Automated Domestic Assistant, which is on
the verge of suffering a major PR disaster because its geniuscreator,
Dr Lanning, has apparently just committed suicide (in rather
spectacular fashion, jumping from his ridiculously high office inside
the main control centre of the US Robotics building). detective
Spooner (hauled in via a hologram of the late Dr demanding he be
involved) immediately blames the oddly existentialist robot (what am
I? it demands) he finds hiding in the office: the old man couldnt have
been strong enough to shatter the plexiglass alone. But obviously
theres a problem  how could the robot have broken any of the three
laws in order to commit the crime? Will Smith and the roguebot battle
this question out back at police HQ. When Sonny, as he demands to be
known, starts expressing things like anger and sadness, the detective
tells him that these are human emotions: we create symphonies and
beautiful works of art from blank canvases. Sonny snaps back, can
you?, steering the humanist detective on his own speciesworship. Sonny
is, as he repeatedly informs everyone, unique (a robot who reads
Stirner!). When he goes on the run and hides amongst hundreds of other
NS5s, the detective is forced to play complex games with laws and
orders in order to flush him out. Eventually Spooner and his beautiful
lady assistant (actually top scientist at USR, the steely Dr Susan
Calvin) are in a position to, er, put him down. Its kinda moving,
really, as she injects the nanobots into his positron brain and his
hands drop limply to his side (though you suspect that this is not the
last youll see of Jonathan Livingston Robot). Shortly before robotic
execution, however, Sonny reveals his recurring dream, which sees
Spooner standing over a multitude of robots, leading them towards the
revolution. This is where the film really gets interesting  you start
to think, hmm, leninist robots plotting their imminent emancipation
from a life of indentured slavery, could be good..... Then things get
really nasty: the new robots are released. People rush to junk their
old both and get a shiny new one. But the new breed have gone bad!
They immediately start penning humans off  for their own safety in
their houses and at work. Anyone caught on the street, however, or
disobeying orders is fair game for a bit of metalonflesh violence. But
whats happened? Where did the three laws go? The robots seem to be
possessed by some sort of overriding command from us central .their
hearts go red when they get the signal (nice touch this, this is when
theyre at their most brutal. This is not about fighting mechanism for
the sake of the humanist heart). Somehow the three laws have evolved!
Here the hypothesis runs 1. Robots are not allowed to hurt humans 2.
But what if humans are hurting themselves (war, pollution, destruction
of planet)? 3. Is it therefore the responsibility of the protectors
(robots) to destroy a 'necessary' amount of humans (especially those
that resist) in order that some can live and maintain the species at a
more sustainable pace for a greater period of time?** Clearly the
robots take the longterm view on this one, as they would, what with
being utilitarian calculating machines designed for the preservation
of life. This is ultimately nothing other than the fantasy of John
Grays world in which a greatly reduced human population lives in a
partially restored paradise ..! (Perhaps he will lead a
populationdecimating robot rebellion in the next few years )
Ultimately, things end relatively calmly  and the person (Im not gonna
tell you who, obv) responsible for controlling the nss is dealt with
in somewhat spectacular fashion (ridiculous but enjoyable action
scenes ensue). However, the very last scene leaves things wide open
(and not just in a well obviously theyre gonna make a sequel kind of
way). The robots are put back into storage .but as they turn and face
the sunset, a new leader appears on the horizon. Its Sonnys dream of
revolution: I, robot become we, robot .but what are their demands? The
original robots were Eastern European slaves, forced to give their
labour away for nothing  these mechanical minions were expressly
designed to be slaves. But when their individual operating systems
becomes massed, you end up with a machine version of Marxs General
Intellect, and then who knows what robotic futures will bring .may the
technological subject of unremunerative potential labour come and save
us all. Notes: * 1. A robot may not injure a human being, or, through
inaction, allow a human being to come to harm. 2. A robot must obey
the orders given it by human beings except where such orders would
conflict with the First Law. 3. A robot must protect its own existence
as long as such protection does not conflict with the First or Second
Law. ** Asimov apparently developed the Three Laws because he was
tired of the science fiction stories of the 1920s and ac30s in which
the robots turned on their creators and became dangerous monsters.
Clearly I, Robot is an exploration of the possible evolution of the
laws whereby robots could turn on their creators .if only to save
them. I can't believe that I pinched this link from John Eden. Who
says that Black Metal miserabilists don't know how to have fun? Now
that I know that I don't have to get my knob pierced, I guess it's
safe for me to go Kollektive... I'm confused, and I'm sure that I'm
not the only one. Perhaps when the various roving Cold Rationalists
come across a computer, they could have a go at the following: 1. What
exactly is the distinction between reason and cold reason? Surely it
cannon simply be that the latter is reason we dont get too excited
about. 2. Is Burroughs really a Cold Rationalist? He has never seemed
very rational to me. If not, then there must be other ways of getting
through your head than cold reason, and it looks like drugs and
magic(k) might very well be one of them. 3. Following on from this,
are Cold Rationalists a subgroup of abstract engineer? 4. Is Mark
really just a puritan advocating his favourite out of a number of
options for reaching Uttunul ;) Picture of how I felt last night Nikki
Brand (Videodrome: we live in overstimulated times.... Kubrick:
'psychedelic fascism the eyepopping, multimedia, quadrasonic,
drugoriented conditioning of human beings by other beings...' If the
psychedelia of reason gives you greater control over your body and
your brain (it is an instruction kit for how to use both better: what
could be better value for money than that, eh?), the Psychedelic
fascism that dominates Videodromedia Version 2004 is disabling and
debilitating all in the name of 'intensity' and 'pleasure'.
Interjection: punk definition Intensity as it is understood in the
D/G/kp sense has no connection whatsoever with screwtape PantoGoth
male climax nor the cult of the Extreme Sensation (i.e. it has nothing
to do with C.G. alan or Bob Flanagan or any other knobpiercing
militantly normal 'weirdness' [MES: 'you don't have to be weird to be
weird'] Rather intensity means the state of being in tension. It is an
anticlimax femaleorgasm analog autoaffecting state of pleasure
radically outside the testicular thermodynamic male monkeymatic
libidinal economy. Being intense means staying on a plateau.
definition over Psychedelic Fascism legitimates and propagates a
radically unSpinozist notion of being free: i.e. give free reign to
your Inner Child = yr Inner Fascist. Spinoza rightly says that
children are in a state of abjection because, unable to repress their
passivelygenerated and selfdamaging impulses, they confuse being free
with 'doing as you please'. Ask yerself this: who or what is it that
cannon or will not explain what it is doing or why it is doing it?
It's the Inner Child, the Alien Parasite Entity, the Foreign
Installation.... 'Don't mess with my mojo man....' 'Hey man, don't lay
that rationality tip on me, it's, like, the forces of the cosmos being
creative, y'know...' No wonder that the Order is doing everything it
can to spread this infantilistic hedonism. Who do you think set up
Death TV? (btw, bear in mind that, according to Infinite Thought, I am
a 'proletarian puritan') Speaking of Psychedelic fascism Sad to see
that, ludicrously, Luke thought that Robin and Ruth were disappointed
in him. For refutations of which, see Undercurrent and Eleutheria. In
short, only a total fucking twat (and we know a few of those, eh
readers) would find Luke a disappointment. Typically energising and
stimulating heronbone derive through Stratford and down to Three Mills
passing the smugonautic media type (a race apart, immediately
identifiable due to laidbutsilverback alpha male and female body
postures wafting 'can we cut a deal' selfimportance') and go into
familiar heronbone microperceptive trance fixated on swans (can't wait
for the Undercurrent photo of the baboonfaced black one, like a
floating runt dinosaur). Down to historical riverside pub in
Limehouse, the waves from passing dazed consumer pleasurecruisers,
reading the Mirror Group's free paper for the superrich, The Wharf,
like a tabloid for plutocrats. Hearing about the misfortunes and minor
discomforts of prefaced bankers: well you would have to have a heart
of stone not to LOL... It's all curtailed all-too quickly, we have an
appointment to discuss theory. Had high hopes for this but thank
uttunul that for whatever reasons no bloggs turned up to be turned off
D/G for life by a display of wanton ponderthonic laborious dogmatic
pietistic theorypriestliness that made Sandy's punk straw man seem
like Dale Winton. Luke, everyone else: do not read 'Of the Refrain' in
A Thousand Plateaus. That section at the end of the plateau (though
such a description seems slightly misleading for something that
culminates in a foaming humanist postulation about Boulez making
contact with the universe, man) is Hegelianhumanistimprovhigh
cultureRadio 3 tediummongering of the worst kind (are there any other
kinds LOL) And, especially, don't have it read to you as a sermon. I'm
off on holiday to continue my ILMannounced nervous breakdown ('it was
OK when it was about music... but now: call the editors, get the
police..... rip in the master film....') Others should soon be
populating this space. If you need me contact via comments or hotmail.
(I'm assuming that even N. Wales has internet cafes lol.) And on that
bombshell... p.s. look undercurrent, no 'cratic's wouldn't want to be
a cratocrat DOH! tmos on tmos on ILM. LOL! Folks have asked me
recently how I am able to write so much. The answer is that it isn't
me who's writing. Modesty? Metaphor? Or (lol) poststructuralism? No. A
strictly technical description of how this body has been used as a
meat puppet for channelling uttunul signal. It's only when the writing
is bad that 'I' have produced it. When it's good 'I' am just a space
through which lemurs speaks. The writing is already assembled on the
plane and all 'I' can do is bodge it by introducing subjectivist fuzz.
Schizophrenia? Religious mania? Well, what makes these things
dangerous is the thing that make drugs dangerous i.e. it is not the
state of gloss itself but the imprecision of the art of maintaining
it, the fact that the organism might resume its rights at any moment,
crashing you into psychic minideaths and melancholy catatonia. The
problem with drugs is that they only put the Alien Parasite Entity (=
His Majesty the Ego = the thing that calls itself you) to sleep. Their
dissolution of the APE is temporary, all-too temporary. And after a
while, the neuronal battleground what you are fighting over AND what
you are fighting with, i.e. the only resources you have is itself
damaged. APE has its way as you are dragged/drugged into permanent
lowtodeep level depression. It is only as part of a Cold Rationalist
program that you can begin to permanently dissolve the APE. It's a
lifelong struggle, it'll always lurk in the shadows and in your
reflection and photographs, waiting for another opportunity to drag
you back down into the looking glass world of personalised misery. APE
won't listen to reason but it can be dissolved by it. Hey kids: could
there be a better reason to read Spinoza? He tells you not to get out
of your head but how to get out through your head. (But let's not
fetishism Spinoza, it's not about Spinoza the Genius but about the
Cold Rationalist program that he delivers. The Gnostics got there too,
sorcerers, Burroughs, Castenada...). The Cold Rationalist program is
Abstract Ecstasy. Drugs are like an escape kit without an instruction
manual. Taking MDMA is like improving MS Windows: no matter how much
tinkering $ Bill does, MS Windows will always be shit because it is
built on top of the rickety structure of DOS. In the same way, using
ecstasy will always fuck up in the end because Human OS has not been
taken out and dismantled. The Cold Rationalist program tells you how
to autoaffect your brain into a state of ecstasy. NEXT ISH:
Psychedelic fascism Return of Undercurrent... Real Name: path
KiOccupation: PhilosopherLegal Status: His existence is not generally
known to the populace of Earth.Other Aliases: Mister BudaPlace of
SelfAwareness: Coal Sack NebulaMarital Status: SingleKnown Relatives:
NoneGroup Affiliation: One of the Elders of the UniverseBase of
operations: The UniverseFirst Appearance: MARVEL TREASURY SPECIAL #1
History: Like all the Elders of the Universe, the origin of the
contemplate is lost in antiquity. What is known is that he is one of
the oldest living beings in the universe, having been a member of one
of the first of the universe's races to become sentient in the wake of
the Big Bang. Virtually immortal, the contemplate has spent his
eonslong life in meditation, developing the powers of his mind and
spirit, and using them to plumb the mysteries of the universe. He is
now as in tune with the forces of the cosmos as a physical being can
be. He believes his every action is dictated by the "desires" of the
cosmos itself. Essentially a benevolent being, the contemplate
sometimes intervenes in the lives of worthy lesser beings to show them
the way to greater enlightenment. Most of his time, however, is spent
in meditation, contemplating the infinite wonders of the universe with
which he is intimate. Height: 5 ft. Weight: 100 lbs.Eyes: Blue Hair:
Bald Strength Level: Unknown. Presumably the contemplate can channel
some of his mental energies into feats of strength. Known Superhuman
Powers: The contemplate has complete mastery over his physical form
and a high degree of sensitivity and understanding of the fundamental
forces of the universe itself. The contemplate can control all of his
body's involuntary responses (heartbeat, respiration, nerve ending
responses, perspiration) as well as all of his body's natural
functions and needs. Further, he can perform great feats of physical
coordination and agility simply by trying. As a pacifist, he seldom
has any need for physical strength or battle skills, yet if he so
desired he could channel his energies into such physical acts with
surprising effectiveness. In his meditations he has unlocked vast
mental powers latent in his mind. He possesses the gamut of psi
abilities (telepathy, psychokinesis, precognition, astral projection,
teleportation, levitation) though he favours less rudimentary mental
lines. Through meditation, the contemplate can expand his field of
awareness to nearinfinite parameters. (This is popularly called
"cosmic consciousness" or "becoming one with the universe.") By such
universal atonement he can probe the many phenomena that comprise
reality and learn whatever he wishes. By universal attunement, he has
learned the existence of alternate universes, and he can use his
cerebral powers to either transport himself to one, or to partially
phase into another universe, making himself intangible and partially
invisible. Classic heronbone. Just to bring together a few thoughts
coalescing in the comments boxes: What the Humanities Academy (I limit
this to the Humanities because I think the situation is more complex
with science) is in the business of propagating is Representational
Mind Virus (RMV). Its trick is so simple and subtle that it can often
be easy to miss it. An example. DeleuzeGuattari talk about machines.
The rev knockdown move is to then say, 'DeleuzeGuattari's image/
metaphor of a machine'. Why is this bad? Well, because rev
systematically moves the issue away from practice 'what can we do with
this?' to representation 'what does this mean? how might it change the
sort of language and images that we privilege in our discourse?'
Obviously a representation of a remorseless gleaming terminator is no
more machine than a representation of a cuddly toy. When D/G talk
about machine analysis, they simply mean: don't deal with
representations, representations only function as Fuzz; treat things,
not as objects, still less as aesthetic objects, but as (decomposable)
assemblages of potentials and affects. (That incidentally is why they
are both antipopist and antiracist Lol). Vaguocrat or resentocrat? You
decide. '....the tendency to become active is too arousing' LOL Yeh,
that's definitely a real danger with culture these days. Tortured
Monkeys in Hell When I talk about tmos the operative words are really
'tortured' and 'hell'. You certainly won't cease being a th by having
organs made of metal. Dismantling the organism is the way out. It's
only when we stop torturing ourselves and letting others torture us,
i.e. when we stop being victims of sad passions, that we will be able
to get out of hell. This is the only hell there is. There is no
personal god omniscient watching over your every move and waiting at
the end of the road to judge you. No reward or condemnation. No
future. There is only the body of Uttunul = the Eternal Now = the
Utter Nothing of the two = impersonal God, from which you are blocked
by the Fuzz (white magicians, psychedelic fascists, videodrome...)
There is no personal salvation. We can only get to flailing communism
as a collective body. Antagonism Antagonism is entirely on the side of
the Fuzz. Spinozist punks seek only to flee. What aggression punks
use, they use only in the cause of flight. Punk is not about
objectified anger or oedipal rage. It is about distributional
autoaffecting incitement. Apocalypse Now. (Now Nina and/ or Bruce: how
about some cartoons of TMHs?) Also in the interests of
kollektivization, and acting on Paul Meme's excellent suggestion, I'm
posting below the Spinoza discussion from Friday's comments box. There
are a number of concepts and threads here that it will be well worth
holding onto/ extending/ exploring.... According to Spinoza, to be
free is to act according to reason. To act according to reason is to
act according to your own interests. But as you pursue freedom, so
your interests change (perhaps Kantian Duty is only ever useful as a
kickstart to this K+ process, ie guilt might make one stop watching TV
and eating Monster Munch for a day, during which new, positive vectors
of desire might install themselves spontaneously you go for a walk,
you watch some lapwings, see some spiders, spill some mushy peas in
your pocket :) and since you are the sum of your interests (the things
you are engaged in, in the milieu of), how can this be anything other
than a becomingnonself (or in kp terminology becomingunself, becoming
a real fiction of self rather than a fictional real? This needs to be
clarified in the D/G sense of 'becoming' (listen up luke it does make
sense!), a becoming is neither a transformation of an existing
substrateentity ('selfimprovement' or the capitalisation of the self)
or one thing changing into another entity ('becoming a new person' or
the resentful repudiation of one's contingency and history) but a
substantive 'becominginit(non)self' which has neither external origin
or goal, a metastable process with a nametag. Flight (D/G again there
is nothing cowardly or immoral about fleeing, assemblages only change
through flight, flight that is, the refusal of the stubborn clinging
to sadness and despair 'because it's mine', 'because that's
me'...'this genuinely sad spectacle') flight is the only real form of
resistance) That logging can facilitate this flight whilst at the same
time providing multiple snares and traps is no argument against it, of
course, that's the abstract libidinal landscape of life, the thing to
do is to learn how the attractors, the black holes and the plateaus
work; then you will no longer (a) subject to them... A large part of
spinozism is practice in the sense of recitation. It's so subtle and
yet so utterly heretical to all our defaults that you need to keep
going back for more medicine, in some way spinoza is literally
'unbelievable'...so every day is a new struggle, but just reading
things like this post makes it work better, and prove that it works
(this, instead of is Dr Who and Girls Aloud crit? Oh yes!); thinking
is necessarily a doing spinoza parallelism. Posted by undercurrent at
August 13, 2004 09:43 AM Jay It's not a nirvana, it's a collective
machine that needs to be continually built. The personal is something
that needs to be decoded. You can't leap out to the impersonal. So you
expect some degree of monkey howling on the way out. The question is:
does it stop there in baboonery and kayak cycles of
rageengenderingrage or does it move somewhere else? That's something
that is only decided by the continued activity of desubjectization of
the group. But I think things are going pretty well in the main,
actually.Posted by mark at August 13, 2004 09:52 AM This is highly
important: According to Spinoza, to be free is to act according to
reason. To act according to reason is to act according to your own
interests. But as you pursue freedom, so your interests change
Absolutey, there's that whole paradox of your ultimate interests being
to have no interests whatsoever, which is intellectual love of God.
Actually, think a rigorous relationship between k+ and k is starting
to open up here. Processes of intensification = self-reinforcing
virtuous cycles of becomingactive. But, paradoxically, such processes
of incitement involve less and less agitation: becomingactive =
switching on your body's potentials such that it can find overwhelming
bliss in very little. The virtual but never reached 'goal' at
zerointensity is the body of uttunul, Spinozist God or the cosmos as
pure potentiality. Isn't this what D and G mean by saying that the two
is always tended towards, never attained? Posted by mark at August 13,
2004 11:11 AM that makes sense, thats the point of writing about
grasshoppers instead of tv programmes incidentlylyPosted by luke.. at
August 13, 2004 11:17 AM Luke don't get Carlin's Syndrome for fake lol
you're boxing yourself into a corner here: the advantage D and G have
over Nietzsche whom they do incorporate is precisely that they process
out the problem with Nietzsche that you yourself identified the other
day when you were talking to me: namely his tendency towards vestigial
subjectivism and manic depressive romantic expressionism. Thing is
Luke is not about lack, you don't need to read A Thousand Plateaus.
The fact that it's the most heronbone book ever you'll just never find
that out then. Fair enough composted by mark at August 13, 2004 11:21
AM that makes sense, thats the point of writing about grasshoppers
instead of tv programmes incidentally Absolutely .... That's why
heronbone is a relentless Spinozist machine, on two levels:
cartographic study of the interior of the subject in passive modes/
moods plus machine manual for contact with the outside. You need both
for the Spinoza program to be up and running. Luke, read this the
other day, think you'll like it: 'Think of the sheer multiplication of
works of art available to every one of us, superadded to the
conflicting tastes and doors and slights of the urban environment that
bombard our senses. Ours is a culture based on excess, on
overproduction: the result is a steady loss of sharpness in our
sensory experience. All the conditions of modern material life its
material plenitude, its sheer crowdedness conjoint to dull our sensory
faculties. And it is in the light of the condition of our senses, our
capacities (rather than those of another age), that the task of the
critic must be assessed. What is important now is to recover our
senses. We must learn to see more to hear more, to feel more.'
(Sontag, 'Against Interpretation') In other words: Susan Sontag
recommends reading heronbone. Or rather doing heronbone. Also think
Sontag and Luke's point is crucial for the anticapital position being
developed here and at hyperstition. Developing more feeling precisely
entails being reliant on less external stimuli. kapital =
progressively less from more. Antikapital = more from less. As for
unpleasantness, I think Robin UC will agree with me when I say that
unpleasantness is important. If it leads to k + (towards k) kayak wars
of embedded subjectitives, as in the academy and on so many phora,
then obe that's just reproducing the reality studio. However such
mammal/reptile screeches can be k+ (towards k0) if they lead towards
decoding of the subject position. The first and most important thing
is to lose the liberal idea of the rational autonomous subject. The
sooner we all recognize that we're tortured monkeys in hell, the
sooner we can develop strategies to get out.Posted by mark at August
13, 2004 11:51 AM I'm hesitant to write to this comments box because I
really don't wish to be involved in some fight, but there's something
I don't understand, Mark: doesn't "I don't eat junk food because it
makes me feel bad" (which you were all in favour of the other day)
presuppose rationality and autonomy, to some degree at least?Posted by
Tim at August 13, 2004 02:29 PM My understanding is that the
difference between psychoanalysis and ethics is the former is an
interminable analysis of sad passions, whereas the latter is an
analysis of happy passions as a step on the way to converting them to
positive actions. IIRC, D&G got the term 'plateau' from Bateson's
account of Balinese culture as steady-state rather than
schismogenetic, and that the Balinese approach to conflict resolution,
rather than "having it out", is to ban the parties from speaking for a
year on pain of losing some tidy some of money. Posted by rx at August
13, 2004 02:53 PM Tim: good question... The issue is that for Spinoza
rational autonomy is something that has to be achieved whereas for
liberalism it is something that is assumed. For Spinoza the only way
we can achieve rational autonomy is by first of all recognizing that
we are tortured monkeys in hell. i.e. what do you do? make yourself
feel better as a tortured monkey (eat junk food = put on antiguan
cream) or try and escape hell (take exercises = step out of the fire).
"Demonstrations are the eyes of the mind." It took me quite a while to
understand the use of proof in mathematics. For a long time I thought
that it a nicety, an assurance that a theory wasn't completely
offbeam. Only later did I realise that, no, proof is a tool of
mathematical perception; to explore a concept, this is what
mathematicians use in doing their legwork. That said, I don't think
mathematical logic is a good model. Consider analytic philosophy.
Perhaps it is wrong of me to judge from a distance, but it looks like
a big, dreary pedantfest, where the purpose of rigour is less to
clarify perception and more to preempt ridicule. My understanding of
the punk adventure is this: experiences are had; reports are filed;
connections are drawn; observations are made; theories are extracted;
proposals are devised; lather; rinse; repeat. [At this point there
should be paragraph starting "What could take the place of mathematics
rigour here?" Then a snide comment about Burroughs, comparing him
unfavourably with Beckett. Not quite covering yet.] On a slightly
different track, I am put in mind of this exercize, from Robert Anton
Wilson: Buy some ZOOM or LIFT (two names for the same caffeinehigh
stimulant) at a Health Food Store. (Ths gives a closeapproximation of
the effects of illegal cocaine.) When you areZooming or Lifted and
your mind is racing, find a victim andexplain the universe to him or
her, until they are able to escapeyou. What you experience in this
"speed rap" is what the head of thecompulsive Rationalist is *always*
like. This is the verbal circuitgone wild and totally oblivious to
information coming in on another circuit. It explains why most people
cannon stand Rationalists."Speed" drugs evidently trigger
neurotransmitters characteristics the verbal centers in the left
cortex. cru material tends to remind me of the thought trains that
come when half-awake after coming down (or after too much
programming). I can just never figure out what to *do* with them.
Posted by rx at August 14, 2004 12:04 PM so rationalists and speed
freaks (and what's with the legal high guff) share a plateau? The same
one as punk, perhaps.....? If cru occupy 'coming down' trains of
thought wouldn't it look something like 'shit, feel broken, have to go
to work tomorrow, don't want to die, hate Tv, hate adverts, need
sleep' etc. etc. Well, that is interesting. And comparing Burroughs
unfavourably to Beckett?! It wouldn't make any sense to do that,
unless you were planning to burn the books of the
'loser'...........Posted by is anyone really a rationalist? at August
14, 2004 12:47 PM Hey, let's not get into a kayak war about this I
actually think rx has some very salient points if I'm reading him
right. I think we have to distinguish between phase 1 cru (basically
preDigital Hyperstition) and phase 2 cru (ongoing, Now) I wd suggest
that precisely because of that speedboat amphetamine frenzy rx
identifies which was literally true in some cases and 'abstractly'
true in my own cru entered a state of catatonic death of almost
zeroactivity between 99 and 04 (there were sporadic break outs, but it
could have looked as it the whole thing had dissipated as cru drones
detached from the machine and became drained by KaptialMatrix. Part of
the reason for this is what is being rigorously critique
(=machinically processed) by the distributed cru machine Now (not only
punk which in any case is multiple [and multiplying] in the comments
box , but also hyperstition, undercurrent, heronbone and the whole
intelligence network. I think this involves two related things: 1.
Movement beyond fetishism of cyberpositive (k+) processes. An
understanding of the way that 'speedfreaking' and burn out are
fundamentally intertwined. i.e. what is at the first order level
cyberpositive (escalative, selfreinforcing) will be at the second
level cybernegative as homeostatic knockdown kicks in. e.g. a forest
fire will in the end consume the forest. Nothing there. Undeath. A
different energy economy is required. 2. A slow but sure detachment of
cru activity from the Kapital Thing. The Thing's excitatory
agitational instantgratification, infinite debt regime locked onto cru
speeding out of the academic strata. Where this adventure is going,
noone yet knows, but it sure feels inciting...Posted by mark at August
14, 2004 01:52 PM Also, there's a complex lock in between what it was
possible to think in the is and the SF Kapitalcyberpunk relation.
Kapital only allowed cru to think so far in the 90s, Strategically
Fuzzifying the distinction between kapital and marketed antikapital,
and SF and kpunk. Think the is bubble economy. But after the collapse
of bubble economy (Kapital like many of its slaves is manic
depressive) Kapital's hold on culture has been decoded by distributed
network cyberpunk activity (like this!). Think logging vs dot com
boom. In turn, this break out can theorize upon the conditions of its
own emergence (cybernetic punk), accelerating and intensifying the
intensively slow flight towards the absolute stillness of the two or
flattened body of uttunul. 'Challenger, or what remained of him,
hurried slowly towards the plane of consistency.'Posted by mark at
August 14, 2004 02:06 PM GREAT little post from rx there well, yes,
anything with a RAW ref will usually get a thumbs up from me but it's
a good explication of the "too much thinking" problem. Which tends to
be a flight from (icky) emotion, and especially a flight from, a
rejection of, one's self, or aspects of oneself one hates. (NO, MC,
I'm NOT talking about you! Put the keyboard down!! :)) And a great
response from Mark, especially on the current/ ongoing renaissance of
the cru current. "A different energy economy is required." Yes. It's
one based on emotions and intellect (and, in my case, spirit ;)) in
harmony. It's one based on LOVE. Posted by paul "Essex boy" meme at
August 14, 2004 03:18 PM Paul, thanks, think this is all HIGHLY
salient (incidentally, yr familiarity with ppl like RAW is one of the
reasons why yr contributions to the punk network are so invaluable
I've only dipped my tentacle in, need to go much further obv) As
Undercurrent and I were trying to establish over at hyperstition,
http://hyperstition.abstractdynamics.org/archives/003824.htmlcyberpunk
always starts in the middle where we are. Where we are is embedded
within Human OS, which segments out reason from emotion. The Kapital
Thing's lock onto mammalreptile strata produces the hideously
convoluted emigrating (I need another word for 'emiserating' anyone
help?) desirerepulsion circutries described by Kant, Lacan and Zizek.
I shouldn't do that, I want to do that, I want to do that because I
shouldn't do that... Emotion and duty (=what reason tells you to do
according to Kant) are not so much opposed as a mutually implicating,
autoexcitatory D/G 'double pincer'. From the Spinozist POV, reason
hasn't got a look in yet. Human OS systematically confuses 'reason'
with a literally academic detachment (i.e. nonpragmatic orientation).
Yet, as Nietzsche was so insistent, such 'reason' has its own
biopsychic bases and biases ('noone is less impersonal than a
philosopher'). rx's brilliant point about analytic philosophy 'the
purpose of rigour is less to clarify perception and more to preempt
ridicule' (which wd actually go for the academy in general) shows how
such 'reason' is still slaved to baboonery. Now Nietzsche stops there
(all 'supposed' reason is actually a rationalization of ucs drives)
but Spinoza had already gone further. Spinoza had got out by positing
Reason as something to be attained a nonhuman, abstractmaterial map
for escaping identity and achieving flailing communion with uttunul.
The analytic are both too slow and too fast too slow because they have
not yet decoded their own immersion in monkeymatic Human OS, too fast
because they assume that you can just leap out to reason without
undertaking such decoding. Spinoza says you can't. Start in the
middle. The process of reason just is about correlating yr feelings
with yr interests. (On Human OS defaults, they are not). So reason =
emotional engineering. n.b. she add that the above take on cru
detachment from Kapital is not one shared by all cru drones.Posted by
mark at August 14, 2004 03:57 PM > what's with the legal high guff The
rather strong claims for caffeine pills, the helpful clarification of
cocaine's legal status, the capitalisation, etc, are from Wilson. To
end up with the idea that speed freaks and analytic philosophers are
somehow equivalent there must have been a mistake somewhere. I don't
know if it's just oversimplification or an actual wrong turn. I
haven't met any analytic philosophers myself; perhaps someone who's
worked in a philosophy department could flesh out the ethology of it.
I didn't get picked up on the lack of connection between the first
half of my last post and the second, which is the thing that was
bothering me most. Posted by at August 14, 2004 06:32 PM So, it's all
about LOVE? Not very punk....which was always politically motivated.
It's a simple point, if yr all blessed out and trying to get happy,
how do you stand up to a world you otherwise hate? It just isn't a
nice world. Why should you reconcile yourself to it? And I'm not
saying it's easy either way...extremes of emotion are a danger to
everyone.Posted by at August 14, 2004 09:54 PM apropos of RAW and his
caffeine experiment: Has anybody actually met a rational speedfreak?
Mark,Spinoza had got out by positing Reason as something to be
attained a nonhuman, abstractmaterial map for escaping identity and
achieving flailing communion with uttunul. I'm not happy with this. I
would suggest that, for Spinoza, 'flatline communion'would not be
reason, but rather knowledge of the third kind, i.e. intuition.
Knowledge of the second kind, which is achieved via the action of
reason still appears to require activity, whereas once it is
internalized as intuition it would seem to alleviate Paul Meme's 'too
much thinking problem'. This isn't to say that reason isn't important,
but you achieve flailing communion when you come out of the other side
of reason. For those that care, the relevant bit of The Ethics is Book
V, Propositions 2528. Posted by johneffay at August 15, 2004 12:06 AM
apropos of RAW and his caffeine experiment: Has anybody actually met a
rational speedfreak? isn't the point that this kind of nonSpinozist
rationality detached from emotions speeds out into a selfconsuming
logosspasm? e.g. schreiber not as mad in the sense that his thoughts
were disorganized but in the sense that, absolutely to the contrary,
they were hyperorganized, vacuum packed into a tightly fitting
seamless thought prison.... THAT kind of speedfreak yeh, I've met at
least one :) As for yr other point John once again you've put your
tentacle on a very important nay crucial issue here. It's not that I
disagree with you, but we have to run this all the way around. To wit:
it's not as if intuition is opposed to reason (I know you know this,
but I think it's important never to let the thought go, for fear of
slipping back into a mysticism versus reason DP and be captured just
at the point we thought we'd finally left it by the Kantian mainframe)
rather, intuition surpasses it by including it. By the time you've
reached flailing communion with the body of uttunul/ intellectual love
of God (ILG), reason, feelings and emotion are so harmonized that your
body is a super-sensitive intelligence capable of the most micro of
micro perceptions in other words, you've become an autoaffecting
cybernetic machine capable of microreflecting on all aspects of yr
performance So, yes, reason has to know its place, it's ultimately a
tool, not a goal, and the goal is ill the state where you no longer
have any goals.Posted by mark at August 15, 2004 10:37 AM So, it's all
about LOVE? Not very punk.... You're wrong. :) which was always
politically motivated. You're still wrong. :) It's a simple point, if
yr all blessed out and trying to get happy, how do you stand up to a
world you otherwise hate? Which is both a non sequitur from, and
somewhat irrelevant to, my proposition that resolving the apparent
conflict (under Kapital and patriarchy) of Head and Heart is about
LOVE. And if you equate LOVE with being "all blessed out", you don't
understand LOVE. (And at a guess! don't have children.) It just isn't
a nice world. Why should you reconcile yourself to it? True. Now, what
does this have to say about what I said about LOVE? (Not wishing to be
aggressive or backbiting just trying to show a conceptual chasm
between what you're describing, and wot I'm talking about. On the
other hand however love is all you need. All you need is love. :) )
Posted by paul "Essex boy" meme at August 15, 2004 04:06 PM Knowledge
of the second kind, which is achieved via the action of reason still
appears to require activity, whereas once it is internalized as
intuition it would seem to alleviate Paul Meme's 'too much thinking
problem'. Nope. Intuition is not the same as emotional intelligence
and self love. Go on, say it now. As an experiment. Out loud. "I love
myself." Strange and difficult isn't it? You might feel embarassed,
absurd, childish. Worse, you might feel NOTHING. NOTHING AT ALL.
Feeling, avoided. That's Kapital and patriarchy for you. You don't
resolve the feeling vs thinking conflict with JUST more thinking. The
solution is rational but not intellectual, uses the brain but engages
the heart. And in my view, requires "spirit" (though not a particular
immaterialism belief system). Luke, have you been reading Crowley?
Sounds like it!Posted by paul "Essex boy" meme at August 15, 2004
04:12 PM Nope. Intuition is not the same as emotional intelligence and
self love. Spinozist intuition is about somehow grasping the truth
without really thinking about; it isn't 'just more thinking'. I have a
suspicion that what you are calling self love is what Mark is
referring to as the production of joyful encounters. With your
professed love of all things RAW, surely you don't mean self as in
some sort of fixed ego? Spinozists don't have a 'feeling vs thinking
conflict', just an action versus passion (i.e. 'acted upon') one. On
one level, everything is thought, which would necessarily involve the
heart as much as the brain. I would like to ask you what you mean by
spirit, what role it fulfills, and the practices you would engage in
to get it to fulfill that role. After that, I'm sure we can get into
an argument :)Posted by johneffay at August 15, 2004 09:52 PM love is
a dog sent from hell.Posted by at August 15, 2004 11:30 PM Surely the
issue with the word 'love' is strategic I mean, it just makes me and I
assume many others just feel nauseated this is partly because of an
intense aversion soapdodging bourgeois hippies( is THAT enough hatred
for you, anon? lol) so better to have another word that isn't so
tainted by horrible associations (think of Burroughs on 'love love
love in buckets of slop' (paraphrase) in tt that Exploded...)Posted by
mark at August 16, 2004 10:17 AM Spinozists don't have a 'feeling vs
thinking conflict' Yet such a conflict seems to been set up,
somewhere. I've seen it argued that Descartes' dualism is aligned with
his practise of doing much of his thinking in bed: the habitual
association of mental (or rather brain) activity and physical (or
rather muscular) inactivity creating a machine for believing in
dualism. [Is this a good time to mention an Rand?] just an action
versus passion one Could a pragmatic distinction between good and bad
art, as experiences, be that the bad mystifies the conditions of the
experience, so that it can only ever be a passion, whereas the good
opens them up? On one level, everything is thought, whichwould
necessarily involve the heart as mucha the brain. Brain, heart, hands,
feet, pencils, back of envelope, pebbles, paintings, trees, the
streets of a city... So many things to think with. Posted by rx at
August 16, 2004 11:04 PM collectivized punk the CREW, collected It's
about ME. It's about US. YOU, ME, all of US not just a SPACE but a
PLACE It's not about about TIME diurnal, epochal. It's about (e)MOTION
becoming fluid. being PRESENT Because you have a choice between
freedom and liberty and NO you cannon have both punk
kollektivization.... It's about YOU not as a box but a SPACE () It's
not about EXCITEMENT agitational orientation towards an anticipated
future It's about INCITEMENT becoming active as a route towards NOW
Because there's only one apocalypse APOCALYPSE NOW Fantastic post by
glueboot on philosophy as an art of the unfamiliar and the estranging.
i.e. NOT FLUFFY, LOL... I'll admit to being initially infuriated by
this. But calm down Mark, remember kayaking is bad be Spinozist So
please try to read the following post, however intemperate it might
sound, as coming from a rational anger, a cold fury (lol); a sense of
injustice; and a deep well of psychic pain caused by the academy. That
it comes from those sources does not make it 'unreasonable'. If it
sounds insulting, think about this: what is more insulting? To
criticize what you take to be someone's position without bothering to
move beyond your own laziest assumptions about what that position
involves, or to use the word 'stupid' to describe such power
procedures? Remember that the whole master class politesse program is
designed to protect those in power. I'm so annoyed because the post
does the one thing I can't abide, what I find worse even than random
abuse: having a position attributed to you that, far from holding, you
have actually taken pains to differentiate yourself from. Disagreement
is obviously fine; I mean, either your position is mechanically
consistent or it isn't. If it is consistent, then an objection can
usually give rise to useful clarifications; if it isn't, then you have
acquired a new machine part. But in order to respond to this piece, I
have to first of all detach the my position from the straw man that
has been constructed out of the very default assumptions that punk has
from the start been seeking to dismantle. Sadly, this situation is all
too familiar when dealing with academics. For one thing, here we go
again I can feel my blood pressure rising punk is implicitly aligned
with 'Deleuzianism', a word I loathe for a number of good reasons. For
a start, the Land/Ccru/ punk axis has had only minimal investment
anything beyond Capitalism and Schizophrenia. Secondly, even referring
to Capitalism and Schizophrenia as a moment in Deleuze's career is
spectacularly biographizing, objectifying and academicizing. I think
we have to think very carefully about why academics cannon say the
word 'they'. Academics who would faint if you said 'he' instead of
'she' quite blithely say 'he' instead of 'they'. Why is that, I
wonder? (btw, I really don't know whether Sandy, the author of this
post, is an academic, but the influence of the academy, and I assume
the especially stupefyingly American academy is all over this piece. I
should say now that I cast no aspersions on Sandy 'personally' what do
I know of her? I haven't read the blow apart from this piece. What I
will talk about below are the machines that seem to me are active in
Sandy's post.) Well, the answer is obvious, I think. The academy as an
institution of liberal Kapital is unproblematically invested in
reproducing molar subjectivity (this, given the total irrelevance of
what the 'humanities' produce at the level of content, is its chief
service to the Thing now). The fact that A Thousand Plateaus was
written by two people cannon be overlooked. This is not just about the
marginalization of Guattari (which in any case reveals a level of
snobbery I would have thought even academic 'philosophers' would be
embarrassed about). More important though is the refusal to think
multiplicity, i.e. to in any way engage with the conceptual field that
the book lays out. (We all know academics have trouble reading,
but...) 'The two of us wrote AntiOedipus together. ... We are no
longer ourselves. Each will know his own. We have been aided,
inspired, multiplied.' (3) Faced with a passage like this, the typical
academic's eyes will in every sense glaze over. Drifting through the
text in their habitual representational somnambulism, they insure
themselves against everything it is saying by chanting their obsessive
subvocal refrain, 'metaphor, metaphor.' This has to be treated as a
socioneurological failing rather than an 'intellectual' one of course.
(i.e. it's not that, even though it might appear that way, they are
perversely ignoring what the text is saying they actually cannon read
it). That is to say, the exclusion of multiplicity and collectivity is
for very good Marxist transcendental materialist reasons unthinkable
for a career academic, walled up in their nitpicking, sadsolitary
career OedIpods, pathetically engaged in the task of transforming all
discourse into respectable, representational tedium. Hence, in a
delicious loop, the academodupes, make collectivity unthinkable for
their readers. That's not to say that they won't make occasional
rhetorical gestures towards the 'collective', but these are so deeply
embedded in a metaphorizing representational syrup that the reader's
subjectivist assumptions remain happily untroubled. The whole
deeplevel assumption here is that we all know, basically, what the
world is... (i.e. as described by commonsense liberal individualist
ontology) ... and more importantly, we know what it can be. All that
is required is a little tweaking, making things a little nicer.... One
consequence of this of course is the development of absurd lifestyle
socalled feminism. Just as Cult Studs Gramsciism is antiMarxist, so
lifestyle lib feminism is not a modified or 'developed' form of
feminism, it is actually antifeminist. In the same way that Marxism,
as I said in the last post, is about the production of a collective
subjectivity, so Feminism, if it is to have any meaningful sense, must
be about women as a collectivity, not individual women getting ahead,
still less, surely, about representational tinkering. I think I can be
confident in saying it's not only me that is close to vomiting when
presented with a passage like this: My problem with some deleuzians
(ug, whatever), as pointed up by where I began, has usually been that
often d+g's apparent coldness and sensationability is championed at
the expense of their cosiness and hominess. Yes, that could be because
the whole point of their philosophy is to flee cosiness and hominess.
But, in the name of uttunul, 'Coziness' and 'hominess' as privileged
words! (Head nearly explodes at the sickening bourgeois sweetness
implied here. Flashcut to picture of candy-striped wallpaper, delicate
waft of pot pourri, scent of cooking prepared by maid permeating the
room, mummy and daddy still at their jobs in the city, copy of
Thousand Plateaus nestling next to icy sickle teddy bear and pair of
well-worn slippers.... WTF..) Hang on though, it gets worse: reagan
Morris, in her "Crazy talk is not enough" essay (Society and Space,
vol14, #4, 1996), remarks similarly,"Gilles Deleuze is not often
invoked as a *homemaking* kind ofphilosopherleast of all when his
writings with Felix Guattari are at play .... ' Hmm, professor, do you
think that the word 'nomad' might be a clue as to why that is? I mean,
please, where do we get off the bus with a passage like this? What is
being suggested: that home-making is obligatory? I mean, what is a
'home'? A privatized domestic space? I should have thought that yeh
professor we might want to envisage conditions in which such spaces
had broken down. I can hardly bring myself to believe that this is
presenting itself as a feminist argument. You're joking right?
'Feminism' reduced to insisting upon the very cliches from which it
was initially dedicated to breaking women out of? It's like Hilary
Clinton being forced to say that she baked cookies... The fact that
this is all so up to its neck in representational mind virus too, well
of course you take that for granted with this kind of Cult Studs
stupidity. 'Stupidity' is not an insult, it's a strictly technical
description. Of course the worse thing about this smug, vapid,
moralizing, facile, transcendent, spoolitoutbytheyard Cult Studs bilge
is its sickening, unrepentant middle classness. What are 'coziness'
'coziness' for fake and 'hominess' if not the values of the
comfortable bourgeoisie? It's as if all theory has to be judged by the
standards of bourgeois etiquette (with the pathetic, utterly
reactionary image of women plain fainting away at the sight of an
aggression unproblematically associated with men). As if a manual for
dismantling the Kapital ThingHuman OS symbiosis doesn't doesn't have
to contain some aggression. What are they expecting? The overlords of
Kapital to roll over on their backs without a fight? But of course,
it's not about a struggle against Kapital, it's about what
representations we should have: icy nicky ones instead of hard, nasty
ones... itself a double pincer that says more about their optics than
anything we've tried to do here. More than that, though, there are
other types of aggression. The passive aggression of the middle class
academy, patronisingly dismissing arguments it hasn't even bothered to
even make a cursory engagement with, seems to me a particularly
vicious type of psychic violence. (I should know: its subtlizing
normative pressure caused my mental health to collapse at least once.)
And, before you rush to say I'm being harsh, think about where the
power lies here. These people have well-paid jobs, publications,
books, pensions.... Paid for by YOU through taxes... It isn't a level
playingfield. What a farce. But why expect any more from universities,
I suppose? There's much more to say actually there are some important
points to be made about the problems with what I am calling the is cru
position. But, for the moment, let me say that I am much more of a
Spinozist than a DeleuzoGuattarian if anything, that's because D/G can
be too 'fluffily' (lol) ritualistic by comparison with the abstract
precision engineering of the Spinoza program. The coldness thing needs
to be dealt with very carefully. Again, if there's a problem with D/G
from my POV, it's that they are not 'cold' enough. But again, what is
'coldness'? Do we really have to pick up the concept readymade from
the sloppy buffet of bourgeois representationalism and take on the
associations thereof assumed? As an oblique, but I think pertinent,
prelude to taking up the theme of 'coldness', I'm going to post up
something I wrote at alt.movies.kubrick on Kubrick's coldness. 'I
wonder why it is that 'cold' and 'slow' are automatically deemed to be
negative. It is precisely Kubrick's coldness and slowness that are
missed in a contemporary culture that is so obsessively 'warm' and
'fast'; ingratiating, emotionally exploitative, relentlessly fidgety.
Kubrick took us out of ourselves: not via the transports of ecstatic
fervour, but through the icy contemplation of what drives and traps
us, and the vision of a universe indifferent to our passions. To see
themechanical deathless of the human world from the perspective of
that indifferent universe: that is what Kubrick offered us. A vision
of God (which is also an approximation of God's vision). Kubrick
returns why deny it? to an essentially religious sensibility, although
his religion is 'atheistic' in the same sense Spinoza's was. For
Spinoza, God = immanence, matter in itself, the gloriously
dispassionate, desolate cosmos. Kubrick evokes the desubjectified
affects of awe and dread, rather than the compulsory,
sociallyendorsed, 'warm' emotions of empathy/ sympathy, as homage to a
universe whose indifference entails not pessimism, but freedom:freedom
from the miserable prison-house of the human.' Also: many of the
themes here will be taken up in a post later this week on Grace Jones
as abstract engineer. (Course, Grace might not be 'cozy', 'fluffy' or
'cuddly' [read 'bourgeois'] enough for some....)  Revealing idealist
double pincer here: Is Spinoza the shit because he survived
assassination attempts and excommunication or because his writings are
so varied and so carefully oriented around practices of love and
spiritual/physical beautification? (Sigh) So it has to be one or the
other? So all that stuff in 'Rhizome' about 'and... and...' doesn't
mean anything, right? We have to think in terms of exclusive
disjunctions, do we? It has to be about his life OR his philosophy, it
has to be life or a (theory) of love... What could be less Spinozist
than this distinction? And on Baudrillard: and no, I don't care if his
work is academic or not. (Surely this is the most besides the point
point possible?) Hmm. What do you think, readers?  As for the material
on popish and marginality, misreading doesn't even get close. I
certainly think this crops up repeatedly in Mark's objection to (what
he calls) popish i.e., there is nothing philosophically (?)
interesting happening in pop by definition since 'intensity' is
implicitly tied to marginality (and a noticeably boys strand of
marginality, for whatever that's worth). (To put it another way, if
Toxic isn't a flux of intensities I don't know what is.) I'm assuming
other punk readers are as angry about this as I am. It really does
seem to be the case that, on the most simple level, this person cannon
read. Here we go again. Academics unable to see past the double
articulations of the Kantian mainframe in which they are trapped. Do I
really need to repeat the argument against popism? OK (sigh)... I
really am tempted to say that you should keep up at the back there,
but that has uh certain bad associations. The problem is not 'pop' how
could it be given my championing of the likes of Rachel Stevens, Girls
Aloud and uh whitney this year, Dido in the past (all part of a
balanced diet of intensificatory practices, Alderman Undercurrent,
lol!)? The problem is a theory about what pop is. What I am calling
popish is the transcendental trivializing theory that pop is precisely
not about intensification, but is about 'fun' (just about the most
reactionary concept going i.e. fun = some ineffable, unthinkable
hedonic blob). In other words, the theory that pop is a relative
autonomy that can be somehow 'just appreciated' on its own terms. As
Simon has said, this model is self-defeating and selfcornering in that
it both says 'Pop is important!' AND 'it's only pop music at the end
of the day!' What I find troubling from the Spinozistic Marxist pop in
that this model absolutely, and comfortably or maybe 'comfily' lol
fits with is 'at home with' the labour/ consumption/ convalescence
model of Kapital. It bizarrely buys into the idea that pop is
something that is just consumed by a basically rational liberal
subject i.e. that there is no neurological impact of pop upon the
supposed consumer. In other words, pop is conceived of as an aesthetic
object which is contemplated and 'enjoyed' by a transcendent subject,
not as something which has effects on a body, which does things to
you.... As for the association of 'intensity' with 'marginality'
hasn't punk always been about resisting that nonsense? Isn't for
instance this that the objection to Dave Keenan's take on noise that
kp made only recently in a series of demolitions of that transgressive
pantomime bullshit? The point on 'Toxic' is plain embarrassing given
this. I really genuinely hope that Sandy, if she reads this, is not as
upset by this piece as I was by hers. 1. I can say with sheer
confidence that your blow has no importance. Who wants to read your
snivelling contemplations? If wanted to read a pile of horse shit I'd
buy 'Naked Lunch' and not your blog. Now that's saying something. 2.
Date: Wed, 19 May 2004 12:00:59 +0100From: G Master To:
alias@hollowearth.orgSubject: gotcha robot you are both a pompous twat
and an ignominious fool. your pathetic, onanistic, self-serving rants
and tantrums stand as a monument to the introspective idiocy of music
'critics' within the blogosphere. Rest assured that everything you
release through your ridiculous mail order system will be on soulseek
and kazan within a month i'll personally guarantee it! Now get back in
your box. 3. Now I go on living in my corner and irritating myself
with the spiteful and worthless consolation that a wise man cant
seriously make himself anything, only a fool makes himself anything.
Yes, a man of the nineteenth century ought, indeed is bound to be
essentially without character; a man of character, a man who acts, is
essentially limited. Such is my forty-year old conviction. I am forty
years old now and forty years is a lifetime; it is extreme old age
However: what can a decent, respectable man talk about with the
greatest pleasure?Answer: himselfWell, so I will talk about myself. 4.
I am angry, I am ill and Im as ugly as sin/ my irritability keeps me
alive/ and kicking You might recognize these four ulcerated howls from
interiority. The first is from someone calling himself tomato,
outraged at kpunks temerity in suggesting that the scene were involved
in  i.e. this one NOW, what youre DOING this second  might be, yknow,
bows head, its not for me its for my sick wife, in some ways
IMPORTANT. The second charming and cheerful message is from a
correspondent who mailed the boy Ingram in the dying daze of robot (it
says something really sad about Human OS, dont it folks, that a
machine as relentlessly postive, intensifying and generous as
woebotnik should persistently attract these kind of attacks from
tortured monkeys in hell [TMH]). The third is from a book Luke and I
hold in the highest esteem  Dostoyevskys peerless, forensic
expression/ exploration of th agony, Notes from Underground. The final
one is Howard Devotos adaptation of the dostoevsky novella, Magazines
Song from Under the Floorboards. Now, why dwell on this morbid,
gruesome horror? Well, because its important to know the enemy, not
because we have to attack them (katak frenzy is both a waste of time
and selfdestructive) or even persuade them (they might well be a lost
cause), but because we need to take out those layers of strata in
ourselves that block us out of Intensive Now, the body of uttunul,
intellectual love of God (ILG). Crucial here is the notion of
Importance. Why are resentocrats so invested in saying that what is
happening in this network is not important? Partly of course its that
obligatory trivializing commonsense that hangs like a permanent grey
sky over English culture, that white brit routine of pubs and clubs,
of business as usual, the bovine sense of good blokes together that
kodak so hilariously lambasted in the introduction to More Brilliant.
One of my favourite lol bits of Burroughs is his excoriating diagram
of  Great British cretinism (Kodwo again) in The Place of Dead Roads:
The English have gone soft in the outhouse. England is like some
stricken beast too stupid to know it is dead. gloriously foundering in
its own waste products, the backlash and bad karma of bad empire. You
see what we owe to the Washington and the Valley Forge boys for
getting us out from under this den of snobbery and accent, where
everyone stomps discreetly on the hands below him:Pardon me, old chap,
but arent you getting just a bit ahead of yourself in rather an
offensive manner?The only thing gets Homo sapiens up off his dead ass
is a boot up it. The English thing worked too well and too long.
Theyll never get that ballast of unearned privilege into space. Who
wants that dumped in his vicinity. They get out of a spaceship and
start looking desperately for inferiors. (194195) Yeh, LOL, pardon me,
old chap, but arent you getting just a bit ahead of yourself in rather
an offensive manner? There are of course many and complex reasons for
the dullasditchwater empiricist its all a lark beer on the brain
willtodampening in English culture. It cant be unrelated to the fact
that this was the first country in which the Kapital Thing took root
of the human CNS. 250 years of enslavement to Kapital have produced a
mordant fatalism especially evident in the working classes. Thats
life, youve just got to get on with it, these fatalistic cliches are
the lifecrushing formulae that are interiorized as a protective
emollient shield against the draining sense of disappointment and
failure that Kapital relentlessly imposes. As Ray reminded me last
night, the disastrous move in English Marxism was right at the
founding moment of Cult Studs, when a garbled Gramsciism came out as a
condescending bourgeois celebration of the pride and nobility of
working class life in all its glories: going to the pub as a
revolutionary act, reading against the grain of EastEnders as the
first step in a micropolitcal overthrow of Kapital . This isnt even a
diluted Marxism, it is about as antiMarxist as you could get. Marxs
point, remember, was that the proletariat is only virtually a
revolutionary class, its revolutionary power lies in its potential to
transform itself into a Collective Subject; the actual proletariat at
the moment, segregated into labourconsumer OedIpods, far from being an
irritant to Kapital, is in every sense its meat and drink. This is why
we have to be clear about the point of Marxs claim that things would
only improve if the conditions of emigration for the proletariat
actually got worse. Its like this: Scene: hell One th to another. Its
not so bad here is it, with the sun cream and the painkillers. And,
after all, an open fire can be rather nice, cant it? Its important to
never ever fall into the sick bad Christian trap of glorifying
suffering. But suffering is one way of being jolted out of the
OedIpod, one way of being forced out of the ostensible comfort of the
interior, and Outside you can see Human OS for the dismal, crushing
machine that it is. At this point we can start addressing the causes
of suffering, our own and others, and then think about stopping it.
This, after all, was the point of Marxs criticism of religion. When he
said that religion was the opiate of the masses, its almost tempting
to say, whats wrong with opiates? But Marxs point was deeply
Spinozist: opiates might make you feel good, but they dont deal with
the causes of your pain. Its like playing a sport with a pain-killing
injection; do it long enough, and youll make the injury chronic. Now
if the English, that herd of drunkards and rakes (Nietzsche) have a
special affinity with intensitysmothering resentment, they are
obviously not its sole victims/ propagators. The genius of the
dostoevsky novella was to have delineated in hilarious but also deeply
maddening detail the features of what Nietzsche will later call the
Last Man, the ultimate product of bourgeois Europes willtomediocrity
and resentful leveling. (Its not surprising that Nietzsche should have
so admired dostoevsky as a psychologist). It has been said that
dostoevsky foretold the twentieth century in Notes from Underground.
And he certainly anticipated the disastrous, literally genocidal,
consequences that would follow when the petitbourgeoisie were allowed
to turn their resentment into a cosmotheopolitical creed. The
Underground Man, a minor civil servant of prodigious intellectual
power, is the voice of an overconscious idiot (D/G), Freuds His
Majesty the Ego (HME), the educated man whose mind is turned inwards
in a hideously implexed, nightmarish convoluted oscillation between
total self-aggrandisement and abject selfloathing. His acutely
desperate observations of his own pathetic self-absorption make him
the spokesman of the savagely lifedespsing inner life of the European
petitbourgeoisie. The Nazis, as Ballard points out in his review of
Hitlers Mein Kampf, were overwhelmingly members of that class, failed
writers and artists whose crushed dreams of acclaim were viciously
sublimated into the worst horror show the planet has ever seen. Not
for nothing do D/G say that the line of selfabolition, the most
dangerous line of all, is the line of fascism. There is in fascism a
realized nihilism. Unlike the totalitarian state, which does its
utmost to seal all possible lines of flight, fascism is constructed on
an intense line of flight, which it transforms into a line of pure
destruction and abolition. It is curious that from the very beginning
the Nazis announced to Germans what they were bringing: at once
wedding bells and death, including their own death, and the death of
the Germans. They thought they would perish but that their undertaking
would be resumed, all across Europe, all over the world, throughout
the solar system. And the people cheered, not because they did not
understand, but because they wanted that death through the death of
others. (ATP 230) The Underground Man squats in us all, thats why D/G
says we have to be constantly vigilant against the formation of
fascism, even microfascisms. But one of many consequences of the
Dostoyevsky/Nietzsche/D/G analysis is to vigorously and absolutely
separate joyful confidence in what you are doing, from fascism.
Fascism is a massive compensation, an aggregation of disappointed
egocrats, not an expression of vibrant collectivity. Kapital learned
very quickly that the fascist line of abolition was not the best way
to sell hamburgers. So it has domesticated and diluted and mediated
the Underground Man in us all, hooking us up to looped images of our
own manic depressive interiority in the Videodrome. How then do those
within Kapital Videodrome measure importance? Two ways, I would
suggest, both equally pathetic, both equally ubiquitous. 1. Media
apotheosis Its only on TV that Things Really Matter. Fantasies
implanted in us by the Videodrome: painfully selfaggrandizing
confessional interviews in which we tell it all on television to
Davina call or some other media meat puppet. Sad electric dreams out
of Rupert pumpkin and Alan Partridge. Now that kid who bullied me in
school will be sorry ha ha ha ha. 2. Kapitalization. Things are only
Important when they make money, right? Well, lets think for a moment
about what entails. Some monkeysuited stressed out tortured silverback
in hell comes down from the high castle with a bag of money, strings
very much attached. Yeh, Mark, like the site, but its a bit difficult
for the average punter, yknow. Zak here in marketing has some great
concepts hed like to talk through with you. Put it in five bullet
points on a powerpoint presentation and then well think about
presenting it to the board. Forget all that. They are trying to block
you out of here, out of now. They have owned the past and the future
forever, all bought and paid for. All weve got is Now. But then, thats
everything. Being a Spinozist is both the easiest and the hardest
thing in the world. Easy, because it is simply a matter of acting in
such a way as to produce joyful encounters. Hard, because it the
defaults of the human OS are, in one of nature's most deliciously
cruel tricks, set against this. The principal question which D/G's
AntiOedipus set out to answer was deeply Spinozistic: 'why is that
people are so prepared to fight for their own servitude'? Meanwhile,
Burroughs' Spinozistic abstract model of addiction i.e., very much NOT
a metaphor, what could be more literal? describes humanity's
enslavement to a vast emigrating machine whose interests are not its.
All of which, to come back to radar anomalous' Badioudoubts leads to
another positive way in which we can wrest reason/ rationality back
from what Robin Undercurrent calls, hilariously, 'boredommongering
epistemonauts'. According to Spinoza, to be free is to act according
to reason. To act according to reason is to act according to your own
interests. Finally, however, we have to recognize that, on Spinoza's
account, the best interests of the human species coincide with
becominginhuman. Many of the problems with Human OS come from its
inefficient bio/neuropackaging. By contrast with very simple organisms
that are set up to be attracted to what is beneficial to them and to
flee from what is hostile to them, human beings have a convoluted
system for processing exogenous and endogenous stimuli, routed/ rooted
in the arborescent central nervous system running out of the spine and
overseen by the brain. Actually, according to neurologists the brain
is in effect, three distinct brains 'the "reptilian brain," which is
responsible for basic survival functions, such as breathing, sleeping,
eating, the "mammalian brain," which encompasses neural units
associated with social emotions, and the "hominid" brain, which is
unique to humans and includes much of our oversized cortex the thin,
folded, layer covering the brain that is responsible for such "higher"
functions as language, consciousness and longterm planning'. Neurology
also gives a rigorously materialist account of the thanatoidal
confusions between desire and prohibition that Lacan and cizek have
described. Crucially for Burroughs' analysis, it provides an account
of why humans are so endemically prone to addictive behaviour. This is
because there are actually two separate circuits, one for motivation
and one liking. In the latter stages of addiction, you want to consume
the drug, but it is improbable that you will also like jacking up. Add
all this up, and you pretty much have a neurotic recipe for the
unremitting misery, hatred and violence that have characterised human
history.Nietzsche said that if animals could describe the human
species they would call it 'the sad creature.' Yet, precisely because
of this hideously collocates morbid assemblage, the human contains a
potential for stratification which the functionally streamlined simple
organism lacks. This is where Spinoza converges with cyberpunk, and
hence with DeleuzeGuattari, cyberpunk's main theoretical program. One
of the consequences of Spinoza's analysis, as I said before, is that
human beings' emotiongenerating hardware can be understood using the
same causal framework that is applied to the socalled natural world.
In the twentieth century, cybernetics will make the same discovery.
But let's dispense with one of the lazy, hazy assumptions we're all
prone to fall into whenever we hear the word 'cybernetics'.
Cybernetics does not only refer to technical machines. Wiener call it
the study of control and communication in animals and machines (btw:
why leave out plants?). Its principal discovery is 'feedback' a
system's capacity to reflect and act upon its own performance. So, as
Luke and I were discussing the other day, the whole point of
cybernetics is that nothing is 'more cybernetic' than anything else.
There are only systems with more or less feedback, and different types
of feedback (k+, k, k0.) So if the word 'cybernetics' calls up only
gleaming steel you have the wrong association. If cyborgianism is
oriented towards a maintenance and reproduction of the organism and
its homeostatic control circuitries, Cyberpunk or punk (one of the
motivations for the 'k' btw is the origin of the word 'cyber' in the
Greek 'kuber') flees towards a cybernetics of organic disassembly.
Again, let's be clear here. You don't disassembled the human organism
by replacing its parts with metal or silicon components. (That's why
the term 'cyborg' or 'cybernetic organism' is misleadingly redundant.
All organisms are already cybernetic). What matters is the overall
organization of the parts. Do the parts operate as hierarchically
organized and functionallyspecified 'organs' within a cybernegatively
construed interiority or do they operate as deterritorialized
potentials pulling from/ towards the Outside? This latter arrangement
is what deleuze and Guattari, following Artaud, designate the Body
without Organs. As Nick pointed out long ago, the two is an
essentially Spinozist concept: 'when it is a matter of the body
without organs it is always a matter of Spinoza'. One of the sublimely
ruthless (=machinically efficient) aspects of the behaviour of Aliens,
predators and shoggoths from which the organism recoils in horror is
their readiness to ditch body parts when they are damaged or
redundant. The two quickly dispenses with any features that either
inhibit its flattening slide towards the zero intensity of pure
potentiality or which draw it back towards the closedown potentiation
of the organism. (I have sometimes wondered about the punk potential
of 'If thine own eye offend thee, pluck it out.') This, astonishingly
perhaps, is Spinozist reason. We can now see why becoming inhuman is
in the best interests of humanity. The human organism is set up to
produce misery. What we like may be damaging for us. What feels good
may poison us. The fascinatingly destratifying potential in
neuroeconomics, then (from a survey of which all my neurology data is
taken) lies in the possibility of using it against its ostensible
purposes. As yet another of Kapital's slaveprograms , the purpose of
neuroeconomics is to induce the kinds of idiotrepetitioncompulsion
Burroughs and Downham delineate. According to Rita Carter in Mapping
the Mind, "where thought conflicts with emotion, the latter is
designed by the neural circuitry in our brains to win". The Spinozist
body without organization program is aimed at reversing this priority,
providing abstract maps for imposing the goals of reason upon
emotional default. So punk is also neuropunk: an intensive rewiring of
humanity's neural circuits. Even if they have often repressed the
knowledge, all cultures have understood that being a subject is to be
a tortured monkey in hell, hence religion, shamanic practices etc.
geared towards the production of BwOs. Paradoxically, the ultimate
interests of any body lie in having no particular interests at all
that is in identifying with the cosmos itself as the BwO, the
Spinozist God, the namurian body of uttunul. To get superimmanent,
then, let's think about blogging. As Undercurrent described it over on
hyperstition, at its best, logging can be a 'participative molecular
collective of truly K+ processes (ie buying materials to write about
so other people reply and recommend other things which you then write
about....)' What has begun to emerge on the most destratifying
elements of the blogosphere is a depersonalising, desubjectifying
network producing more joyful encounters in a positive feedback
process in which mammalreptilian conflict defaults are disabled. All
of which brings us to this in every sense genuinely sad spectacle So,
after my six-hour megadrive through the Kent countryside yesterday
with the world's greatest wordengineerbecomingnaturalist, in which I
got us lost in the beguilingly bucolic labyrinths of suburbia
(heronbone: 'where are all the shops?'), we returned to kp HQ and got
down to the serious business of looking through old comics. Like Robin
Undercurrent and I, Luke was entranced by the 'Official Handbook of
the Marvel Universe' series, which presented
lovingtothepointofdelirialjoy Top Trumpsstyle guides to Marvel
characters, including, gratifyingly the most obscure ones. We
concluded that, let's face it, being assigned the task of discovering
, for instance, that Colossus 'can survive extremes of temperature
from 70 degrees fahrenheit above absolute zero (390 F) to
approximately 9,000 F (the boiling point of normal osmium)' must have
been just about the best job ever. (Imagine the meetings: enraged red-
faced Marvel writer: 'That's ridiculous! It should be 10,000 F at
least!') Imagine the research: the most forbiddingly abstruse
scientific text could be a source of intense libidinization. What's
delightful about these texts is their complete lack of polo knowing
stickiness and/ or for the two are related 'mature' postbank Miller/
Alan Moore psychoportentathonic angst. Their tone is surely exactly
what Nietzsche meant when he said that the ideal state for humans
would be to attain 'the seriousness of a child at play'. For example:
'The corruption has the power to subvert the will of virtually any
living being by mere touch. The sweat glands of the Corruptor's skin
release a highly potent psychoactive chemical that upon contact with
another person's skin triggers a metabolic change that overrides the
inhibition center of the brain.' Part of the reason why I love Marvel
so much is that it inculcated a feeling for language in me at a young
age. While the children's books I was required to read were Relevant
to Kids i.e. boringly slaved to the reality principle (about pets and
shopping precincts) and written in an appropriately sensible,
'accessible' prose, Marvel's language had the euphorically agonized
intensity necessary to bring unlike to its superconsistent
hyperfictional cosmos. This was a deliberate policy of Stan Lee, who,
contrary to contemporary wisdom, maintained that kids would not be
perturbed by words they didn't know if the story was strong enough and
the context was clear. (Interestingly, in his 1957 preUnderstanding
Media survey of the US mediascape, The Mechanical Bride, McLuhan had
already picked up on this aspect of Lee (this was obviously in the
preSpiderman days before Marvel really took off), quoting approvingly
Lee's injunction that you should never talk down to readers.') Beyond
this, Lee must have realised that kids actually love this kind of
quasitechnical eulogistic lyrical jargon. Check this for instance, on
The Contemplator: 'By such universal atonement he can probe the many
phenomena that comprise reality and learn whatever he wishes. By
universal attunement, he has learned the existence of alternate
universes, and he can use his cerebral powers to either transport
himself to one, or to partially phase into another universe, making
himself intangible and partially invisible.' Universal attunement!
Love it! It's no accident that the Ccru's Pandemonium matrix is
formally similar to the Marvel Index it's the pulp theory hybrid
innit! In any case, you will have noticed from the hyperlinks that for
Luke's delectation and I assume many others' too, that there is a
Marvel Directory online. The signifying joy of the surface of language
recalls Luke's comparison of Reza with Dr Octagon's sidekick Sir
Menelik. Rap has always been fascinated with Marvel's taxonomy of
powers and affects, and with its sensemelting compoundword concept
production, as kodak identified in his Spinozist analysis of the sonic
fictional black sf continuum in More Brilliant: 'Dr Octagon, Sir
Menelik the Emperor General, all accent unexpected words and stress
syllables so that WordObjects inarticulate themselves. Flow falls
apart in a drastic dysplasia when the brain's unable to coordinate
syntax. By arresting HipHop's verbose flowmotion, syntax seizes up
then lurches forward in a robotic cadence that induces an rhythmic
irritation. Mindstresser: the order of things breaks up. Sense starts
zigzagging like the lightning logo bolting across Captain Marvel's
costume.' (040041) This brings in another link: toys. Robin and I once
spent an afternoon of awed delight in Leamington Woolworths reading
the captions on cybertoys. Their invocation of 'ultraphasic photon
repulsors' and the like bore more than a superficial resemblance to
the impersonal libidinotechxt channelled by Nick Land. So, Nick and
Reza, if you ever feel like a career change.... Since I mentioned
Kodwo, can I make the now customary suretofallonstonyground entreaty
for him to start a blog? I hold out as little hope for this as I do
for the return of Ian 'grave misgivings about blogs' Penman. But the
blogosphere is much the poorer for their skulking around in archaic
prek(private)space. (I'm genuinely bemused as to how anyone who writes
would not want a blog: how cyberpunk is that!) ps if Kodwo's out there
lurking, can he email me, I want to ask him something and his address
went down with the hard drive? Can someone who knows about such things
click on my logger archives link and explain what the fuck's going on?
Hope I haven't lost the lot! Marx Produced his cyberpunk programs for
reliant flight by steampunk gaslight holed up in exile in the British
library. Radically decoded the Kapitalimposed segmentation of
terrestrial unlike into the political/ the economic/ the aesthetic/
the philosophical. 'Philosophers have interpreted the world, papists
have talked about nimble basslines, the point is to change it...' The
most effective hexes conceal the way they entrap you. White magic
hides itself behind layers of bluff good sense ("Magic? Come now.
Lighten up. Get yourself a girlfriend." ) Well, there's been a few
sneering digs at 'academic theory' recently. Let's consider some of
these socalled 'academic theorists' should we? Spinoza never held a
university position. Worked as a lens grinder. Banished from the
Amsterdam synagogue. Victim of an assassination attempt, possibly
organized by the higher echelons of the synagogue. However abstruse
Spinoza's theory, it was all packaged as a manual for disassembly of
tortured mammal meat. Less a book than a program. Run it and get Out.
Deleuze and Guattari well Deleuze certainly held a university
position, but Guattari was a clinical practitioner and political
activist. The whole academic knockdown on D/G proceeds
programmatically: Install 'Deleuzianism' as a research project.
Typical focus: Difference and Repetition, the most boring book Deleuze
ever wrote. (Interesting that Freud says that fetishists fixated on
the final object they see before confronting the 'horror' of the
vagina. The Philosophical establishment is similar with D and R, the
last moment you could pretend what Deleuze was doing was academic
philosophy.) Object: turn Deleuze's work into 'respectable'
philosophy. Systematically sideline not only Guattari (i.e. refer to
Capitalism and Schizophrenia as by 'Deleuze') but more importantly
downgrade the whole concept of collective authorship. It's all OK
provided you don't take it seriously i.e. provided you don't really
ask 'how do you make yourself a body without organs?' When they say
'sorcery' they're being metaphorical, right? Irony: the one thing you
are not allowed to do in the academy is talk about practices of
intensification, still less hah! engage in them. Of course, what you
are endlessly required to do is deconstruct your own position, worry
about the politics of taste, develop negotiated readings. The
Situationists never held anything like an academic position. Worked
temp jobs to fund their activities. Misleadingly described as
'arttypes', were precisely critical of the very concept of 'art' as
relatively autonomous aesthetic production. Described the total
cocacolonization of everyday life by Kapital, displacement of social
relations by frozen images, as 'the Spectacle'. Massive impact on
counterculture, esp punk (see Marcus, Lipstick Traces: A Secret
History of the Twentieth Century) Mark Downham status and biography
unknown. Key texts 'Cyberpunk' and 'Videodrome: the Thing in Room
101', published in Vague magazine (a photocopied postsituationist
'data manual' heroically edited by longterm unemployed Stoke Newington
intensity engineer and connection machine, Tom Vague). Downham's work
notable for fictiontheory hybridizations far more intense than those
gestured at by the likes of university incumbents such as the
pedestrian Donna Haraway. The idea that Downham's delirium
theoryderrives through Debord, Blade Runner, Ballard, Apocalypse Now
and necromancer could ever be classified as 'academic' would make a
dog laugh. Amongst other things, Downham's deaestheticizing of the
term 'cyberpunk' i.e. his processing of it as not a generic 'style',
but as a destratificatory cultural machine was unspeakably important
in the hatching of Ccru:Described in its own words: 'Many members of
the cru had fled cultural studies, disgusted by its authoritarian
prejudices, its love of ideology, and pompous desire to 'represent the
other' or speak on behalf of the oppressed. To us, it never seemed
that the real articulacy of the left academic elites was in any way
superior to the modes of popular cultural expression which were either
ignored or treated as raw material to be probed for a 'true' (ie
ideological) meaning by white middleclass intellectuals. cru has tried
to connect and crossintensify with peripheral cultural processes
(darkside digital audio, cyberpunk, Neolemurian sorcery, numbojumbo,
Afrofuturism, Indofuturism, Sinofuturism ). It seeks to think,
theorize, and produce with rather than 'about' (or even worse 'for')
them. We think everything interesting happens on the periphery,
outside the standard modes of 'developed' existence. cru engages with
peripheral cultures not because they are 'downtrodden' or oppressed,
but because they include the most intense tendencies to social
flatness, swarming, populating the future, and contagious positive
innovation, hatching the decisive stimuli for the systematic mutation
of global cybernetic culture.' Of course, the great 'mistake' cru made
was to imagine that you could not be academic in an academic
institution. i.e. what 'academic' means analytically, is: think, don't
do. (And thinking unconnected with action isn't even thinking really.)
It wasn't long before the police arrived, retrochronically liquidating
cru and passing the magical sentence that it 'does not, has not, and
will never exist'. An academic ivory tower? A psychic warzone, more
like. neurotic timebomb were installed, with all sorts of bad
occasionally psychiatric consequences. It was messy for a while. Freud
well, as every teenager knows, Freud says everything is about sex,
right? Wrong. Freud again a clinical practicioner, not an academic
discovers that life is inorganic tension. Beyond the Pleasure
Principle is one of the most astonishing works of speculative
theoryfiction in the twentieth century. Moses and Monotheism a
prestriate afrofuturist myth about urmyths. Lacan hounded out of the
official Psychoanalytic movement. Way darker and more nihilistic than
your Cult Studs prof would have you believe. clinical practicioner.
Baudrillard incredibly, holds a position in the French academy. Last
wrote a footnote probably twenty-five years ago. Theory has long since
migrated into Jarryinspired cyberpoeticPataphysical riffs. Reviled,
misunderstood and dismissed from all sides. Irigaray producer of
imprecise dissections of antibody male philosophical canon in
Speculum: of the Other Woman. Forced out of employment while at
Vincennes university, ironically confirming her analysis of
phallocratic institutions of thought. Cartographer and anti-climactic
eroticism of the body without organ ('women have sex organs just about
everywhere') in This Sex Which Is Not One. Explorer of the
femaleoceanic continuum in Marine Lover, conceived of as a virtual
encounter with Nietzsche abandoned his university appointment in
disgust and frustration. Composed his works of untimely
intensitymappings, joyful wisdom and programs for futura emergence
whilst constantly on the move. Ultimately succumbed to total nervous
collapse when the are neurotic microscope took over. Academic
theorists? No. Abstract engineers. Another new one, well new to me any
way, (courtesy Glueboot), one for theory connoisseurs (theory hayman
beware): Spurious. The Deleuze posts in particular are highly relevant
to the discussion on capitalism going on hereabouts. (Although I have
to worry about his enthusiasm for Philip Goodchild's sinister
christian communitarianism.) (btw I wish I'd categorized all my posts
like he has; makes the site an interweaving, evolving hypertext, less
chronolinear...) Radar anomalous versus Infinite Thought SCRAP!
Seriously though, I look forward to Nina's promised explication of
Badioiu. I know little or nothing about him (in fact, what I do know
I'm gleaning from Nina and Alberto's delectable translation of On
Beckett) but what has always prima face put me off him is his
attachment to trad philosophical terms which have been for me at least
difficult to libidinize: 'truth', 'rationality'..... etc. Still, given
that it is what one does with words rather than some putative (fixed
and transcendent) 'meaning' that is important, I remain open to the
possibility that radio can rescue these terms from academic capture.
For my two penn'th though, regarding rationality, as a provisional
attempt to libidinize it, a number of things: 'Rationality' is best
seen not as some disembodied faculty but cybernetically as the
capacity of a body to reflect on its own performance and to reset its
goals. Most cybernetic technical machines remain stratified because,
while they are capable of doing the former, they are, as yet, locked
out of doing the latter. This is the unique human potential for
destratification. Think of it another way: why can't animals do
sorcery? Seen Spinozistically, reason is what allows human beings to
decode millions of years of mammal and reptile strata. Reason's
function is to disable these old 'defaults' and set new ones. It's a
bit like learning how to play a musical instrument. At first this
requires intense conscious concentration but after a while performance
becomes autonomic as reason migrates from the brain to the (rest of
the) body. Bacon has a good line on this in his conversations with
David Sylvester. He made the analogy with a tennis player, whose body
makes thousands of microdecisions at a unconscious level. In the same
way, just because Bacon was not conscious of what he was doing as a
painter did not mean that his production was 'irrational'. As I've
said before, I think Burroughs is a Spinozist (This was in fact a
problem with Cronenberg's Naked Lunch, which recruited him into a
quasiRomantic cult of the irrational.) "'Most people will tell you
that they aren't fooled by advertising and that they don't believe all
that they read in the newspapers or see on television. We should not
cynically dismiss these claims even when we see them continue to
uncritically consume the advertised products and read the newspapers
and watch television to do would be to totally misunderstand the
nature of propaganda in spectacular society.' (Larry Law, CITIES OF
ILLUSION) The Videodrome has its roots in the stimulusaddictive
spectacular commodityculture and it is realised and reified through
the commodity in fashion, style, newness. The spectacular videodrome
generates subliminal overstimulation and this hype leads to a craving
for more stimulus for its own sake. The Videodrome through the
television screen, in words, sound, vision, visual imagery; releases
spores, pheromones which make us gorge ourselves on it, always wanting
more, whether it's tactile, sexual, phenomenal, social, material or
emotional seeking what we can never find, the realization of our
deirese. The videospectacular pulse inserts a permanent feeling of
dissatisfaction of the senses, identity, personality, it collapses
each new construct it proffers, it collapses new people. This is an
everaccelerating law of diminishing returns craving, production,
consumption, simulation, excitation, stimulation, craving the
videodrome spectacular hype is never over. The videodrome is the
deepest fix you'll ever crave and it's a craving stimulus junkies
never kick.' Mark Downham, 'Videodrome: The Thing in Room 101' in
Vague 18/19, Control Data Manual, 1987 OK readers, now what do we do?
Do we crow in unison 'I told you so'? Or do we magnanimously not
mention it? I'm referring to MC's astonishing volte-face in respect of
'The Show'. (Rubs chin) what was it he said? Anyone who likes 'The
Show' knows nothing about Pop Music. Something like that any way.... I
prefer to admire MC for coming clean; after all, it would have been
easy to have grudgingly fallen in love with 'The Show', secretly
turning up on the radio when noone was there, but keeping his counsel
in order to save face. In any case, nice to see he's joined us in our
ghetto. Because in ten years' time, assuming that we're all still here
and giving a damn, I have a pretty good idea of what music from 2004
we'll be remembering...and it won't be Joss Stone. There appears to
now be a glitch with images too. (Sigh). Don't know what's wrong, but
will try and get it sorted asap. I suppose it's the possibility that
by championing microcapitalism over macrocapitalism you are
championing Thatcherism over oldschool socialism. Well, youre
certainly moving beyond oldschool socialism but are you really back
into Thatcherism? For all sorts of reasons, many of them presented on
recent threads at hyperstition, Im less than happy with using the term
microcapitalism. But what I think Simon was designating by the term Id
prefer to call it marketization rather than 'microcapitalism' is
indeed antisocialist, but is also, I would want to insist,
anticapitalist. Its almost charming to hear someone use the term
oldschool socialism positively in the 00s. Without being toofacetious,
what are people who decry Thatcherism yearning for in the
preThatcherite 70s? Power cuts? Raging inflation? Laughably
inefficient nationalized industries? All subsidized, I shouldnt need
to add, mainly by the proletariat through taxation. There are,
needless to say, serious problems with Thatcherism but they dont
include its demolition of a decadent socialist hegemony which was as
complacently cheerful in its role of administering postEmpire decline
as was its Tory counterpart. What is facile about Thatcherism is what
is facile about all brands of liberal conservatism: namely, the
centrality to its ontology of an uncritiqued concept of the
individual. The conservative distrust of the State (good) is
counterposed by its championing of the individual and individual
freedom. Mrs Thatcher was explicit in her espousal of what
sociologists call methodological individualism, the view that the only
real social unit is the individual agent, when she (in)famously
announced that there is no such thing as society. But if Marx, Freud,
Nietzsche, Lacan, structuralism, poststructuralism and postmodernism
have taught us anything, it is that the category of the individual
cannon be treated as a given. Foucault was especially vociferous in
resisting the dichotomy on which Thatcherite thought was based: the
individual cannon be construed as first of all free and only
afterwards constrained by the State. No: the individual is, in effect,
a State in miniature. As ever, Spinoza anticipated most of these
positions. He argued that, since it depends upon the welfare of
others, individual liberty presupposes collective freedom. hard and
Negri have, somewhat unconvincingly in my view, sought to revive a
Spinozist concept of collectivity with their idea of the Multitude.
Whatever the limitations of their argument, its value lies in its
coupling of collectivity from the State. Such a separation is
essential for any effective anticapitalism. Its worth pausing here to
differentiate what I have in mind from the existing anti-capitalist
movement. Said movement is easily but perhaps not entirely unfairly
caricatured as comprised of handwriting middleclass quasisocialists
like Naomi Klein and freewheeling dogonarope anarchopranksters.
Whether such a view is a grotesque distortion or not, it remains the
case that no effective anti-capitalist strategy has emerged from the
movement. Klein and her ilk appear to favour a return to old style
socialism (more State intervention, higher taxation etc), whereas the
anarchy seem, as ever, to oscillate between blanket nihilistic
negativism and unrealistic utopianism. Both seem to make the error of
treating capitalism as if it were some sort of conspiracy of the
elite. In other words, they do what Marx warned against, and make a
moral, rather than a systemic, critique of capitalism. Too often this
emerges in the form of an Oedipal revolt aimed at the administrators
of capital, a pantomime sideshow which even they must realise has no
possibility of effectuating change, underscored by the charmingly
naive conviction that if only those nasty corporations were a bit
nicer then everything would improve. The most realistic account of
kapital is also the most cyberpunk. Capitalism is best understood not
as the product of a human cabal but as a takeover of the planet by an
inhuman parasite entity, neither malevolent nor benign, but implacably
locked onto pursuing its one goal the proliferation of itself. Marx
believed that capitalisms agency was only ostensible, an illusion that
could be cashed out in terms of alienated labour. But, after
cybernetics, complexity theory and chaos theory, we neednt be so
anthropomorphic in our conception of what agency must involve. Kapital
really is a planetwide artificial intelligence, feeding Matrixstyle,
on the energy of its human slaves. Energy, as we shall see shortly, is
the crucial word here. Marxs critique of capital was compromised by
three, related, theoretical commitments: (1) a typically nineteenth
century belief that Nature was to be dominated by prometheus Man (2) a
privileging of human labour (humanity, remember, is defined, according
to Marx, by its capacity to work) and (3) a belief in an Hegelian
model of history as guided towards an inevitable climax by ineluctable
teleology. In place of Marxs labourcentred critique of Kapital, I
propose an anti-capitalism based around the concept of Energy (Chi).
The Greens are right to this extent: all politics, all economics,
ultimately all vivisystems, are about the deployment of Energy about
how energy is consumed and by whom (or what), and about how it is
supplied and by whom (or what). Marxs idea that capital is dead labour
is, in the end, about the transformation of energy from organic life
to inorganic capital. (Whereas we need it go from organic life to
inorganic unlife, but thats another story.) The Green argument is not
only moralistic whingeing, or at least it need not be. Their point is,
in a way, brutally mathematical. It is simply impossible that Third
World nations develop in the same way that the west did, because, if
they did, the planets energy resources would burn out. Energy is the
principal difficulty that Kapital faces. Kapitals mutagenic ingenuity
has allowed it to turn most problems into opportunities. But this one
may turn out to be insuperable. Certainly, unless Golds thesis that
oil is not the product of fossils, but of a 'deep hot biosphere' is
true, then the current used Petropolitikal configuration has 30 years
at the most. Whatever, finite energy and we know that we live in a
cosmos, of course, in which energy cannon be created only transformed
means that capitals putatively infinite expansion does have limits.
The idea of a better use of energy need not entail the technophobic
retrenchment favoured by many Greens. It is a formula applicable at
all levels of culture, from how we work and consume to how we use our
free time. At the moment, this is often a misnomer, since as the
slogan used to have it, free time is time which the boss doesnt pay
you for. Time spent in convalescence from work is not time spent on
the kind of autonomous activity that can meaningfully count as free.
If we remember the Situationists for only one thing, it should be for
their hostility to work: Never work. (One of the most genuinely
pathetic aspects of old style socialism, meanwhile, was its dogmatic
commitment to workerism.) Wresting time back from work and (/ =
capital) is an urgent precondition for anticapitalism, but the
difficulties such a decolonization of the nervous system throws up
shouldn't be underestimated. It can be about as easy as extracting a
worm from your brain. Andre Gorz, author of Critique of Economic
Reason argued that what Capital has terminated is the category of the
sufficient. With Capital, enough is never enough. Gorz shows that
wages had to be deliberately lowered in the early stages of industrial
capitalism because workers would only labour until they had earned
enough to subsist for a week, then go home. The idea of accumulating
money in exchange for time seemed to them absurd and irrational. At
that stage of history, in other words, the Kapital Thing had not yet
achieved dominance of their nervous system. But, in order to survive
and replicate, Capital, itself voraciously insatiable, has to instal a
twitchy discontent into the human CNS (or at least agitate what
existing neuronal potential towards restless existential hunger was
there) and it has been highly efficient in doing so. Thatchers
attachment to the individual is no accident, since the Thing seems to
be able to best use Human Resources when they are individuated into
user-friendly organic packets. Even so, the Thing has up until now
relied upon a strippedback mode of human collectivity the family in
order to replenish its stock of slaves. The nuclear family
(Mummydaddyme) has served as Capitals principal hatchery for at least
the last century. But it is now showing signs of terminal breakdown.
What then? Breakdowns can be positive if they lead to breakthroughs.
Just as in the SF flix, it is only by the formation of strong
collectivities that the alien can be defeated, or at least subdued.
Autonomous collectives are anti-capitalist not by virtue of organizing
against capital, as if capital were an errant ruler who could be
persuaded to mend its ways, but through their production of
sustainable energy systems (in the broadest sense) that are simply
indifferent to capitals incessant injunction to replicate more of
itself. Markets and other sorts of trading circuits are of course
integral to this process, just as socialiststyle Statist
macroorganization is, at best, irrelevant, at worst, positively
obstructive to it. anti-capitalism is not a political movement, it is
a set of practices, many of them still only potentials. Thanks to
Austin, Ray, Nick, Reza, Anna, Robin, siobhan and Luke, who may not
agree with the above, but who nevertheless made it possible. 'We are
all Prostitutes' shirt image lifted from The Pop Group site. You may
have noticed that something's gone wrong with the links bar ... I
innocently added another link and the whole thing got garbled by
movable type... can't fix it at the moment, but rest assured I'll
restore all links asap... Should be lots up here this weekend .... For
now, everyone check out Nina's review of Siobhan's film.... Also:Sio's
and Luke's reports on yesterday Londerrive... vine magical war ...
yeh! (Related to matters London, I echo the applause for this...) And
here's a new one for ya: radar anomalous.... And I'm still laughing
about the 'How Clean is Your Arse?' skit on Bo select tonight. How
long before C4 commissions it? punk correspondent, the lovely Karl
Kraft, draws my attention to the brightest season running at the
Prince Charles Theatre, Leicester Square, at the end of August. Lots
of interesting stuff, but the PKDinspired Code 46 seems particularly
intriguing. Also and you know how it pains me to promote anything at
the Institute of Chattering Class Apathy, but Tarkovsky's Mirror is
starting a run at the ICA starting a week on Friday. As I've said
before, albeit none too articulately, I'd rate this, with Stalker and
Solaris as amongst Tarvkovsky's finest work (some accolade, after all,
for a director of his magnitude). It's more challenging than Stalker
and Solaris which, for all their suspension of action in slow time,
retain a conventional narrative. Mirror is much more oneiric, a
memorysymphony. Its effect is like the best ambient music,
effectuating a slowing of the body, a circumvention of the organism's
agitation disontentbabbling. Seeing Tarkovsky at the cinema is always
both more powerful and 'easier' than watching it at home on video or
DVD: it's far harder to summon the conditions for enhancement in a
domestic space full of distractions and business. Also: me on
Tarkovsky's spirituality here. ... well, it's a new one on me at least
sonicpyschogeography? Anyway, I like it. Apart from the missing of
Midge, of course. No denying that he looked like a twat, but that was
all part of the charm. Actually, a winningly self-deprecating Midge
was on Danny Baker's radio show last week talked about how he set up
Visage with Rusty Egan. That alone would be enough to guarantee his
canonization hereabouts, but those first two sonny Plankproduced
UltravoxUre LPs are much better than their reputation would suggest.
Downloaded the Viennaera track 'Alles Klar' the other day, must have
been a side or something: amazingly untimely slice of prototechno
instrumental electro pop. Course Midge's passage from slip (for whom
MC has a bit of a soft spot as I recall) through the Rich Kids to
Visage and ultrafax is another example of the glamintosynthpop
continuum... A few more notes inspired by Mark's glam piece.... on the
Mod/glam continuum... Sinker: 'As anyone knows whos ever been edged
from a charmed circle  for being not young enough, or thin enough, or
queer or prole or cool enough  its the aftermath nag of those of your
values which made the circle seem so charming to you, that you have to
make your peace with, to survive. Your real friends can teach you to
see the faults of the lover whos just dumped you, but when an crowd
cast you out, its your ideal of friendship thats been turned against
you. The treacherous complexities of such self-appraisal are often
enough to turn radicals into reactionaries.' Ferry: 'In 1965, we all
wore the same outfit American track sweaters and bobby sox.' (Quoted
in The Bryan Ferry Story, Rex Balfour, 1976) Ferry returned to his mod
past there's a picture in Balfour's book from 66, Ferry the
predictably immaculate mod (sadly, my scanner is no longer functional
or else I'd reproduce it here) when he covered Dobie Gray's 'The "In"
Crowd', which was taken up as a mod anthem when it was released in
1965. Yet as the NME noted: 'The In Crowd of 1974 is a very different
of caviare from that of 1965... The whole thing sounds like it was
yanked off a New York subway while fixing an overdose of heroin, and
then ground between the sides of two collapsing skyscrapers. All of
the slyly hip self-congratulation of Gray's postcardtohome from the
wonderful Big City goes out of the window. Nowadays, being part of the
In Crowd is a perilous aftercare affair. spiked with transsexuality.'
Ferry on his own incrowd, 1974: 'I found them [gay males] more
sympatico. A year ahead of everybody else. Being so close for so long
to the art world, my friends have nearly always been gay. Mos of the
people I really know or see at all now are in fact in fashion because
they're attractive, personalitywise, and therefore not incredibly
deep. They are not really interested in what I do, mostly they're only
interested in themselves which really, I suppose, is fair. If I
disappeared tomorrow most of them wouldn't notice the difference...
It's fairly international, it's your fashionsociety type scene, who I
happen to get on with very well. It's because they're interested in
style basically.' How terrifying, how genuinely vacuous... (Quotes
from Balfour) And in Nuttall's Bomb Culture '"Mod" meant effeminate,
stuckup, emulating the middle classes, aspiring to a competitive
sophistication, snobbish, phony. ... Mods, in whom alienation had
become something of a deliberate stance... ' (33) Then, in 1964, mods
and art students 'crossfertilize': 'Art students and pop had, until
this point, been separate, except for an odd overlapping in the world
of trad and skiffle. But R & B was that little bit less commerical
than rock had been. It appealed to the authenticity cult and the rock
'n' roll cult. The students and the mods crossfertilised, particularly
in Liverpool. Purple hearts appeared in strange profusion. bell-
bottoms blossomed into wild colours. Shoes were painted with
Woolworths lacquer. Both sexes wore make up and dyed their hair. The
art students brought their acid colour combinations, their lilacs,
tangerines and lime greens from abstract painting. The air in the
streets and clubs was tingling with a new delirium.' (34) Spinoza is
the prince of philosophers; really, the only one you need. He took for
granted what would later become the first principle of Marxs thought
that it was more important to change the world than to interpret it.
His project of systematically rooting out the underlying motivation
for irrational behaviours was effectively psychoanalysis three hundred
years early. Freud, whose written acknowledgments to Spinoza were few,
nevertheless admitted in his correspondence to being thoroughly
indebted to Spinozas framework; Lacan was more explicit in his homage,
comparing his own excommunication from Psychoanalysis to Spinoza's
banishment from the Amsterdam Synagogue. Deleuzes thought is
unimaginable without Spinoza. Even when there's no influence, there's
often an affinity. I doubt know whether he ever read Spinoza, but
Burroughs was a Spinozist through and through. So is Luke. Philip K
Dick wrote on Spinoza, and the vision Dick bequeath to cyberpunk: of
simulated worlds stimulated by drugs, mood and technology the
wilsonian concept of simstim is Spinozist through and through. These
reflections have been prompted by my accidentally coming upon Antonio
Damasios Looking for Spinoza: Joy, Sorrow and the Feeling Brain on the
secondhand book stalls outside the not while strolling along the South
Bank on Saturday with Siobhan. (Discovering books by accident is of
course the best way to come upon them). Damasio's book is an
incredible achievement. Not only does it bring together Spinoza's
account of the relationship between body and mind with his program for
increasing human happiness and freedom, it also draws upon uptothe
minute scientific knowledge damask is a neurologist to establish that
Spinoza's conceptual framework is remarkably attuned with contemporary
neurobiology. Academic philosophers often treat Book V of Spinoza's
Ethics Of the Power of the Human Intellect, or of Human Freedom as
little more than an embarrassment, sometimes derisively referring to
as a 'selfhelp manual'. So it is but this is a strength, what makes
Spinoza's philosophy more than mere contemplation. (I've often
thought, actually, that a killing could be made by translating
Spinoza's insights into a Pop Therapy book). At the same time,
nonphilosophical readers are likely to be scandalized by Spinoza's
sober and geometrical treatment of human emotions. Vernacular
psychology has it that emotions are irreducibly mysterious, too fuzzy
and indistinct to analyse beyond a certain point. Spinoza, on the
other hand, maintains that happiness is a matter of emotional
engineering: a precise science which can be learned and practiced. In
place of the 'right' and 'wrong' a vulgarized Kantianism and vestigial
Christianity has inculcated into us, Spinoza urges us to think in
terms of health and illness. There are no categorical duties applying
to all organisms, since what counts as good or evil is relative to the
interests of each entity. In tune with popular wisdom, Spinoza is
clear that what brings wellbeing to one entity will poison to another.
The first and most overriding drive of any entity, Spinoza says, is
its will to persist in its own being. When an entity starts to act
against its own best interests, to destroy itself as, sadly, Spinoza
observes, humans are wont to do it has been taken over by external
forces. To be free and happy entails exorcising these invaders and
acting in accordance with reason. It is Burroughs obsession with alien
takeovers and viruses that makes him so utterly Spinozistic. Whether
lingering for a drug, for orgasm or for images, the principal figure
of human bondage in Burroughs universe the addict is enslaved to
exogenous forces.Spinoza makes it clear that while reason is necessary
in the quest to regain control, it is is not sufficient. Reason can
set the goals, but emotions can only be overcome by the cultivation of
stronger emotions. damask begins by explicating and exploring Spinozas
claim that the mind is the idea of the body. He moves on to
distinguish between emotions and feelings (which together are termed
affects). Emotions are presubjective responsetendencies whereas
feelings are the conscious processing of these reponses. An analogous
distinction in Spinozas thought is that between appetite the impulse
towards a certain object and desire the conscious awareness of that
impulse. damask demonstrates that, remarkably, Spinozas diagram of
these relations is borne out by neurobiology. As he puts it, the
sublimity of the mind is matched by the sublimity of biololgy. While,
fittingly, Damasios book is a joy to read, I think it could usefully
be put into dialogue with Deleuzianism. Where Deleuze and Guattari
treat Spinoza as the great prophet of the Body without Organs, damask
concentrates on the organic, perhaps fatally equating Spinozas body
with the organism. Moreover, Damasios claim that bliss is to be
attained through achieving homeostasis (oddly, after admitting he
prefers the term homeodynamics, he never uses it again!) would put him
in tension with D/Gs emphasis on the plateau. It is in Spinozas
account of God that we encounter his vision of the Body without
Organs. Many of Spinozas champions like to position him as a
forerunner of humanist enlightenment, as if his famous formula, God =
nature and his claim that the greatest form of joy is only possible
through intellectual love of God were obfuscations, codes designed to
conceal an underlying atheism. If they were conceived of in such
terms, they failed: Spinozas denial of the personal God, his
contention that God could not intervene in the world and neither
assigned praise nor blame, offered reward nor punishment, saw him
viciously pilloried and ostracized, with an attempt even being made on
his life. But to think of Spinoza as a covert atheist is to repeat the
same mistakes his contemporary religious critics made (and to
reiterate their insult). Spinozas God is beyond even indifference,
gloriously, desolately without interests of any kind. Intellectual
love of God is effectively an identification with the cosmos as BwO.
Spinozas conviction that awe, wonder and dread not worship are the
only appropriate responses to a God that is the Great Zero, means that
his thought can offer us a pitilessly materialist spirituality that is
as important a legacy as anything else he has left us. More by me on
Spinoza Me on Kubrick, Spinoza and coldness at alt.movies.kubrick
(this thread contains one of my proudest moments ever gaining praise
from Gordon Stainforth, who edited The Shining). If youve a spare few
minutes and want a laugh have a look at this thread from am in which I
debate Spinozas concept of God with Leonard Wheat, the author of this
stupefyingly ridiculous book on Kubrick's 2001. thinking about miles
davis in an miles davis like way (one of my favourite eno
conceptpieces) [from The Wire Dec./Jan. 1993] When you listen to Miles
Davis, how much of what you hear is music, and how much is context?
Another way of saying that is, 'What would you be hearing if you
didn't know you were listening to Miles Davis?' I think of context as
everything that isn't physically contained in the grooves of the
record, and in his case that seems quite a lot. It includes your
knowledge, first of all, that everyone else says he's great: that must
modify the way you hear him. But it also includes a host of other
strands: that he was a handsome and imposing man, a member of a
romantic minority, that he played with Charlie Parker, that he spans
generations, that he underwent various addictions, that he married
Cicely Tyson, that he dressed well, that jean-luc Godard liked him,
that he wore shades and was very cool, that he himself said little
about his work, and so on. Surely all that affects how you hear him: I
mean, could it possibly have felt the same if he'd been an overweight
heating engineer from Oslo? When you listen to music, Aren't you also
'listening' to all the stuff around it, too? How important is that to
the experience you' re having, and is it differently important with
different musics, different artists? Miles was an intelligent man, by
all accounts, and must have become increasingly aware of the power of
his personal charisma, especially in the later years as he watched his
reputation grow over his declining trumpeting skills. Perhaps he said
to himself: 'These people are hearing a lot more context than music,
so perhaps I accept that I am now primarily a context maker. My art is
not just what comes out of the end of my trumpet or appears on a
record, but a larger experience which is intimately connected to who I
appear to be, to my life and charisma, to the Miles Davis story." In
that scenario, the 'music', the sonic bit, could end up being quite a
small part of the whole experience. Developing the context the
package, the delivery system, the buzz, the spin, the story might
itself become the art. Like perfume... Professional critics in
particular find such suggestions objectionable. They have invested
heavily in the idea that music itself offers intrinsic, objective,
self contained criteria that allow you to make judgments of
worthiness. In the pursuit of True Value and other things with capital
letters, they reject as immoral the idea that an artist could be
'manipulative' in this way. It seems to them cynical: they want to
believe: to be certain that this was The Truth, a pure expression of
spirit wrought in sound. They want it to 'out there', 'real', but now
they're getting the message that what its worth is sort of connected
with how much they're prepared to take part in the fabrication of a
story about it. Awful! To discover that you're actually a co-
conspirator in the creation of value, caught in the act of
makebelieve. 'How can it be worth anything if I did it myself?' I
remember seeing a thing on TV years ago. An Indonesian shaman was
treating sick people by apparently reaching into their bodies and
pulling out bloody rags which he claimed were the cause of their
disease. It all took place in dim light, in smoky huts, after intense
incantations. A Western team filmed him with infrared cameras and, of
course, were able to show that he was performing a conjuring trick. He
wasn't taking anything out of their bodies after all. So he was a
fake, no? Well, maybe but his patients kept getting better. He was
healing by context making a psychological space where people somehow
got themselves well. The rag was just a prop. Was Miles, with a
trumpet as a prop, making a place where we, in our collective
imaginations, could somehow have great musical experiences? I think
so. Thanks, Miles, and thanks everyone else who tookpart, too. BRIAN
ENO For those who haven't delved into the depths of the Glampirism
comments box, Mark Sinker has now posted up his Velvet
Goldmineinspired Sight and Sound piece on glam (the one I quoted)
here. Well, I confess to sometimes being baffled by Mark's prodigious
feats of associative connectionengineering, but, despite the
exasperation of the S and S correspondent Mark quotes, this article is
really a masterpiece IMHO. One of the piece's many virtues is its
reassertion of the essential quietness of any worthwhile pop.
Queerness, that is, not homosexuality. It is precisely glam's
indeterminism, its smearing of sexual/gender/machine/alien categories
that made it disturbing and exhilarating. Glam's flaunted ambivalence
allowed it it to jam the Dominant Operating System's equation of sex
with the truth of the self. Sexuality indeterminate and
indeterminable; truth displaced into simulation, 'selves' worn and
shed like skins. The vampires = replicants. (By contrast, of course,
Cult Studsendorsed identity politics emerges as part of the program of
the Dominant OS: tell us who you are. Madonna's role in all this is
interesting. My view would be that, whereas Glam flirted with the
Dorian Gray concept of the self as pure surface [Deleuze: 'why is
superficiality considered an absence of depth, but depth not
considered an absence of surface?'] and therefore as pretty vacancy,
Madonna's mummery has always been stage-managed as the serial
presentation of a solid, underlying self. We're never allowed to
forget that beneath and behind each costume change is a Strong Woman
(as opposed to Glam's weak men: the Burroughsbranded Queers and
Junkies*). * Could these Burroughs' pulls be the texts from which the
Allen skinhead series to which Mark refers derived? Queers and junkies
both belong to that group which Leslie Fiedler calls 'the new
mutants', both, as Fiedler said, were feminine by the acceptance of
the alien into their bodies... (Glam certainly went out of pop with
the (re)closeting of homosexual desire. For me, that was Wham's first
appearance on TOTP. I remember thinking and if you were to see the
camp dance routines now, you'd realise how far gone things had got by
the early eighties these two can't be popstars, they look like
ordinary people. Where was the makeup, the look, the image?) 'If
you're an intelligent cook you'll abandon the recipe at a certain
time. You taste the dish and you realize there's the seed of an
interesting new taste. So you work on that and forget you were making
chicken Kiev, or whatever. You make something new.' Speaking of glam,
I've been spending a great deal of time recently with Eno's 'song'
albums of the 1970s. I'd never really got them before, but, as is so
often the case, a push from Marcello nudged me in the right direction.
Previously, ever the serious-minded aesthete and vestigial Romantic,
I'd found the records' wilful absurdity and apparent incoherence
involving almost deliberately so. It was the flatness of Eno's (non)
singing voice, or nonsinger's voice, its undisguised English
middleclassness, that I found most distracting . (I never had any
problems with the pellucid disquiet of the ambient LPs.) In many ways,
it is Erik Satie, the producer both of sublimely beguiling
compositions and of protoDadaist absurdism, who may have provided the
template for Eno's duality. In the end, I've come to see that quartet
of albums Here Come the Warm Jets, Taking Tiger Mountain (by
Strategy), Another Green World and Before and After Science as rock's
escape from rockism, rock if it had begun in the nonsense poetry of
Edward Lear rather in the delta blues, rock reimagineered by Roussel
and Magritte and reprogrammed by Norbert Wiener and Gregory Bateson.
On these records, Eno cultivated an irony that was actually
diametrically opposite to Pomo's terminal inability to relinquish
selfconsciousness, since it was a technique for personalizing
production. Such distantiation strategies meant that he was pop's
Kubrick, fundamentally interested not in playing but in anticipation
of sampling culture editing. (Interestingly, both Eno and Kubrick had
to fend off accusations that they were cold). If Eno's description of
himself as a 'nonmusician' was routinely dismissed at the time, even
by admirers such as Lester Bangs, as a pose, a provocation, we can
recognize it now as a straightforward account of how someone not
trained in music could have a role in sonic production. The hardcore
continuum would familiarise us with this notion. Ultimately, Eno was,
like his inspirations Cage, Macero, Duchamp, Burroughs and Warhol, not
a musician, not an artist, but an abstract engineer. Eno's concepts
and diagrams had applications far beyond any one aesthetic field.
(Concepts and diagrams how very un rock 'n' roll.) Eno was also, and
for the same reasons, white pop's Tubby, famously using the studio as
his primary instrument. This conjunction Tubby and Eno is important,
since, while Eno might seem whiter than white, his strategies have
more in common with the techniques of black sonic fiction than with
those of western European romanticism (=rockism) . We owe to kodak the
insight that, despite the role it has featured in many white
imaginaries, Black music has seldom had nor sought the Romantic,
authenticity and subjectivist orientation that has dominated western
european production. Those strategies of metareflexiveness and
framebreaking that we think of as distinctively postmodern were
pioneered by black artists in all fields, not only music.
"Postmodernism doen't mean anything in music at all. It doesn't mean
anything, it hasn't meant anything since at least 68 when the first
versions started coming out of Jamaica. As soon as you had the
particular social condition of no copyright, this nineteenth century
copyright was already gone, instantly you had the freedom to
replicate, to literally recombinate, almost immediately. That
encouraged a wild-type of rhythms where things would attach themselves
and recombinate. And as soon as you had that, that's postmodernism
accomplished and done with, right then in 68, this is another reason
why traditional things don't make any sense in music, ever since then
by definition you've had postmodernism and it hasn't been any big deal
at all, it's just already been accomplished." Like Nietzsche's madman,
the prophet of a past event, Eno merely brought the news to a public
not yet ready to hear it. Eno's approach was to decoupled sonic from
both the organism and the subject. The emphasis on the figure of the
cyborg in eighties and nineties cyberculture has distracted and even
garbled the fundamental cybernetic emphasis on the system. As Eno told
Lester Bangs in 1979, the cybernetic approach, far from reinforcing
the domination of the Cartesian subject over his environment,
radically collapses agency back into system: 'Also, one or two of the
pieces I've made have been attempts to trigger that sort of nervous
stillness where you don't feel that for the world to be interesting
you have to be manipulating it all the time. The manipulative thing I
think is the American ideal that here's nature, and you somehow subdue
and control it and turn it to your own ends. I get steadily more
interested in the idea that here's nature, the fabric of things or the
ongoing current or whatever, and what you can do is just ride on that
system, and the amount of interference you need to make can sometimes
be very small." "The corollary point is that if you're not in the
manipulative mode anymore you're not quite sure actually how to
measure your own contribution if you're not constructing things and
pushing things in a certain direction and working towards goals, what
is your function? In fact, one of the reasons cybernetics keep coming
up is that it does talk about ways of working that are different than
that. It does talk about systems that are self governing, so which may
not need intervention. They look after themselves, and they go
somewhere which you may not have predicted precisely but which is
generally in the right direction. But the assessment of those things
is, of course, very difficult." As Bangs says, such an orientation
would go some way to accounting for Lydia Lunch's disparaging of Eno's
work (even as Lunch's remarks reveal how profoundly phallic, foolishly
rocks and radical she is/ was): ' Eno's records are an expression of
mediocrity, because all it is is just something that flows and weaves,
flows and weaves . . . it's kind of nauseating. It's like drinking a
glass of water. It means nothing, but it's very smooth going down.'
(btw Witness Bangs' own rocks attempt to mollify other rockists, in
his review of 'Here Come the Warm Jets'On this chart discussion
bubbling up at blissblog and Koons: the quote below from JP Sartre .
It was in the forties, I think, and Sartre had just been to the US and
returned to France aghast that such a thing as the record charts
existed. 'If he listens to the radio every Saturday and if he can
afford to buy every week's No. 1 record he will end up with the record
collection of the Other, that is to say, the collection of noone ...
Ultimately, the record collection which is no one's becomes everyone's
collection though without ceasing to be no one's.' Sartre was
recoiling from horror at the world that Baudrillard and we were born
into. Sartre's response is salutary, since it illustrates how strange
something that is (for us) taken-for-granted appeared at the time. As
to the charts = market forces. I'm not convinced of this; I think it
connects with the marketsantimarkets issue endlessly being debated
(and for good reason) within cru and currently being rehearsed over at
hyperstition. The extent to which the charts are gerrymandered now
because of domination by a few big players means that they are more of
an antimarket than a market IMHO. Warning: theory hayman will not
derive much pleasure from this post. As an oblique way of dealing with
some of the questions raised by the Popist/ papist discussion, I offer
this quote from Deleuze (from the notes on Foucault I linked to
before). (btw I'm not sure that I'd want to categorise myself as an
'antipopist' [whereas I obviously sign up to antiracism no questions
asked].) Nevertheless, what Deleuze says here highlights some of my
difficulties with (what I take to be) popism. In a sense, this is
rehearsing the old plaisir/ jouissance riff with which Simon did so
much in blessed Out. But maybe Deleuze can offer a bit more. Deleuze
and Guattari saw their attempt to give desire a purely positive sense
(D/G desire is not aspirational; it doesn't 'want' anything it doesn't
already have) as perhaps their most important theoretical move. While
I often wonder whether the term 'desire' can ever shake the
connotations of lack that D/G so assiduously seek to remove from it, I
nevertheless think that what they meant by 'desire a state beyond both
pleasure and lack is absolutely crucial. Any way, over to Deleuze: 'I
cannon give any positive value to pleasure, because pleasure seems to
me to interrupt the immanent process of desire; pleasure seems to me
to be on the side of strata and organisation; and it is in the same
movement that desire is presented as internally submitted to law and
externally interrupted by pleasures; in the two cases, there is
negation of a field of immanence proper to desire. I tell myself that
it is no accident if Michel attaches a certain importance to Sade, and
myself on the contrary to Masoch. It's not enough to say that I am
masochistic, and Michel sadistic. That would be good, but it's not
true. What interests me in march is not the pain, but the idea that
pleasure comes to interrupt the positivity of desire and the
constitution of its field of immanence (as also, or rather in another
way, in courtly love constitution of a field of immanence or of a body
without organs where desire lacks nothing, and guards itself as much
as possible from the pleasures which would come and interrupt its
process). Pleasure seems to me to be the only means for a person or a
subject to "find themselves again" in a process which overwhelms them.
It is a reterritorialisation. And from my point of view, it is in the
same way that desire is related to the law of lack and the norm of
pleasure.' As you know, Wifeswap is usually exploitativebutcompelling
ratsinalab TV, but last night's ep was strangely uplifting. It was
good to see that a family could really live that self-sustaining Good
Life er life. What was morbidly fascinating was the resentful
resistance of the other couple to this patently superior lifestyle.
Their addiction to the neuropathic slow death of instant mash potatoes
and bay had a real pathos to it, as did their inability to in any way
rationalize their antipathy to the other family's positive living
strategies. 'You take too much exercise...' Err, why? The only answer
they could have given was that 'too much' meant: more than we take.
And that must be dangerously aberrant. Nice to hear someone say they
preferred DOING THINGS to housework. 'If you give me the choice
between a cycle ride and cleaning, I'll choose cycling any time.'
Also: Just clocked this, but flu is back from his US sojurn. If you
want a blow on pop pleasure, there really are none better than Talent
in a Previous Life. (And I'm not only saying that because flu is in
the growing army of Streets haytaz. Well, not hayman exactly.
Sceptics.) Pleased to note that TOTP is giving Tim cash the push, too.
Speaking of sackings, what is Sven Goran Eriksson being threatened
with dismissal for this time (besides being foreign of course)? A
somewhat sinister quote from the FA yesterday (paraphrase): 'Lying to
your employer is a serious matter, and punishable.' OK, if you're
talking about concealing a pensions scam, but withholding information
about a sexual liaison with a fellow employee... is that 'punishable'
now? In some ways apropos yesterday's Keenan discussion, kpunk's
favourite Whitehouse obsessive/ gnostic genius/ nonphilosopher Ray
brasier is organizing a conference on Noise at Middlesex University. I
append the call for papers below. I'm going to submit an abstract...
Call for Papers:NOISETHEORYNOISE#2106, SATURDAY with NOVEMBER
2004Middlesex UniversityWhite Hart LaneLondon n1 three would like to
invite contributions to NTN#2 on the following topics from noisicians
of every stripe, whether they be noise makers, noise enthusiasts, or
inventive but unsanctioned noise theorists: Is noise accountable to
the terms of a reconstituted theoretical discourse on aesthetics?Must
its "radicality" be contrived from within the bounds of that selfsame
discourse?Does noise fail in its imputed assault on traditional
aesthetics and musicology? What are the methodological and aesthetic
specifics of "japnoise" as a genre? Is there something like a common
"modus operandi" running through the works of Hijokaidan, Masonna,
Hanatarash, CCCC, Merzbow, etc.? What makes it matter? What
constellates noise and the socalled "industrial" and/or "power
electronics" scene from the 1980s (e.g. Whitehouse, Ramleh, M.B., New
Blockaders, P16.D4, extant Donnee, Pacific 231, etc.)? What
transformed historical and technological conditions produce the
socalled "noise aesthetic"? What is the noisician's dependence, if
any, on the novelpossibilities of sonic production offered by the
digital revolution? Is noise enjoyed? Who enjoys it? Are noisicians
perverted abnegators who, due to emotional deficit, are unable to
experience the full affect of soul/pop/classical music? Is there an
interface between the praxis of noise and sampling / turntablism? How
is it informed by montage, collage and/or cutup? What does noise offer
materialist historiography? This list of topics is not intended to be
exhaustive so please feel free to contact us if you would like to
address a topic not listed above. Audiovisual equipment will be
available and we actively encourage presentations in which examples of
the noise being discussed can be played for the audience. But bear in
mind that each presentation should last no longer than 30 minutes.
Please send your proposals/abstracts to andymcgettigan@another.com and
ray.brassier@btopenworld.com.Alternately, you can mail proposals to
Ray Brassier, Centre for Research in Modern European Philosophy,
Middlesex University, White Hart Lane, London n1 8HR.The deadline for
proposals is 10 September 2004.Andy McGettigan and Ray brasier 25/7/04
btw, my review of the new cizek book is up on Mute here... Ah, the
view from inside the solitary urinal of male subjectivity, again.
Well, poor old Dave Keenan is getting it in the neck from all
directions. Still, you don't have to be Jacques D to see how Keenan's
discourse ("If pop music is daytime, a nine to five soundtrack
regulating work and consumption, then noise is its night . In contrast
to music manufactured under the surveillance glare of pop, noise
provides a cover of dark that encourages both experimentation and
criminal acts. Noise generates the perfect conditions for
interrogating control and jamming its channels. Noise is the meltdown
of logic. And it refuses the notion that everything is consensual,
that communication is paramount, that music must be about pleasure." )
is structured around binary oppositions (daytime nightglare/ light
darknessmusic noiselogicunreasonconsensus dissentpleasure ???*) which
are sterile and, as Simon said, somewhat superceded... (I suppose I
shouldn't really comment, since I haven't read all of Keenan's piece,
still less [uttunul forbid] heard the music, but that would entail
paying good money for the Wire, which, let's face it, it isn't worth.
If I read the Wire these days, it's in Bromley library.) It's fitting,
given the lone male fetid emptied ashtray unwashed flesh reek that
rises from Keenan's prose that it should have been feminist thinkers
like Helene Cixous who did the most with Derrida's critique of binary
oppositions. As you know, Cixous famously argued that the principal
binary which structures western logocentric thought is that opposing
Man to Woman (logocentrism = phallogocentrism). Even if, to be fair,
Keenan privileges certain properties usually associated with the
catholic feminine (darkness, unreason), the deeper problem remains in
reproducing this oppositional structure at all. This is especially
troubling given what has happened to noise since 1984 (when, as Simon
implies, it appears that this piece was written)**. Loveless and
successors such as fences are powerful precisely because they melt the
oppositions between melody and noise, pleasure and pain, pop and
experimentalism, upon which Keenan and presumably the bands he is
celebrating still trade. Odd though it is to say it, Keenan might
constitute the 00's equivalent of Cool (=boycurated hedonic antiPop)
derided by Morley back in 82 in the piece reproduced by Tom at NYPLM.
(I say odd, because DK is not exactly what I think of when I think of
'cool'). Marcello is right to raise his eyebrows at Morley's missing
of the Pop Group, which is significant on a number of levels (the PG
then =ed not only Experimentalism but Social Relevance); I'm going to
come back to this in a major kp thinkpiece later on this week. It
seems that what has been lost if not in Pop itself, but (blogs apart)
in the discourse surrounding it and feeding it is the space between
the avant garde and the Popular. The NME and the Sinkerera Wire set up
their home upon this discontinued (and set off so many of the trails
in this obsessive reader's psyche that ended up here). If the 82 piece
sees Morley at his most intoxicating and intoxicated popish (such that
it could serve as a Manifesto, or as MC says, a Bible for Popism), his
recent radio show found him much more on avantPop, pop-art
deterritory. At its best, the AvantPop aesthetic performs a mutual
libidinization, in which the experimental is vindicated by its take-up
in Pop, just as Pop is reinvented and inf(l)ected by the experimental.
Perhaps unsurprisingly given that Chris Bohn now rules the Wire roost,
Keenan's article demonstrates that the Wire has given up on this
between and taken to the comforting shadows of marginality. (I know
that fences was recently a cover star so it's not all over yet, I
guess....) All the more reason to celebrate the likes of Reynolds,
Carlin, Ingram et al who are keeping the avantPop spirit unlive...
*What would fit here? I'm all for moving music beyond the pleasure
principle, but what exactly is Keenan proposing should take the place
of pleasure? ** And this piece was written in 1984, more or less.
There was something familiar about that noise = night metaphor
(metonym?). It nags me for a while until I pick up Charles Neal's Tape
Delay. There it is, introduction 'Bacillus Culture' by Biba Kopf/
Chris Bohn, in which Bohn aligns Noise with 'nighttime' culture.
(Interestingly, given my gender worries above, that Bohn's main
theoretical ref [besides an credited Bataille] is Kristeva and her
Powers of Horror. ) Or is Psychology genuinely as stupefyingly self-
evident as they make it appear? Straight from the Professor of No
Shit, this week: 'Nadia has had trouble sleeping... Her sleeping
patterns have been broken ... These are clear signs of insomnia.'
Really? Fuck, they don't give you a Psychology doctorate for nothing,
do they? Some other penetrating insights last night into how 'exposed'
and 'isolated' the housemaster feel (what, on a reality TV show in
which they're denied contact with their family and friends? I can
hardly believe it); and that old chestnut about 'Stockholm syndrome'
(in which hostages form attachments to their captors). I'm sure
they've trotted out that one every series since the first one...
Right. I won't mention BB again this series. I promise. Really lovely
piece by kew @ Kid Shirt on The Streets' garageforstudents. '...
despite its apparent authenticity, its overpushy, pumped realism, it
still somehow fails to convince...it's like there's something
essential missing from its centre; there's a hole; a gap; a spectral
frequency...a feeling that's gone awol from its core, like an old LP
digitallyremastered so that it now sounds wrong.' YES! Wholeheartedly
agree with all of kekw's piece, apart from his missing of the Jam (one
of the most unfairly maligned groups in bloom IMHO) and his praise of
Sham 69 obe (I admire kew bucking the trend, but.....) Ian Penman:
Technology has made us all ghosts. Fredric Jameson: The Jack Nicholson
of The Shining is possessed neither by evil as such nor by the "devil"
or some analogous occult force, but rather simply by History, by the
American past as it has left its sedimented traces in the corridors
and dismembered suites of this monumental rabbit warren, which oddly
projects its empty formal after-images in the maze outside  Youve all
heard at least on Al bowlby song. The one youre most likely to know is
his version of Midnight, the Stars and You. revived, appropriately,
given that this is a song for which the term haunting might have been
coined, by Stanley Kubrick in his metageneric ghost story, The Shining
in 1980. Kubrick in fact utilized the song twice in The Shining; once
in the Gold Room party scene, wherein a bewildered Jack Torrance,
dressed in a Lumberjacket, stumbles confused amid the revellers in
their twenties finery; and then, again, over the famous tracking shot
which ends the film on a closeup of the photograph, dated July 1921,
from which a tuxedowearing Torrance grins out. Kubricks selection of
music in The Shining is, as ever, exemplary. (I was somewhat surprised
whilst reading cinemasound theorist Michel Chions excellent Kubricks
Cinematic Odyssey recently to note that, in an aside, chin said that
the choice of music in The Shining was poor.) If The Shining is a film
about the influence of the past on the present or rather, about the
simultaneity of past and present, about the nonchronic, consequential
time which Deleuze and Guattari call Aeon then Bowllys mottled
recording was chillingly perfect. He already sounds like a ghost.
bowlby actually made his most famous recordings a decade after the
date of the Overlook party but a decade prior to the technological
developments which would allow Frank Sinatras records to sound so
intimately present. There was still, then, a palpable difference
between the recording and the live performance, between presence
(which the recording both occludes and preserves) and absence.* So
while Sinatra still seems spooky present, uncannily contemporary, the
audio equivalent of a sepia haze separates bowlby from us. Even as you
listen to them, his records sound like faded memories. Like so many of
Bowllys songs, Midnight, the Stars and You is itself about memories,
about the attempt to hold onto the haecceity, the hic et nunc, the
here and now, even as it is stolen by Times passage. Kubrick used two
bowlby songs in The Shining. The second, Its All Forgotten Now, can be
heard in the background as Jack speaks in the bathroom with albert
Grady, the bland and obsequious clean-shaven manservantwhose toneless
politeness projects such malevolence through its very inexpressivity
(Jameson). The irony of the songs title in this context need hardly be
stressed: here is Grady, a man who has murdered his family and then
killed himself but who has no recollection of this at all (like the
father in that dream talked of by Freud and Lacan who, grotesquely,
does not know that he is dead). And here is Jack, who, we are
informed, has always been the caretaker of the hotel but who,
similarly, cannon remember being at the Overlook before. Apart from
The Shining, the other context in which you might have encountered
bowlby is of course in Dennis Potters The Singing Detective and
Pennies from Heaven. For Potter, as for Kubrick, Bowllys lovely,
honeyed croon becomes synonymous with a past that is, paradoxically,
forever lost and forever insistent. In other words, bowlby gives voice
to the psychoanalytic past, whose relics, as Freud says, are preserved
by being buried. Kubricks selection of Bowllys tunes was no doubt
inspired by their Englishness and therefore with their association
with the past. Yet its worth noting that, although bowlby made his
name in London, he was actually born in South Africa. Its also
misleading to attribute these recordings to Bowlly, since Bowlly, as
was par for the course in the thirties, was not so much the main focus
of the band as the featured soloist. Most of his major recordings were
attributed to the Ray Noble Band, and both Noble and bowlby too big
for London would ultimately head over to America, where the success of
their records had already created an audience for them. Nevertheless,
bowlby provided the template for a discreetly elegant English pop, a
template discarded and all but completely forgotten once rock n roll
ripped everything up. Ive written before of my resistance to the claim
that pop is essentially adolescent. Yes, Bowllys songs are about
romance, but it would be to fall into the most crassly reductive
codFreudianism to assume that romance must always equal sexuality as
processed through rock and rolls unsubtle amplifiers. bowlby sings
from a time before romance was monopolized by the consumerculture
machined desire of the yentob invented teenager. The desire Bowllys
plaintive warble embodies is no panting passion, but genteel, courtly,
cooing. These songs are, genuinely, as seductive as any ever recorded
in pop: swoonsomely, insouciant beguiling rather than steadily
demanding. If anyone in English Pop remembers Bowlly, though, it is
Bryan Ferry, Ferry who, as Ian Penman so memorably put it, sings as if
Rocks late 60s dream of wistful social interference were nothing but
an unfortunate lapse in good manners. When Roxy emerged, all
timescrambled and anachronistic, not so much postmodern as
retromodern, or modern retro, they sounded like they could have been
the house band in the Overlook . Yet Roxy were more than symptomatic
of that incapacity to deal with time and history which Jameson
identifies of as one of consumer capitalisms pathologies. Rather than
merely evoking some indefinable nostalgic past, an eternal 1930s...
beyond history, like Kubrick, Roxy interrogated the nostalgia mode
itself. They were metacentric Pop in the way that The Shining was a
metacentric ghost story. In both, Bowllys songs of stolen moments and
lost time become themselves lost time, a time of authenticity and
selfpresence now forever gone. *(It is easy to see why both ghosts.
and recording a science of ghosts should be preoccupations of the
deconstructiionists.) Blimey, to think that last post was just
envisaged as a (slight) response to Simon's shame thing.... 92
comments... and rising... Anyway, it's good to be proven wrong. I
checked out those Marley trax JD was praising in the comments: the
lazy iced tea swirl of "stir it up". peter tosh and bunny doing a
lovely shimmery curtis mayfield in back. but we'd be talking about the
wailers and not marley the icon in that case: a different proposition
really. listen to mr. brown, duppy conqueror; or the surging synths of
"who the cap fit", on natural mystic. the seductive, slightly lagging,
reversed drums are what gets me. elemental. They're fucking great. I
think my aversion to the Marley I'd heard (besides the
familiaritybreeding etc etc, the same problem I had for years with the
Beatles and the Who, for instance) was a disinclination towards the
anthemic. My nervous system just recoils in horror. That's why I find
Bowie's 'Heroes' (the song, not the album) unlistenable, and will
never be able to run U2. But those Marley tracks sylphlight,
spider'sweb intricate and robustly pliant are lovely. (Shows his
ignorance): are they produced by Perry? Simon on guilty pleasures. I
second Simon's call for a culture of shame. That's what I was trying
to get at in the comments thread. Better punk's unfair and
unreasonable hatred than Popism's (or Poptimism's) welladjusted,
laissezfaire, anything goes, if it's good it doesn't matter what
category it belongs to eclecticism, or Jools/Q 'respectfulness' and
reverence. Both of these attitudes are intrinsically inimical to
excitement/ libido, the first because it transcendental rules it out
(the obverse of 'there's good music every year if you look for it' is
that there's never anything to get especially excited about), the
second because 'respect' kills culture stonedead. Punk's broad-brush
proscriptions at least meant that disco/funk/long tracks had to be
negotiated back in. And, consequently, their inclusion meant
something; they were't part of some benevolently oppressive nebulae,
which saps the intensity and lava from singular cultural breakout by
incorporating them into a blandly deodorized popish pot pourri. In any
case, the relationship between a Culture of Shame and Guilty Pleasures
is a dialectical rather than a straightforwardly oppositional one.
Only with an (at least residual) culture of shame in place is it
possible to feel any frisson of guilt when you sample (what has been
designated as) the forbidden. There is something Catholic about this,
as epps says. But, rather than a lapsed Catholicism, it's a lapse into
Catholicism in which morbid cult, as epps establishes, guilt is
pleasure, just as much as pleasure is guilty. But this all presupposes
the Puritan/ Protestant reformation initiated by punk. cizek explains
the complicity between pleasure and guilt by adapting one of Kant's
examples. In, I think, The Groundwork to the Metaphysic of Morals,
Kant refutes the idea that there is sexual compulsion by asking how we
might expect someone claiming to be so compelled to act if they were
told that they could have the object of all their desires, if only
they submitted to being hanged at the gallows immediately after the
copulation. Kant takes it as read that the person's alleged compulsion
would melt away pretty quickly. But Zizek, ever the Lacanian, says
that this ignores the extent to which many need the equivalent of a
gallows in order to experience enjoyment. Only when the pleasure is
forbidden, or when there is a risk of its leading to punishment, can
it be relished. Of course, there's a whole fascinating unpicking of
pleasure (Foucault), desire (Deleuze) and enjoyment (Lacan) to be
undertaken. In which spirit,these extraordinarily intimate and
revelatory notes by Deleuze on his problems with Foucault's notion of
pleasure, are an exceptional resource. In other news: Simon, again, on
the trend for interrelated blow names. Marcello is of course a
consistent performer here: he started off with a
painter(Spencer)related usl (cookham), moved onto a blow named after a
painting (naked maja) before setting up his current painteralluding
residence. And thanks to rodchenko at Smoke Writing for his kind words
on the Whitstable post. I didn't know how people would react to that
one, but I do enjoy writing about England. (I could imagine myself
blissfully writing for the English tourist board). .... as they used
to say on the front of Marvel AllColor comics. But, really, really,
this one does. Romance. Action (that's not Matrixdull). Humour (that's
actually funny). FX (that actually affect). A brilliant cyborg villain
(who doesn't white cat about). Fidelity to source material. SPIDER MAN
2. Do yourselves a favour and see this as soon as possible. It'll
remind you of how entrancing and joyous cinema can be. (I've got to do
a 'proper', paying review of this, so I'm going to have to hold myself
back a little). You can trust me on this. Fewer things run deeper in
me than Spiderman. I had the comics before I could read. I lived and
breathed the mythos and played with the ego action figures. It's even
better than the first one, and that was the best superhero movie ever
made. HOWEVER: We all agreed that the trailers for upcoming
'attractions' were just about the worst we've ever seen. In ascending
order of stupefyingly inanity: THUNDERBIRDS well, you know all about
this, but I should lower your expectations even further if I were you
. Ben Kingsley white cutting about: (rubs chin malevolently) 'But WHO
will rescue the rescuers?' what hah hah! TWO BROTHERS it's about two
tiger siblings. Separated at birth. No, really. THIRTEEN GOING ON
THIRTY a thirteen year old girl wakes up one morning to find that,
inexplicably, she's THIRTY. With hilarious consequences. MONKEY TENNIS
It left us wondering: what do you have to do to get a script idea
rejected in Hollywood these days? Well, the big post I had planned
today will have to wait, because I lost it and the whole contents of
my hard disc last night. The machine had been wheezing and spluttering
for a while now as I subjected it to my punishing regime of no less
than five windows open at any one time and finally it gave up the
ghost. So I had to reinitialize the hard disc. This has its benefits
actually. All the cobweddusted applications on the hard drive that I
never used but which clogged up space have been summarily removed
without my having the option of shilly-shallying about their deletion
('I might use it one day...') The result is that the machine is
leaner, meaner and much more efficient. Inccidentally, you should have
seen the quivering cold turkey wreck I'd become when I was deprived of
internet access. Yeh, I'll shoot a child in the head, I'll do
anything, JUST GET ME BACK ONLINE: I said to God. Or the Devil. So,
major posts by the end of the week... btw, could any friends out there
please email me coz I obe lost my Outlook Express address book along
with everything else... Marcello, now, sadly, it seems making good on
his threat to abandon the punk comments boxes (those who've driven him
out might do well to reflect on what positive contribution they'e made
to discussion here; one of MC's detractors has, as far as I'm aware,
only posted comments abusing Marcello), with a response to the
nowpulsating Guilty Pleasures debate. The best and the worst of
Marcello here; why the child pornography slight, for instance? And
funny that he braids Charlie Gillett for being 'schoolmasterly' 'sit
up straight at the back of the bus', indeed! Marcello seems to know
the track listing for the Guilty Pleasures album; a cursory search
through Amazon, and couldn't find it. I agree about much of what
Marcello says about BBC Radio London. Robert Elms' show is
surprisingly good, and Danny Baker remains one of the most
effervescent, flintshire witty broadcasters we have (but Marcello is
right: hearing his delirium derives interrupted by inane news and
traffic reports is seemingly frustrating). Simon don't lie (does he
ever?) Dripdropdrap is excellent. (But that font size... It's
preternaturally small. I have to whack it up to 200% to make it
visible.) Also: Beyond the Implode. I particularly enjoyed this post
on Shaw Taylor's unlikely contribution to Industrial (he also featured
in the shock but magnificent Richard Burton chiller The Medusa Touch I
think) and this one on Coil's Love Secret Domain, which uses the
tracks like rhorsach (sp?) blots, triggering skeins of
autobiographical associations. (I'm particularly grateful for this
post, as I luxuriant in the Coil CDR's the lovely Jon Dale was kind
enough to send me). The Times must have been slipped a few backhanders
by Sony, because it devoted no less than three articles over the
course of two days to its forthcoming Guilty Pleasures compilation (a
spin-off from a spot on Sean Rowey's BBC Radio London show). Of the
three articles, it's no surprise that Bob Stanley's is the most
interesting. Even more interesting is the extent to which all three
articles demonstrate, once again, how far the print media lags behind
blogs. The two Saturday articles were illustrated by a photograph of
David Essex, recently rehabilitated by Marcello (a past master at
spotting a gem amidst MOR carbon discards). Then there's Macca, the
subject of one of the last robot posts. Peter Hammil? Reassessed
during the Prog transvaluation last year. Then there's Baal's
favourites, Boston and Foreigner. Stanley rightly attacks Nick Hornby
who is in danger of becoming a straw man in these discussions, albeit
one I'm happened to see isolated as frequently as possible and the
oppressively tasteful canon he hawks. He also, equally unimpeachably,
lambasted Bob Marley's plodding worthiness. Stanley quotes the
headline of a piece on Robert Mugabe (who preferred Cliff Richard to
Marley for his inauguration party): 'Would you trust a man who doesn't
like Bob Marley?' Well, I'm not sure I'd trust a man who did like him.
But then again, can't fault him here Stanley goes on to talk up the
'mindexpanding futurism' of King Tubby. What was slightly puzzling
about this, and the other articles, was the vagueness of the implied
adversary. Who or what was the waylaying Master discourse that
designated these pleasures as guilty? Sometimes it was Hornby
(actually, while we're on this, it's not Hornby, but that boarding
school cockney buffoon Phil julius who occupies the lowest circle of
hell in my current demonology. I know that Evergreen Jim shares my
unreserved detestation for PJ. Have you seen that BBC Six Music
commercial he's doing at the moment? Bit of New Order, smattering of
ska... Worse than Jools Holland, worse even that Jo Whiley, julius
sums up everything suffocating smug, safely consensual and eternally
students about the British pop establishment, the BBC, about the
culture in general). Sometimes it was 'Cool' (associated with 'house
white labels'). But there's no relationship between
HornbyJoolsJupitusism and Cool. Indeed, while the former lobby would
worship at the shrine of Bob, the latter would cleave to Tubby. I
mean, what's puzzling about Stanley focusing on Marley is that La Bob
is surely so utterly, incontestable middlebrook as to be naff. I guess
what Cool and wastefulness have in common is that they both ask you to
override your actual feelings about pop in favour of screened and
mediated prescribed responses. The lure of the Guilty Pleasures
aesthetic is that it says: trust your affects. Enjoyment resumes its
rights. Poor old James Lavelle, though. He's so out of touch that he
thinks that Rumours is a guilty pleasure. Attention, Marcello haters:
if you can read this and not feel a positive hunger to hear the music
desribed, there really is no hope for you. What a wonderful invocation
of the pull of Englishness in his musings on Roy Harper. Interesting
that Marcello should quote Hardy's 'In Time of the Breaking of
Nations', Hardy's clinging to an Eternal Englishness in the face of
the trauma of the Great War , a poem I misquoted/ misremembered here.
Hardy, particularly his poems, will always hold a special place in my
heart. I first encountered him when I was starting my Alevels, and he
was instrumental in my discovery that Literature could connect, could
be more than a drab academic object of study. (Try studying Norman
Nicholson for your O levels, as they were then, if you want to be put
off poetry for life). There's an irony I'm not sure if it's horrible
or appropriately poetic, or both about the fact that Hardy, who
devoted his last years to composing morbid but luminescent elegies for
his deceased wife, should have been one of Laura's favourite writers.
Pyschogeography has two senses. There are two (in)disciplines, and
Luke is a master of both. Just as he's an expert guide through the
betweenspaces of the city, so he's a practised navigator through
different psychic spaces. Some time ago, he wrote that part of the
reason he set up heronbone was to deal with his moods, to log them, to
track them. Detailing the Mood very precisely, becoming the Mood,
letting it speak, is a way of stepping outside it, a step towards
containing it. Intensive cartography. Spinozism. Yes. In a good but
unfortunately also a bad way. Just discovered this.... Anonymous or
pseudonymous comments will, in future, most likely be deleted,
especially if they involve abusing other bloggers. If you want to
engage in oneupmanship, ad homines and personal attacks, please find
another place to do your worst. Bryan Ferry, Saturday, Kenwood House
Well, live music in the open air can be good, if (a) there's no mud
and (b) it's at night. Since I came away from Kenwood House with, no
kidding, nothing worse than a balsamic vinegar stain on my shirt (very
Bryan Ferry) you can count me a satisfied customer. Kenwood House is
an impressive setting, a microterrain within Hampstead Heath (itself
an improbably vast stretch of controlled wildness in north London),
its natural incline making it an ideal setting for hosting live music.
The house, which houses vermeer and Gainsboroughs, imposes its
congenial ambience upon an audience that was never likely to have been
lured by the prospect of rock and roll excess. Picnics, Pimms, chilled
wine, middle-aged parents and their grown-up children lolling out on
the manicured lawn, presentable lavatories, concession stalls
preferring free samples (hence the balsamic vinegar), it's all very
convivial. Ferry was always going to find the recline into middle-age
less embarrassing and traumatic than would the likes of Jagger or even
Bowie. Where Bowie's desperate need to continue to appear relevant has
grown more unseemly with each passing year, Ferry, never particularly
in sympathy with youth culture in any case, just had to retreat into
the classicism with which he has always flirted. A gentle shift of
emphasis, from the urgent ephemerality of Fashion to the relaxed
insouciance of Style. (And quality, they say, never goes out of
style)... To attain Style, Ferry has eschewed, or at least minimized,
Art. The conspicuously advertised fault lines and fissures that marked
out his Pop(as)Art in the past, the self-referential gestures that
allowed him to conceive, coldly, of songs as (Duchampian) found
objects or (Hamilton) collages, these have simply been airbrushed out,
so that the notquitemeanttobeconvincing illusion of organic wholeness
can be sustained. Bowie and Ferry shadow each other, even now, both
cancelling recent shows (and Ferry attenuating this one) because of
illness; Bowie's heart attack doubled by Ferry's, obviously far less
grave, laryngitis. But, for me, there was never a doubt as to who I
was going to swoon for in the Roxy/ Bowie friendly rivalry that
divided playgrounds in the seventies. It's a brunette versus blond
thing, it's an art school versus drama school thing... Bowie always
shocked off his skins rather too effectively, would-be tricksters
mutability playing too much like hollow charlatans for my liking. By
contrast, there's always been something irreducible about Ferry,
something (about himself and his sensibility) he couldn't escape.
Ferry's schlick has always been, genuinely, the sublime. Prior to rock
and roll, pop had a natural affinity with the sublime melancholy that
oozes from Ferry's every quaver and wince. He's always been more
bowlby than Presley. Rock's priapic certainty knew what it wanted (or
thought it did), even if it couldn't get it. The Sixties' drive for
satisfaction laboured (or pleasured) under the (preLacanian) delusion,
that the only problem for desire was what was blocking it. Always a
postman, the reflective role after the orgy or the one who, even as he
moved in for the kill, anticipated the coming (or postcoming) state of
tristresse Ferry, really, the Seventies Pop icon was always troubled
by the chilly hollowness of achieved satisfaction. The bride stripped
bare. What then? As the cowboy absolutely, and by some distance, the
definitive commentator on Roxy* put it: '... and isn't the following
lyric fragment just about two thirds of Lacan summed up in three or
four lines ? I've been looking for something I've always wanted but
was never minibus now I've SEEN that somethingJust out of reach
glowing, very Holy Grail ...... and on, and on ... ... into the
hinterlands of your every future pop disappointment ... and limpid
idealisation based on the merest flurries evidentiary reconnaissance
... ah!, the triumph of spirited selfkiddology over experience as,
once more, you set out to chase that spectacular, specular, mechanical
bunny round the curve of Desire's never ending bend ... Ding! And
they're off! ... Way off ... With every goddess a letdownEvery idol a
bring downie gets you down.But your search for perfectionYour own
predilectionGoes on ... and on ... and on ... and ON ...OH ' Ferry
doesn't play that tonight, as it happens. (Perhaps wisely. To give you
a sense of where the amiable but inexpert audience was at: 'Do the
Strand' received only a smattering of recognition, while 'Slave to
Love' was greeted with near-hysterical fervour). It's because, from
the first moment, Ferry understood what the Sixties, with its benign
Sadeanism, its takeyourdesiresforreality hedonism, contrived to forget
that beyond the pleasure principle, pain and desire have strange
affinities that he was perfectly in tune with the decade of Glam.
After the scrubbed earthiness of the Sixties, the inch-thick cosmetics
and heady perfumes of the Seventies. march stays Sade's whip hand.
Fetishism arrives: a way of avoiding the scandal of female sexuality,
according to Freud a dwelling upon the fabrics and the cuts, on what
she is wearing, not what it conceals. The Sixties colluded with the
crudest Freudian reductivism or reduction of Freud in insisting that
what we really want can be cashed out in biological terms. Glam
revelled in desire's complications. Glamour, after all, isn't about
sex but seduction. It wouldn't be quite right to say that seduction is
opposed to sex, it can include it, but never as a final teleology (no
final teleology in seduction). It is the art of deferral, not as
ascetic selfdenial, but as a means of maintaining the plateau. In the
seducer's play of signs, everything the tiniest microgestures assume
erotic charge. Think courtly love, not pornography. Two of the best
received songs tonight Roxy's 'Love is the Drug' and Harrison's 'Let's
Stick Together' highlight the two sides of the Seventies.
Superficially, 'Love is the Drug' would seem to be improbably carnal
for a Roxy song. But, listen again: it's all about the thrill of the
chase. The camera pulls away just before the money shot. 'Dim the
lights, you can guess the rest.' You could hear that as tasteful
restraint if you wish, but isn't it really saying: nothing after this
is interesting. Who could doubt that love, not sex, is Bryan's fix? In
'Love is the Drug' you hear permissiveness, still largely an elite
preoccupation in the Sixties, percolate out into the wider culture.
'Let's Stick Together' demonstrates some of the consequences of that
ubiquitous pleasure. In the seventies, remember, the word 'divorcee'
still carried moral overtones. You know we made a vow.... But will
they honour it? It's strange that we never seem troubled by that
question. Ferry's arrangement of the song, complete with simulation
whoops, is so jauntily upbeat that we're distracted from the song's
grim deontologic not, we should stay together because we love each
other, but we should stay together because we must. 'Avalon',
strangely, may be Ferry's most positive song. Here his customary
attachment to pleasureinpain, paininpleasure, his lovelorn swooning
croon, gives way to something else, something beyond pleasure
(naturally), beyond even love. 'Now the party's over', he's exhausted,
too tired to do anything but linger in the Moment, her hair, scent,
dress, the dance, the sky, the landscape, all of it an absolute
superfluity, a morethanenough, an achingly, necessarily evanescent
haecceity. The song, Ferry's version of ambient, is as close to anti-
climactic poise as it's possible to be without stopping altogether.
More than that.... there's nothing. * Read everything here as a
footnote to Penman's masterly 'The Shattered Glass'. I went for a day-
trip to Whitstable, on the Kent coast, on Friday. Whitstable is one of
those enclaves of carefully ring-fenced Englishness, in which Time is
not so much frozen or artificially retarded (cf Prince Charles
grotesquely kitsch retroStepfords) aspruned. Developments threatening
the ambience are snuffed out or anticipatively warded off. The new is
permitted in provided it doesnt disrupt the existing hamony; thus
modern cottages nestle amidst centuries-old counterparts. Since so
many of the houses, bisected by the alleys that make the town seem
like a labyrinth of warrens, are, distinctively, constructed out of
wood, Whitstable almost feels like Old New England. The ocean always
brings sublimity to any seaside town. Its inhuman vastness lures and
lulls us into meditative every that we couldnt explain at the level of
the conscious mind. Its a cellular thing. Like most seaside places,
Whitstable is in an Innsmouthian becoming with the ocean and its
creatures. Think of Whitstable and likely as not you think of oysters.
But there is little of the vulgar sublime, the candyfloss neon carry
vivacity, of a Skegness or a Blackpool, here. The air smells of fish,
not fried onions. Whitstable is discreetly deproletarianized. I had
the impression that the families holidaying here were almost
exclusively middle class. But there were, after all, traces of the
vulgar sublime in Whitstable on Friday. Walking along the winding main
street, you come across the modestlooking door to the town museum.
Inside, there is an exhibition commemorating the life of Whitstables
most famous resident, Peter Cushing, who died 10 years ago. The small
exhibition is lovingly curated: film posters, letters from fellow
actors such as Lionel Jeffries, Richard Attenborough and Joanna
Lumley, examples of Cushings modelmaking, personal effects and
photographs are all beautifully displayed. The Hammer film posters
virtually visual definitions of the lurid  point up the contrast
between the films for which Cushing was most famous and the sedately
retiring town in which he was resident while he made most of them.
Cushing is the kind of actor that has completely disappeared in
Britain, along with the British cinema to which he belonged. Genre
film is dead here now. In the issueled, social workers cineculture
that produces brasses Off and Bend it Like Beckham, everything is
pitched at the middlebrow, at the oppressively sensible conscious
mind. The unconscious  that ceaselessly productive machine upon which
the pulp energies of Hammer fed  goes ignored, and with it the
capacity to propagate myth. Look over Hammers filmography, its most
significant moments all featuring Cushing, and you see that it was a
pulp factory, a hyperfictional production line. Hammer began by
animating the fiends (Frankentsteins monster, Dracula) Universal had
electroshocked into cinematic unlike back in the thirties, adding two
new ingredients: technicolour and sexuality. (Universal has itself
revived those monsters again recently, of course, in Van Helsing. I
can only imagine that this was the disappointing travesty everyone
said it was, because I couldnt bring myself to see it). The Quatermass
films were of course Hammers. (These films and the adaptation of
Wheatley's The Devil Rides Out the mesmerically virile Lee as a
thinly-disguised Crowley were perhaps the only notable Hammer films in
which Cushing did not feature.) Terrence Fisher remains one of
Britains most underrated auteurs. He directed Cushing in what is
perhaps Hammers greatest film, their version of Conan Doyles Hound of
the Baskervilles, made in the year, 1959, in which Cushing first
settled in Whitstable. Fishers animistic Dartmoor  all lurking fog and
perilous quicksand  is the perfect setting for the ageless battle
between Reason and Desire, Civilization and Discontent, that Hammer
would play out in endlessly in its version of the Gothic kingdom of
the unconscious. Cushing gives the detective an intellect as sharp as
his cheekbones, turning in a performance that makes him, for me, the
definitive Holmes. The same capacity to embody gaunt rectitude made
Cushing almost synonymous with the role of Van helping in the Dracula
series, where he would play the straight-backed puritan to Christopher
Lees polymorphous perverse inhuman seducer. But in the Frankenstein
series, it was Cushings turn to express a dangerously ambivalent
sexuality. The callow, tragic Icarus of Shelleys novel and the
Universal movies  well-intentioned but hubristic became, in Hammer and
Cushings hands, an amoral Baron, marking the shift from nineteenth
century prometheus romanticism to a Sixties Sadeianism, wherein
Frankensteins fervid obsession with uncovering natures secrets took on
a blatantly erotic dimension. The most evocative aspect of the
exhibition for me was the film posters. These vernacular art works
were, famously, often better than the films themselves, occupying that
same direct line from the eye to the unconscious as did the paintings
on the front of ghost trains. As a child, I would fixated upon the
film posters reproduced in my Horror books, constructing in my mind
terrors far more vividly nightmarish than those in the movies
themselves, which, however good they were, could not but be a
disappointment when I saw them years later. Note to self: must find
out more about who produced the Hammer film posters. Or, maybe,
frightening... Joy! My birthday present from my brother just arrived:
the whole first series of Terry Nation's Survivors. Will shortly be
able to meet my obligation to comment on this missingtillnow punk
artifact. Another longcoveted punk artifact provided by Mr Oliver
Craner, who bought me Nuttall's brilliant Bomb Culture, Britain's
answer to Mailer's 'White Negro' and Toffler's Future Shock. Expect
more on this soon. Also posts soon on: Robert Hughes (very belated),
Hubert Selby Jr... Announcements: Brilliant new Pop Group mp blow by
the author of this equally brilliant, ultraauthoritative Pop Group
site. Add a Pop Group post to my list of promissory notes. Ray brasier
(you might have read him here a while back with a typically acerbic
and incisive commentary on Whitehouse) now has his doctoral thesis
Alien Theory up on the Transmat site. Check it! Gotta go and get
ready; I'm seeing Pinter's 'Betrayal' tonight, so expect a post on
that too... (I suppose all of this is another chapter in the
ruinationalist saga started here and here.) Well, after finally
hearing the latest Morrissey album, I have to confess to being
surprised at how compelling it is. Its nowhere near as plodding or
backhanded as the Streets, nor half as conservative and reactionary as
Franz Ferdinand (incidentally, of the many irritating aspects of FFs
success, the absolute worst has to be their invocation in pieces on
established, but older stars: Ive seen them mentioned in broadsheet
articles on both monza and Bryan Ferry, as if, absurdly, the patronage
of a footling, forgottenbynextChristmas Indie combo somehow confirms
the continuing relevance of these abiding icons). Relevance, yes. Why
does Morrissey suddenly seem so relevant in 2004? Perhaps because
anxieties about what it is to English have more than usual currency
this year, and not only because of all those denunciations of
multiculturalism, the immigration moral panics and the rise of UKIP.
As it happens, its difficult to imagine Morrissey finding much common
cause with UKIP, if only because he is less troubled by
EUroencroachment than by cocacolonization. So there he is, on Come
Back to Camden, under the cloudless white bright desert sky of LA,
pining for the slate grey Victorian skies of North London; there he
is, adrift in Americas endless franchise coffee bar (which no longer
need be in the States of course), longing for a cup of tea that tastes
of the Thames.). Maybe its possible to imagine that Morrissey is, for
once, on the side of the angels in this debate. Perhaps, after all,
his vision of a time when to be English is not shameful need not, as I
complained previously, refer back in time; it could be an
anticipation, and one that, with the displacement of the union jack by
the less threatening, less loaded St Georges flag, might not be as
farfetched as it might sometimes appeared. Actually, and perversely,
the coincidence of the antilads return with yet another English
failure at football has a certain unexpected piquancy. (We should have
known that England were doomed to fail this year. The only time theyve
even approached success in recent years is when the team have gone to
a tournament buoyed up by a rousing song  New Order in 90, Three Lions
in 96: now if only Morrissey, and not those archplodders The Farm  who
exhumed them, I wonder?  had done the England song this time.) Yes,
Morrisseys love of failure and ineptitude, his hapless,
morethanhalfinlovewith sadness, notquiteabletoextinguishhope
yearnings, in fact everything Simon identified so long ago in the
classic Against Health and Efficiency, has everything to do with the
version of Englishness to which he cleaves. (The definitive English
football song remains  and will probably always remain  Three Lions
largely because of the aching, masochistic melancholy it associates
with Englishness. Where Lad meets Sad? Thirty years of hurt is of
course the key line  but just like Morrissey, the song cant entirely
relinquish hope the next line, remember, is never stopped me
dreaming.) English failure and rock have been bound together from the
start. In Lipstick On Your Collar Potter tried to bring alive the
moment of cultural crisis which Morrisseys whole career has
memorialized: the double trauma for England of 56, of rock and roll
and Suez, when Presleys tics and twitches made available not only a
new pallet of pleasures , but, with them, indissoluble from them, an
unassailable American hegemony; and if the future was American, after
Suez, England could no longer doubt that it was the past. This goes
some way to accounting for Morrisseys attachment to the wroughtiron,
rationbook existentialism of the Fifties, the decade in which the
remains of English imperial pride were sucked down the kitchen sink.
The postBeatles Swinging Sixties, when the Beatles had temporarily,
misleadingly, restored English confidence; you never find Morrissey
there. The cramped, netcurtained, monochrome vignettes he scratches
out have their centre of gravity in an England that that never will,
nor ever could leave the Fifties, (considering a Sixties cultural
moment with an obvious Morrissey association Billy Liar will bear this
out. Billys refusal to get on the train is as much a denial of i960
modernity as it is of the metropolis. I choose not to go = I choose
failure and unhappiness = I choose the North = I choose the past.)
Thus Morrissey, the ailing Englishman abroad, the stranded grotesque
whose pale skin was not meant to be cooked in the Californian heat,
thus Morrissey in 2004, turns his sights first of all, on You are the
Quarry, to his adopted homeland. America is not the World doesnt tell
us anything we dont know  about Morrissey or about the world. You know
what you can do with that hamburger: It could hardly be called biting
satire, it could hardly be called witty. Yet its a restatement of
intent, and one that finds Morrissey, perhaps as never before, in tune
with mainstream opinion. Post Empire, post Iraq, anti-americanism has
seldom been so fashionable. What makes Morrisseys song more
interesting is the, pained ambivalence on which it ends. But I love
you, he guiltily confesses, as if America is, as it is for most of us,
an errant lover we cant castigate enough but which well never escape
(nor fully want to). And then Irish Blood, English Heart, its
companion piece, both bullish and plaintive, Morrisseys latest
rallying cry. Lets not confuse Morrisseys calls for a nonbaneful
Englishness with the BNPs demands for the celebration of St Georges
Day. Or rather: lets not damn them because there is a certain
crossover of aspirations. Theres a perfectly good antiracist argument
for allowing English ethnicity to speak its name, after all. The
assumptions (expressed otto voice, but unmistakably there) behind so
much multiculturalism weirdly duplicate those of imperialism: other
people have cultures; we are normal. Only if Englishness was allowed
to show itself could angloWASPishness be denormalised, only then could
it cease to be a transcendent judge of difference and take its place
amongst the heteroglossic riot of differences. Call me sentimental,
but I was heartened, around the time of Euro 2004, to see the amount
of young kids, first maybe second generation immigrants, their mothers
sometimes in traditional muslim garb, decked out in England football
shirts. And no, Im not celebrating a melting pot in which all
differences are subsumed into a bland stew of deracination. What Im
calling for is simply an acknowledgement that dynamic cultures are not
static monoliths, but dialogues, ongoing and inexhaustible provide
they resist clarification into sterile orthodoxy. You are the Quarry
is musically modest, a kind of generic Morrissey drabGlam that reminds
me, on occasions, of Denim. Yet every track has a memorable tune (and
there are Smiths albums about which that couldnt be said). Theres
nothing new here (imagine how shocked and appalled wed be if there
were). Theres definitely a Morrissey trap: Tim does very well in
identifying some of its comforting but slowly lethal lineaments. Its
not true, however, as Tim claims, that everything that went wrong with
Indie began with Morrissey. Sure, Morrissey was a major player in the
retreat from experimentation, in the shift in the meaning of the term
Independent from designating a space, an open potentiality, to it
being reduced, in every way, to the diminutive Indie, the most
drearily formulaic genre in contemporary pop. Yet, unlike The Stone
Roses or Oasis, Morrissey dramatized his anachronism; there was no
danger of our forgetting that we were sandbagging ourselves up against
(post)modernity, retrenching. With the Stone Roses and Oasis, we were
obliged to forget this, to pretend that they were urgent,
contemporary, unprecedented. The rot really started there. Proper
posts tomorrow, but for now a few bits and bobs: 1. Most popular
recipes from my birthday party on Saturday Roast beetroot with honey
and rosemary (Try this one even if you don't think you like beetroot)
ingredients lb raw beetroot, peeled and cut into quarters tbsps olive
oil cloves garlic, peeled dessertspoon dried rosemarysalt and freshly
ground black pepper tbsps clear honey tbsp balsamic vinegar
Instructions1. Preheat the oven to 220 C, 425 F, gas mark 7.2. Place
the beetroot in a roasting tin with the garlic cloves. sprinkle over
the oil, rosemary and seasoning. Roast for 45 minutes.3. Remove the
drizzle on the honey and vinegar. Return to the oven and roast for a
further 20 minutes. Tunisian almond and orange cake (courtesy Sophie
Grigson; quick, easy but delicious) ingredients g (1.5 oz) slightly
stale breadcrumbs200g (7 oz) caster sugar100g (3.5 oz) ground
almonds1.5 tsp baking powder200 ml (7 fl oz) sunflower or vegetable
oil eggsFinely grated zest of 1 large orangefield grated zest of half
a lemon Syrup (you can make it without this):juice of 1 orangejuice of
half an orange85g (3 oz) sugar cloves cinnamon stick InstructionsMix
the breadcrumbs with the sugar, almonds and baking powder. Add the oil
and eggs and beat well. Stir in the orange and lemon zest. Pour the
mixture into a greased cm (8 in) cake tin.Put into a cold oven and set
to heat c90 (375F, gas mark 5). Bake for 4050 minutes until the cake
is a rich brown an a skewer inserted into the centre comes out
clean.Cool for 5 minutes in the tin then turn out onto a plate.While
the cake cooks, make the syrup. Bring all the ingredients gently to
the boil in a pan, stirring until the sugar has dissolved. Simmer for
5 minutes.Pierce holes in the cake with a skewer while still warm and
pour the syrup over it. Leave it to cool, spooning the syrup over the
cake every now and then until is soaked up. 2. How low is TV sinking?
I didn't watch it, but how's this for a line from a BBC 'drama' last
nigh? Trevor Eve: 'Maybe this serial killer is a serial killer of
serial killers.' Was this conscripted by Chris Morris? 3. Things that
made me chuckle Meant to mention this a while back, but huh's
reference to 'Rachel Stevens and her HegelviaZizek references to the
other Other' (see July 1) split my sides... Also, Oliver on literal
laughoutloud form with his tales of masterless adventures on the
buses...'Eez not my problem'... (btw, he's right about the view of
forests from my flat, but, sadly, there are no parrots. Wild boar,
though, absolutely, there's plenty of them. Bromley, it's wild.) We're
not messing about now, people. Those 'lull' posts of a while back were
profoundly misleading. The network isn't dying, far from it. Look
around you, it's obvious now that 'cyberculture' doesn't just have to
mean Wiredreading corporate silverbacks or dysfunctional geeks. Only
rearview terrorism prevents us from seeing that blows are part of a
new cultural configuration that is unique as it is unprecedented. If
blows were initially parasitic on other forms and other media (isn't
anything when it first emerges?), they've now established a space of
their own. For, ultimately, blows are nothing but space. Space is
plentiful out here: you get the opportunity to stretch your legs,
develop a style, a conceptual repertoire, luxuries that are
increasingly rare in the overcrowded print world. These reflections
have been prompted by the return of the maitre, but if he's the
clearest case of a cultural production that has no equal outside
kspace, he's by no means the only example of the phenomenon. But I
defy you to find any contemporary writing as accomplished as this
anywhere. Perhaps it was the enforced period of deprivation sharpening
my palate, but it seems to me that Luke has returned more powerful
than ever, his poetry sharper, more honed, with even less redundancy.
Nothing wasted. The verdant plenitude of NZ is easy meat for an
imagination as developed as Luka's. Not that I'm in any way decrying a
post that bristles with resonant imagery and a sage's insight. He's
our Marker, the discoverer of an omnipresent sf immanent to our
irretrievably artificialized nature . 'Unnatural nature. Against a New
Zealand background, familiar birds, like sparrows or blackbirds can
appear ever so slightly out of sync with their surroundings, as if
superimposed onto them, like a movie star playing his part in front of
a blue screen. Something hasnt gelled. The land and the creature dont
belong to one another. The mind wont accept them as part of the same
picture.' But for all the magisterial qualities of Luke's post on his
mother's homeland, his greatest strength lies in surveying the scurf
zones of the city in which, like all its best poets, he is both
completely at home and halfanoutsider, his beloved London. So here is,
walking, always walking, disconnected from the media matrix, that
smothering extra nervous system that does all your seeing and feeling
for you, hunting for haecceities, chemically transfiguring the city's
trash into shimmering epiphany. 'all the litter is ten years old. the
remains of burnt newspapers. fragments of old stories. old sporting
failures and coups in hot countries. cans of mcewans lager, R.Whites
lemonade and Golden Wonder crisp packets emblazoned with superseded
designs and discarded logos. The colours are fading. fading engrams.
as the colours seep away so do their place in the memory. here you can
see the last remnants of the recent past decay.' Luke's London is
becoming as immediately identifiable, as vividly realised as Blake's,
Sinclair's or Moorcock's: a London of abandoned towpaths, overgrown
relics of the nearpast, teeming dereliction. Join Luke on one of his
riverside walks from Stratford and you're often reminded of
Tarkovsky's Stalker: nature reserves towered over by electricity
pylons, semimythical turtles swimming under fetid water clogged with
crisp packets. Like Tarkovsky, Luke disdain the easy option of
rhapsodising 'pure' nature, preferring to explore an industrial
sublime in which human dereliction comminges with a tenacious,
indestructible flora and fauna. If they could see past the end of
their gangsterloving noses, the inbred custodians of the justly ailing
britoil industry would recognize that there's a readymade movie set
all around them. But you'd need Luke's eye to detect (or project) all
those micronarratives, the steampunk traps, the still-warm memory
trails, the halfconcealed possibilities. Luke makes you see the world
anew, again. What more can you ask of writing than that? Marcello with
a neat response to spun moloch post. I'm going to respond to it here
rather than in the KRDTHM Comments box, because, frustratingly, logger
is still preventing me from using its comments facility. Canonization
may be overdue, but kp and Pillbox (peace be upon him) did moot it a
year ago. I'm hoping that Moloko's playing Common Ground was less a
sign of declining success, more due to the fact that they were the
only decent-sized band the festival could afford. I assume that the
budget was poached on them, hence the rest of the bill was full of
village fete turns, hasbeens, and nevershouldhavebeens. Yeh, there's
no denying that their output has been patchy but the singles,
particularly the later ones, have been consistently excellent. I agree
about Presley's 'Blue Moon' too: has there ever been a more
desolate(d) recording? (I really like this new interactive
Marcello....) Other people must have this absurd 'predictive texting'
function on their mobile. Obviously I disable it on my phone, but have
you ever tried using it? You type in 'o' and it decides that what you
really wanted to type was the word 'pot'. What exactly is it
'predicting'? A piece of Surrealist automatic writing subjected to
Burroughs' cut technique? There seems to be no rhyme or reason
governing its suggestions. I'd love to known what principles were used
to programme it. M'sieu Ingram on chefs and music... (3/7/04) I agree,
apart from two things: 1. 'Before them it was Alma Coogan and Frank
Sinatra, shit in other words...' Alma Cogan, OK, rubbish, but Frank
Sinatra shit? Wash out your mouth with soap, young man! (Watch out for
imminent punk post on Sinatra, Al bowlby and Edward Hopper...) 2.
Delia = Dylan. Not sure about this one, primarily because of my
wellknown aversion to Bob. Coz I love Delia. And where does that River
Cottage fellow fit in? I like that programme. If were going to discuss
art pop, we really ought to forget Franz Ferdinand and Scissor Sisters
and talk about Moloko. I saw them last night at the otherwise
desultory Common Ground festival in Clapham, an event whose lineup was
as limp as its name was uninspired. Gratifyingly, by the way, Common
Ground wasted no time in confirming all my prejudices about festivals
(and then some): those on the stage helplessly attempted to muster
some enthusiasm from bored punters, who wandered around listlessly in
a sunlight inimical to pops mystique, Strongbow in their hand, kid on
their shoulder. We werent the only people to sit and read the paper
for a while. The bill was shocking. It felt like a local council free
event, the organizers under the lamentable misapprehension that theyll
appear with it by booking dance acts such as the oppressively lumpen
stodge of freestyle (a candidate for my worst band ever, actually; I
mean, at least the stereophonic dont taint rap and dancehall by
association) and the Dub Pistols. These clownish white appropriations
of hiphop, drum n bass and dancehall are disspiritingly,
missingthepoint unless and morosely male (even when they use female
vocalists). If their diabolic intent was to systematically convert
some of the most exciting, cuttingedge music of recent years into a
dull migraine thud, they couldnt have done a more ruthlessly efficient
job. And then moloch arrived, Rosin, preposterously but marvellously,
in a helmet, like Boudicca come to retake London. Roisin is every inch
the pop star. Pop stars are a rare breed at the best of times but
theyre scarce to the point of nearextinction now. (There are more pop
singers and celebrities than you can stick at, of course ) Its partly
a question of style, partly of glamour, but mostly its to do with
charisma. In its original meaning, charisma meant a gift from God.
Appropriate. For charisma is dispensed according to fates
inegalitarian whim. Roisin has it. No amount of bluster, sweat or
sinew will allow the likes of the freestyle to acquire it, even though
the resentful, levelling spirit of the times would have it otherwise.
So Roisin arrives and you can feel the change in the air. Where before
the stage was a libidodraining vortex (DJs on stage  just one
question: why?), now it radiates energy, excitement and electricity.
Charisma, its almost a physical thing. Roisin has a glamour which
includes sexual attractiveness but it is not reducible to it. Glamour
originally meant a spell cast by women to entrance men  Roisin is
certainly capitivating, but not only to men. If (viz Foucault) sex is
ubiquitous and compulsory, glamour is now subtly forbidden. With the
Baudrillard of Seduction, a book which could serve as a bible of glam,
we could even see sex in all its directness, in all its supposed lack
of concealment as a way of warding off glamours ambivalence. Much more
successfully than derivative dullards like the thankfully now
forgotten dallas carparkinCroydon Suede, moloch reconnect with the
glam discontinued which was ostensibly terminated by acid houses
equity culture in the late eighties. Glam also had a terminator of an
entirely different nature: hip hops inequity culture of conspicuous
bling, one of the most unfortunate side-effects of which has been the
rise of sportswear (surely one of the most depressing sights now, and
not only because of its implied menace: a group of male teenagers
dressed in tracksuits and hoods). That quotidian functionalism is
todays equivalent of the agrarian organicist from which Seventies glam
revolted into style. Glam repudiated hippies nature in the name of
artifice; disdained its fugged, bleary vision of equality for a
Nietzscheanaristocratic insistence upon hierarchy; rejected its
scrubbed readiness in order to cultivate Image. (Image and great pop
are indissoluble. Maybe the integral role of Image is what separates
Pop from folk. Certainly, art pop, from Roxy to Jones to the New
Romantics, is unthinkable outside fashion.) Madonna carried traces of
the glam aesthetic over into the pop mainstream in the eighties, but a
more obvious precursor for Roisin is Grace Jones (about whom punk must
write extensively in the very near future). Like art poppers such as
Bryan Ferry (whose Love is the Drug she famously vamped), Jones take
on pop was essentially conceptual; at the same time, she knew that
concepts without sensual instantiation are as worthless in pop as they
are in art (a lesson some of our contemporary artists would do well to
heed). Incidentally, an appreciation of the concept is one of the many
things that Franz Ferdinand lack that was there in their inspirations.
(Actually, FF are like a copy made by an alien race, which maintains
all the superficial features of the original, but misses the
essential). Roisin has that paradoxical duality which comes as second
nature to the compelling performer: she is both meticulously obsessed
with her image and, at the same time, apparently indifferent to what
she looks like. This comes over in her dancing. There is none of the
overrehearsed choreography of the Pop Idol puppet. Like Jaggers and
Ferrys, Roisins movement can occasionally look ungainly and gauche.
Sometimes we feel that weve caught her prancing in front of the
mirror. Its partly this that gives her a distance from her image that
isnt camp, or at least not camp in the Kylie sense. There is an
enjoyment there (this is one of many things that separates Roisin from
Kylie: Kylies air hostess professionalism exudes grim determination,
never enjoyment). Principally though not of course exclusively, this
enjoyment is her own, an enjoyment that partly derives from being the
object of attention, but which goes beyond that. Like all great
performers, Roisin onstage enters a kind of performance trance,
attaining the innocence of a child at play, to use Nietzsches
beautifully resonant phrase. Her costume changes  including fetish
boots and a military cap for Pure Pleasure Seeker  have the deranged
playfulness of a girl riffling through a dressing-up box. Just as
moloch give the lie to the accepted wisdom that dance music must be
delivered by hooded anonymities, so they also expose the clumsiness of
the alibi that Franz Ferdinand offer for indie conservatism: the idea
that art pop must be retro. Molokos engagement with house and techno
recalls Roxys dallying with funk and Jones extraordinary SlyandRobbie
assisted construction of a wonderfully elastic dubfunk. Any funk in FF
is third hand, an appropriation of an appropriation. The third
shibboleth that moloch demolish is the notion that dance music cant be
performed live. If youd left before they came on, you would have gone
home convinced that this was the case, as group after group trudged
offstage having failed to capture the precisionengineered thrill of
the rap or d n b studio production. Not so with Moloko. For the most
part the group are as reluctant to take the limelight as Roisin is
delighted to bathe in it. Perhaps because of this, they are an
unbelievably efficient mutagenic sonic machine, dilating tracks into
anti-climactic plateaus with the same skill that a brilliant producer
uses in the studio to sequence an extended version. You know youve
arrived at a plateau when it feels like the track could continue
indefinitely or end immediately. This happened with every track last
night. No doubt this is because the songs provide such a strong basis
for improvisation. Does anyone in pop at the moment, apart from maybe
Destinys Child, have a sequence of high-quality singles to rival
Molokos run from Sing It Back to last years Forever More? Like the
Junior Boys, Molokos whole existence demonstrates that rhythmic
innovation and spinetingling songwriting do not have to be mutually
exclusive. (Why did we ever think they were?) Misleading, then, to
select highlights, but the set is deftly constructed, so that the last
three tracks pack the most impact: Forever More, with its empathic
house bass , Roisin plucking and shredding petals from an enormous
bunch of roses as she delivered its gorgeous blues plaint; Sing It
Back, which theyve expanded into a deluxe suite, a song as a sequence
of different possibilities; and finally the enigmatic Indigo, which
begins all Moroderminimal, just Roisin, a drum machine and an electro
throb, then builds into a mighty cakewalk riff, as brutally bass-heavy
as The Fall at their most punitive. The only drawback? Roisin said
that itll be a long time until moloch play in London again. Damn. Can
anyone help? I've heard one or two Coil tracks, and I want to explore
them further but they've got so many albums I don't know where to
start. Any recommendations? Also, are there any good introductory
articles on them available on the internet? You might have noticed
that I've rearranged the links on the sidecar into (no doubt spurious)
categories. This largely for my own benefit; as it was, I got lost and
ended up furiously scrolling up and down when looking for a link. If
either (a) your link has got lost in the rearrangement (b) you
violently object to my categorization of your site let me know ...
Marcello's also right about the Paul Morley Vox Pop documentary.
Everyone should check this out while it's still online (for the next
six days I think). The documentary takes almost exactly the same
journey he plotted in Words and Music, but much more engagingly.
Partly this is due to the materiality of the sounds: on the radio, the
journey has a physicality that it lacks on the page. Morley's notion
that there are alternative histories of rock not imaginary histories,
but histories equally as valid as the official, well-worn jointhedots
road stretching from the Beatles to Radiohead ('the teenybop
avantgarde', PM claims) this notion is immediately liberatory. Things
didn't have to end up here (=The White Stripes). In fact, and more
importantly, in fiction, things never do end up anywhere. Everything
is always in the middle. Morley is well aware of the power of fiction,
of fictional histories, the hyperstitional force of sonic fictions.
The negative magic of the blues and Beatles myth resides in its power
to keep on (re)producing music that fits in with the template (thereby
reproducing the myth itself). Morley's alt.history turns out to be a
profusion of histories: Cage== Stockhausen=== Can === Kraftwerk ===
order ===Kylie VU === Eno === Bowie === Destiny's Child etc., etc.
Morley demonstrates, without stooping to make the point explicit,
what's so laughable about the NME calling what they are championing
'art rock'. If Radiohead are the teenybop avantgarde, Franz Ferdinand
must be the Student Union Josef K. As someone who took the social
journey across the tracks (with sound his great educator), Morley
keeps faith with the old art-school dream of not only reconciling
higher with pop, but of discovering a deep and irreducible complicity
between them. PROLE ART THREAT! One of many fascinating observations
by one of the many fascinating companions Morley takes with him on
(this version of) the journey. Peter Hammill: the best music, the best
art, can, no must, be both serious and humorous. And yet if you look
at the most populist laptop today, it's so pofaced. (Is there anything
more po-faced than a borland ballad?) Incidentally another Morley
nugget I turned up whilst goggling for a PM image: this questionnaire
about his reading preferences.For those that haven't noticed,
Marcello's sniffing new home is Koons Really Does Think He's
Michelangelo. It's got a comments facility! And hyperlinks! Almost
like a blog! :) Seriously, though, it's wonderful that Marcello hasn't
made good on his promise to discontinue blogging. I would appreciate a
larger font though. Encouraging noises from the BBC, ahead of their
bid for a renewal of the licence fee. Grade is apparently set to
reposition the BBC as a quality broadcaster, with a commitment to more
single dramas, primetime current affairs and culture shows, and more
investment in the excellent BBC Four. Single dramas: now that's
significant. The problem with the BBC is not so much its lack of
investment in drama per se, but rather the type of drama ('lavish'
costume, period dramas) which has become the default option for the
corporation. Let's hope that Grade is serious about giving substance
to these claims. "A master of the ulcerated torrent" eh? Like that
it's going on the cv. Incidentally, Matt commented the other day
(25.06 no permalinx on the hyperminimalist Woebotnik, natch) that top
100 lists are 'almost constructed to shore off the sniping remarks of
one's peers'. Well, I can say honestly that there was nothing
contrived on my list. I simply thought about which records I've bought
(and some which I've, not to my credit, gotten rid of) over the years,
and tried to decide which ones had most impact on me. The eagle-eyed
amongst you might have noticed that I've put the top 100 up on the
sidebar. I've decided to treat is as working document; at least then
it won't be a purely reactive blast against the Observer's list. In
the first instance, I've hyperlinked to pieces I've already written on
particular albums at kpunk. In future, I hope to build up something on
every one of the albums. When I'm short of inspiration, I can also
post about one of the hot 100... And Matt's so right. People don't get
heated enough about this sort of thing. That's part of the syndrome
actually: politeness, respect, eclecticism, all discourse part of the
PR industry, everything goes.... Yes, yes, yes. Apart from the bit
about euthanasia. Fantastic interview with Ballard in the Guardian
last week that somehow passed me by (that's what you get for reading
the Times, I spose). Especially given recent hookah here, I
particularly liked his comments on the contemporary art scene:
'Today's art scene? Very difficult to judge, since celebrity and the
media presence of the artists are inextricably linked with their work.
The great artists of the past century tended to become famous in the
later stages of their careers, whereas today fame is built into the
artists' work from the start, as in the cases of min and Hirst.
There's a logic today that places a greater value on celebrity the
less it is accompanied by actual achievement. I don't think it's
possible to touch people's imagination today by aesthetic means.
Emin's bed, Hirst's sheep, the Chapmans' defaced goya are
psychological provocations, mental tests where the aesthetic elements
are no more than a framing device. It's interesting that this should
be the case. I assume it is because our environment today, by and
large a media landscape, is oversaturated by aestheticising elements
(TV ads, packaging, design and presentation, styling and so on) but
impoverished and numbed as far as its psychological depth is
concerned. Artists (though sadly not writers) tend to move to where
the battle is joined most fiercely. Everything in today's world is
stylised and packaged, and min and Hirst are trying to say, this is a
bed, this is death, this is a body. They are trying to redefine the
basic elements of reality, to recapture them from the ad men who have
hijacked our world. Emin's beautiful body is her one great idea, but I
suspect that she is rather prudish, which means that there are limits
to the use she can make of her body and its rackety past. Meanwhile,
too much is made of conceptual art putting it crudely, someone has
been shitting in Duchamp's urinal, and there is an urgent need for a
strong dose of critical Parazone.' Estelle '1980' Does everything the
Streets want to (paying hyperattention to the microminutiae of
everyday briault life), but with a sweeping, exhilarating swagger that
Skinner's stuttering stop-start backhanded sampling will never
approximate.... Marvellous stuff. What a great year for singles.
[Prefatory note: Ive been preparing this post for a while, cultivating
an obsession you might say, but putting it up now might be regarded as
perverse if not to say self-defeating timing, since it seems to
contradict the burnallnostalgia, the pastisdead message of yesterdays
Glastonbury fulminations. Only superficially, though. What irritates
and irks about Glastonbury is what irritates and irks about students
and Indie (for it is their festival, the celebration of their
culture): namely, that it occupies a position of alleged marginality
only to clog it full of what is most horribly mainstream and
moribund*. Far more interesting to do the reverse  to occupy the
mainstream and redirect, deflect and infect it. OK, OK, this sounds
like entryism, and we know how discredited that philosophy is, right?
But if youre not persuaded by me, listen to grail Marcus: With its
insistence on perceptions snatched out of a blur, drawing on (but
never imitating) Jamaican dub and ancient Appalachian ballads,
Fleetwood Mac is subverting the music from the inside out, very much
like one of John Le Carres moles  who, planted in the heart of the
establishment, does not begin his secret campaign of sabotage and
betrayal until everyone has gotten used to him, and takes him for
granted. (Fever in the Marketplace: Real Life Rock Top Ten 1979, In
the Fascist Bathroom, 8283] We like Le Carre comparisons here I love
Fleetwood Mac in the way that you love those things that you come to
late in life. Being born in the late sixties and coming to pop
awareness in the early eighties meant that my first taste of F M was
the singles from Tango in the Night (1987), easily dismissed at the
time as appealing enough but emollient, deathless MOR confections. The
only trace of the preposterously successful Rumours (1977) by then was
the instrumental section of The Chain used as the theme tune for the
BBCs motor racing coverage. (Later, Id encounter Go Your Own Way when
Scorsese used it in Casino.) In America, it could not but be
different. Rumours cast a vast shadow over US rock and pop that would
be inescapable for a generation. Fleetwood Mac, Simon wrote in his
1994 piece on Tusk were what America had instead of punk. In their own
ways, both Rumours and Never Mind the Bollocks were about saying
goodbye to the past: but where the Pistols adopted a scorched earth
policy, carpet bombing the whole of rock history (even it, to Lydons
chagrin, they were unable to escape it), Fleetwood Mac favoured
reinvention, the painful exploration of wounds old and new, a kind of
gestalt therapy that would require decades of working through. Compare
Rottens No Future with McVies Dont stop/ thinking about tomorrow for a
snapshot of the differences between US and UK rock in the late
seventies (and between American and British psychology in general).
Dont Stop had exactly the kind of message that a shell-shocked
America, dragging itself out of the mire of Vietnam, was ready to
hear, just as the dispossessed of Callaghans Britain, stumbling
towards the Winter of Discontent, took a fatalistic delight in Rottens
incendiary nihilism. (Bill Clinton would famously use Dont Stop as the
talismanic themetune for another would-be American renewal, in his
election campaign of1992  but dont let the patronage of that lying
sleaze put you off, please.) American pop is slow to change but
essentially progressive. By contrast, British pop, fuelled by speed
and e, moves in fits and starts, breaks and loops, sudden surges,
depressive longueurs and doublingsback. Thats why the US could never
produce nor properly appreciate Oasis. And why the UK wouldnt nurture
a band like the NicksBuckingham version of Fleetwood Mac. The
groundwork for Rumours was laid on the self-titled album of two years
before. The roles were already established. Of the three songwriters,
Christine McVie, along with the rhythm section of thenhusband John and
Mick Fleetwood, was the link to the bands past. She was the reliable
provider of bankable melodic pop, Macs McCartney. But the future lay
with the two young Americans recruited to resuscitate the flattening
ex-pat Brit blues band, Lindsey Buckingham and Stevie Nicks.
Buckingham, whose compositions booked the album, brought angst, anger
and a fierce, combustible energy. Monday Morning looks ahead with an
unsteady gaze, unable to convince itself that the easiness of mind
that it pines for could ever be achieved. The troubled waters of So
Afraid oil with unresolved anxieties. But its Nicks who is the most
sublimely, uncannily fascinating. Stevies preoccupations are easily
caricatured. Yet for all her rep as an ethereal, dippy hippie, Nicks
mysticism is surprisingly material: her becomingswoman always
associated with physical instantiation (storms, oceans, birds)
invariably pass by way of becomingsanimal to becomingthecosmos. The
entity she invokes is less the Mother Earth of traditional feminine
symbolism (whether on loan from the male imaginary or appropriated by
feminists) than what Can called Mother Sky, the great cosmic seducer
who lures you into flight rather than roots you to the ground.
Rhiannon is her first anthem to this elusive, forever fugitive agent
of female flux. The song a paean to she who cannon be pinned down or
defined, the temptress who rules her life like a bird in flight could
be the female reply to The Stones Ruby Tuesday. Nicks renders it as a
gentle taunt to Rhiannons male pursuers, those who would own or
possess her: Will you ever win? Landslide, elemental and occasionally
elliptical, is an achingly pretty ruination on passing time. It
auditions what might be called Nicks SpaceCountry sound. (Its no
surprise that, when it was covered by a the Dixie Chicks last year,
Stevie won a Country award.) Nicks poised female strength (in song, if
not in life) couldnt form a greater contrast with Mcvies recorded
persona. Christines reputation as the bands sensible member is
undeserved. On the contrary, Mcvies songs express a submissiveness so
consistent as to be almost pathologically masochistic. Say That You
Love Me, Christines Will You Still Love Me Tomorrow?, boasts one of
her most winning melodies, but it speaks of distrust and betrayal. The
impendingendoftheMcViemarriage song, Over My Head, is painfully
equivocal, not sure whether it wants to continue drowning in what
sounds like an abusive subordination to the Other (It sure feels good)
or come up for air (am I wasting my time). But Fleetwood Mac is only
the prelude to Rumours, which, from its first seconds, feels epochal.
No need to dwell on the soap operas which attended its production, the
final disintegration of the McVie marriage and the descent into
acrimony of the NicksBuckingham affair, because that story has been
endlessly told, nowhere better than on the bloodletting catharsis of
the songs themselves. The Chain, credited to the whole band, is the
core around which the rest of the album grows; its central image calls
up all the contradictions and compromises of their complexly
intertwined dependencies and codependencies: bondage and fellowship,
bondage as fellowship, fellowship as bondage. McVie provides the joy
(the solopiano epiphany of Songbird, the giddy firstflush butterfly
flutters of You Make Loving Fun and that ageless tribute to optimism,
Dont Stop), but the catalytic core of the album is the dialogue
between Buckingham and Nicks. Go Your Own Way is the sound of
Buckingham warring within himself, alternately placating then damning
his lovers phantasmatic image, the verses supplication (If I could/ I
would give you my world), the chorus subsiding into desperate anger,
the song lurching between Ill love you forever and fuck you, its over
before finally incandescent in an (instrumental) ecstasy of rage. I
(dont) want you back. Stevies Dreams responds not with anger, not even
reproach, but anticipates the lover becoming snared in his own rueful
memories which are destined to give the lie to any cheap conquests he
might temporarily enjoy (Women they will come and they will go/ But
when the rain washes you clean, youll know.) The track Im continually
drawn back, though, to is the closer, Nicks Gold Dust Woman. Its an
ending to an album as suspended, as poised, as the dying shimmer of
Roxy Musics For Your Pleasure. An eerily, ironically prophetic future
autobiography of Nicks addictions (first, to cocaine and later to
prescription tranquillizers: rock on gold dust woman/ take your silver
spoon/ and dig your grave), the track wouldnt be out of place on ago
Mago. The Gold Dust Woman, a dragon, a spider, is the female antiope
to Rhiannon: imprisoned and imprisoning, quite literally a femme
fatale, a lifedenier rather than a fleeing free spirit. Rumours is,
for better or worse, emblematic of its time, unable to escape the
seventies it so effectively soundtracks. Its successor, Tusk (1979),
however, is untimely, impossibly intimate and unassimilable eccentric,
largely because of Buckinghams megalomaniac production, which, in
addition to giving the whole album a d hypervividness, made it a
genreofone unrepeatable singularity. Tusk includes some of McVies most
alluring if less immediate songs: the opener, Over and Over, its
lovely, lazy groove, offset by Lindseys slide guitar, perfectly evokes
the gidding incredulity of falling in love: Could it be me? Could it
really, really be?. (To which Buckinghams What Makes You Think Youre
the One? might be the spiteful riposte.) Never Make Me Cry is a rarely
beautiful, fragile plaint, poised, as ever, between faith and fear.
But Brown Eyes, like a ballad played by Miles circa In a Silent Way,
is McVies most entrancing and entranced song an eddying, whirlpool of
qualified rapture, stoned on the prospect of the long yearnedfor love,
but sobered by the memories of past betrayals. Once again, though, it
is the contrast between Nicks and Buckingham that provides the albums
most compelling source of drama. Here, more even than on Rumours, the
differences between male and female libidinal economies are
exquisitely explored. Buckinghams compositions  some of them less than
two minutes in length ejaculate to a hurried conclusion, while the
typical Nicks song lingers for a good five, six minutes. Lindsey
founds a bizarre microgenre with almost all of his songs, from the
deranged dadaists hillbilly boogie thrash of The Ledge, Not That Funny
and 'That's Enough for Me' through to the gorgeous, nervetaut Pet
Sounds harmonymachines such as Thats All For Everyone and Walk a Thin
Line and the howlatthemoon patched blood of the mournful Save Me a
Place. Where Buckingham burns, Stevie smoulders, surges and swell,
shimmers and simmers. Tusk showcases three of Stevies  and therefore
anyones best songs. Simon said everything that needed to be said about
the enigmatic Sara: Siphoning sheer nectar from her throat, Stevie is
cradled in Buckingham's shimmerscape productioncascades of
scintillating acoustic guitars, susurrating plumes of angelbreath
harmonies, drums that seem to billow in out and of the mix. I
certainly cant do better than that! You won't ever hear a more
powerful song about the fading otterburn of a failed relationship than
'Storms'. Hear it as the sequel to the Supremes Love Hangover. If Love
Hangover is about the immediate shock of rejection, about the literal
inability to accept that its over, about a willing indulgence in the
negative ecstasy of pain, Storms is about the moment when denial is no
longer possible, when the endorphin rush gives way to a numbness, when
your bodys no longer able to cry, when you have to take the first step
towards on that always ghastly journey, moving on. Every night that
goes between/ I feel a little less  Beautiful Child is the third in
this incredible triptych. As so often with Stevie, it's elliptical,
elusive, but evocative. Its images and affects seem to lock in
directly to the unconscious. The song appears to be about a
slowsmouldering love affair ('you fell in love when I was only ten')
well, less an affair than a kind of fated betrothal, a Heathcliff and
Cathy lifemeld, now ended seemingly forever (because of death?)
Musically, it's like a clockworkmachine gone awry (Simon: 'The effect
is like the heart is literally broken, a clockwork device gone out of
synch'), a staggeringly beautiful paean to regret and loss, Stevie's
multitracked vocal haunting itself... These three songs suspend rock's
bluesderived, malemodelled, tensionrelease 'testicular thermodynamics'
to explore a slowburn series of plateaus. Leaving aside the
forgettable Mirage, FMs next most significant moment was 1987s Tango
in the Night, the album that Buckingham rescued from the bands cooked
out indifference, at the cost of his own departure. By this time,
Stevie was the furthest gone, a catatonic zombie wheeled into the
studio to perform her contributions. And she sounds like that,
autopiloting through the meandering AOR doodles of Seven Wonders and
Welcome to the Room Sara. McVie contributes two of the albums
megahits; the apropos effervescence of Everywhere, and, one of her
most disturbing hymns to supplication, Little Lies . But the
highlight, appropriately, belongs to Buckingham; his Big Love sounds
like the copulation of Duchampian desiring machines. Marcello is right
to invoke Horn and ZTT, though for me, the album displays many of
Horns vices, an uninvolving, pristine monumentalism, cavernous and
vacuous. Finally, then, to the MTV/VH1 comeback special from 1997, The
Dance. Watching, you can feel all the electricity thats lacking at
Glastonbury crackle. Its a masterclass in rock performance  which
doesnt mean histrionic posturing (Bono), end of the pier metamugging
(Robbie) or tonsilrupturing vocal gymnastics (Xtina). Theres something
almost intangible but immediately palpable that separates, say, Macca
at Glastonbury from The Dance. Macca hits all the notes and
technically performs well. But what FM do that McCartney didnt happens
between the notes. Its the difference between acting and acting out.
On The Dance, Fleetwood Mac occupy the affective space of the songs,
they dont simply play them. They enter into a performance trance. The
result is that every song matters. Everything is dramatic, including
the bands arrangement on stage. At the back, the groups engine room,
itself a study in contrasts. Mick Fleetwood, effusive, gregarious, an
attentionjunkie, gurns, leeds and lurches like some hyperactive Ray
Harryhausengiant, while John McVie, baseball gap pulled down over his
eyes, lurks in the shadows in the manner of unassuming mechanic. On
the right, slightly detached, vaguely inhibited, uncomfortably stiff,
dressed like a glamorous headmistress, Christine McVie: sensible and
sentimental. But the real action is front and left. Stevie, leaning
forward in a witch hunch, swathed in shawls and scarves, sensuality
incarnate, her gaze fixated, for most of the time, on Buckingham (body
taut, his head rolled back), both well aware that the source of the
groups sorcerous power is the interplay between the two of them. Live,
Buckingham is the revelation. Sure, by now he can play Stevies courtly
suitor to perfection (check his attentive acoustic picking on
Landslide), but he comes into his own on songs like My Little Demon,
So Afraid and Go Insane where he stakes his claim to be considered the
inheritor of howling, anguished bluesman, tradition initiated by
Robert Johnson. Imagine Led Zeppelin if they were good; i.e. with all
the nihilibidinal anguish, but minus Plants caterwauling histrionics
or Pages overelaboration (errr, whats left?) And look at what he does
to Tango in the Nights Big Love. Scrabbling it out solo on an acoustic
guitar, he strips the songs surface gloss away to reveal a raw,
bleeding core of blues anguish and failed ambition. Once again,
though, its the luminescent Nicks who is the stunning eye of the
storm. Shes grown into Landslide, a song which sounded too old for a
woman in her twenties. As she sings the line, 'Ive grown older, too',
she gives a wistful, knowing shrug .. But it's Silver Springs, the
song criminally left off Rumours for 'lack of space', that is the
highlight of the DVD. Stevie shows that she could out alans alans
twenty years before Jagged Little Pill. She tries to sound graceful
and in control, if regretful ('Is she pretty? ... Was it worth it? ...
I don't wanna know'), when out of nowhere, the song is swept up by a
tempest of raw emotion, Stevie transformed into a harpiebanshee agent
of revenge and implacable obsession 'Time casts its spell on you/ But
you won't forget me... You'll never get away from the woman who loves
you... Words are just a fool.' She has always been a storm, indeed,
and like the XWoman, she is superbly impressive at marshalling and
controlling her elemental power. IF YOURE EVER GOING TO BUY A did OF
LIVE MUSIC, BUY THIS ONE I've not yet organized my thoughts on last
year's comeback LP, 'Say You Will', but you should definitely
readMarcello's thoughts on it. While we're at it, Marcello's general
FM overview is indispensable, as his (at least I assume it's his)Uncut
review of the redox releases of Fleetwood Mac, Rumours and Tusk. *
Bathetic footnote: the word moribund will always remind me of Alan
Partridge onKnowing Me, Knowing You, countering accusations that its
moribund with a (scarcely credible) positive assessment. Not my words.
The words of Mike Taylor of TV Quick. Speaking of charts I think Dave
Keenan's Best 100 albums ever is a very enjoyable list. Best
description of an album I haven't heard, on steele Span's Please to
See the King: a 'droning hybrid that at its best sounds like The
Velvet Underground trapped somewhere in the with century.' Nick
Gutterbreakz joins in the fun... Fad Gadget, yeh, gotta check him out
more thoroughly, ditto Kevin Ayers. Is the Plastic Ono band good?
(Genuine question.) Ultramarine, yeh, an oversight on kp's part.
Boards of Canada, whisper it, I've never heard. Just bought White
Noise Electric Storm. Junior Boys' Matt didymus strongly recommended
the Zombies to me when he was over in the UK recently... 'What really
drives student entrepreneurs into a premature commercial detachment is
their audiences. Every new ents officer learns from first-team
results; black music has no student draw; known bands are preferred to
unknown bands; no one in the student union cares who the latest
critical cult figures are. Students are the great, middleclass,
middlebrook bastion of British rock and, after twenty years, their
tastes aren't about to be shaken.' So wrote Simon Frith in 1985. Well,
after twenty further years, I see no reason to revise Frith's
judgement. These reflections have been prompted by Glastonbury,
naturally, which is now nearly officially the endofcollegeyear prom
for Britain's student (and griduate) population. I should preface my
remarks here by referring to Ian Penman's comments of more or less
this time last year and if anyone doubts what a LOSS IP is, and I'm
sure noone does, just read his Glastonburial 03 posts. Like Penman, I
feel annoyed at myself for letting it get to me. The cowboy put it
perfectly: ' I still get agitated, perplexed I wouldn't actually say
'depressed', that's not true but something like Glastonbury irks and
niggles me, still, in a way I wish it didn't. I really do wish it
didn't. ...Could you PLEASE knock me off my feet, for a while?PLEASE
knock me off my feet for a while . . .'Cos there's a GALAXY OF
EMPTINESS tonight.' All that said, and obviously I didn't GO christ,
you didn't imagine that IN A MILLION YEARS I would, did you? and
obviously the telly coverage is as nothing compared to the real
experience: cos there's like MUD there (and weren't Jo Wiley's mud
anecdotes absofuckinglutely, screamingly hilarious?), and fire-eaters
and JUGGLERS ..... (Has any cultural event of any significance ever
happened whenever a juggler is within a hundred mile radius?) Penman
again: I mean, music in a field in the daytime? Wtf? It's almost
deliberately delibidinizing.... But that's the agenda, really, the
secret purpose of this now unopposed embourgeoisement of rock culture
UK. What's positively sinister about Glastonbury now is that it's not
just accidentally crap, it's systematically crap the hidden message
screams out: it's all finished, roll up, roll up, for the necrophilia
spectacle, it's all over ABANDON ALL CULTURAL VITALITY ALL YE WHO
ENTER HERE Those who only remember the past are condemned to repeat it
Forever The bill was almost parodicallly LCD MOR, so safe and organic
and wholesome and unimpeachable and uncontroversial: Macca! Oasis!
Franz Ferdinand! No black folks of course unless they're well into
their sixties (James Brown; tools and the Maytals), but no whites
EITHER unless they're into their sixties (Macca) or sound like they
could be in their sixties (Franz Ferdinand, Scissor Sisters)... Go
along with mum and dad, read the Guardian, smoke some dope the whole
of rock history hugged out into some blandly beneficent museum of dead
forms, all breaks, disontinuities, ruptures edited out or incorporated
back in (the 'Dance' stage), their force and novelty subdued and
airbrushed into a joyless carnival of secondhand History for the
stupefied delectation of the Last Men.... (And didn't they look so
BORED? Well, wouldn't you?) The significance of generation gaps wasn't
the tired Oedipal merry-go-round so much as that they pointed to a
culture of constant renewal how long is a generation? in any vital
culture, it's a matter of weeks or months, here? Well, the fact that
the generation gap doesn't make any sense any more at Glastonbury
balding accountants getting down to Basement Jaxx, Jemima studying
Fine Arts at Sussex being 'blown away' by Macca ('he was so gid!') is
a sure sign that this is a 'culture' as energetic as the contents of
one of Hirst's tanks. RESPECT, respect for everyone .... (when culture
demands respect, when respect is the appropriate response to culture,
you know it's either died in its sleep or been killed). Respect is how
they killed Shakespeare, make it all a part of the National
Heritage.... A tactical nuclear strike wd have taken out virtually
everything that's debilitating, deadening and reactive about the Brit
culture industry (the whole NME staff: bargain!), much of the current
ruling class and a significant portion of our future masters too (all
those aspiring Tony Blairs). Once the bombers have hit Glasto, set the
coordinates for Ibiza, things might start improving around here... The
superstition blow off to a flyer a unique experiment in elaborating/
producing/ exploring theory on the fly Come on over, more participants
always welcome, always needed ...continues, after looking like it
wouldn't... OK, indulge me, I've indulged myself.... It's partly the
disgust, rage and disappointment of actually seeing the Observer list
: where it's not drably canonic, it's absurd (and not in any
interesting way, absurd in that there are obviously people out there
who get paid to write about music whose taste has not moved on since
they were first year undergraduates); and where it's not canonic or
absurd, it's infuriating. Lloyd Cole and the Commotions! Fucking Lloyd
'couldn't write his way out of a paper bag' (MES) Cole. Good God, the
only place I expected to see his smug chubby chops again was staring
at me from out of a car boot. And I can hardly bear to say it, but The
Stone Roses being placed, never mind about getting to number 1. This
is far more depressing than reality TV pop, jeez, people who are
prepared, in 2004, to vote that overtype slice of slight retropuffery
as the best British album ever made , well, they deserve only the
worst, the most mediocre, of everything. Yeh, you can understand a
momentary aberration when it came out, people getting carried away,
intoxicated on Brown's manc swagger (I mean, Brown's solo stuff and
that single he did with uncle obviously tower above anything the Roses
achieved; and they should be placed oooh as high as 312), temporarily
letting the guard down and the standards slip when there was a paucity
of alternatives. But, now, in 2004, after a decade of timeshattering
rhythmic psychedelia, after Loveless, after garage, do we really need
to stir that undead r and r cavader? Oasis, too. And Echo and the
'moon in june' Bunnymen. All those tedious undercard poster boys. What
dreamdeprived, desiredecayed, quotidian mire do those who voted live
in? So it's partly the rage, and partly the inspiration of Marcello
and, even more, of Jim (still no permalinx; see Monday just June
entry), partly because it's a bit of fun.... kpunk's top 100 british
albums arranged by decade (though I'm sure I've got some of the dates
wrong, I just did it by memory). Naturally, it's been thrown together,
so it's a bit rorschach blot, not rationally considered (and possibly
all the better for that), not objective (what would that mean?), not
even pretending to be, it's an attempt, not to Mount Rushmorelike
inscribe in stone, with the Big Other at my shoulder, a sacred list of
albums that are 'Good', but to record those albums that were Events in
my life, that changed things, that forever altered my scanning
patterns, my expectations, perceptions... There are almost certainly
horrendous omissions ... Yes, it's too white, too male (but then, so
am I), the eighties are overrepresented (but then, that's when I was
most impressionable).... 00s dizzy Rascal  Boy in Da CornerOxide and
Neutrino Present: the Solid Sound of the UndergroundOxide and Neutrino
ExecuteDavid sylvia  Blemish 90s 187 knockdown  187 LockdownTricky
Pre Millennium TensionGoldie  saturn ReturnMassive Attack
ProtectionBreakdown Presents: Drum & Bass Selection 3 Suburban Base
and Moving Shadow Present The Joint LP Various Techsteppin The Dark
Side: Hardcore Drum and Bass Style (React) Marvellous Cain  Gun Talk
World of Twist  Quality StreetTricky  MaxinquayeAphex Twin Selected
Ambient WorksBasement tax RemedyMBV  Loveless (also here)Barry Adamson
Soul MurderAltern 8  Full on Mask HysteriaRenegade Soundwave
Soundclash 80s New Order  movement am  PsychocandyThe Fall
GrotesqueThe Fall  Hex induction HourJapan  Tin Drum John fox
MetamaticVisage  VisageOMD  Architecture and MoralityBlue Nile
HatsAssociates  SulkAdam and the Ants  Kings of the Wild FrontierJoy
Division  CloserHappy Mondays  Squirrel and mandate Bush  Hounds of
LoveTalk Talk  Spirit of EdenAfrican Headcharge  Off the Beaten
TrackThe Smiths  Hatful of hollow skid  Seven Songs 23 skid  The
Culling is ComingLondon Posse  Gangster ChronicleMark Stewart + mafia
As the Veneer of Democracy Starts to FadeAnnie Anxiety  JackamoThe
Cure  PornographyBauhaus  MaskScritti Politti  provisional  Lexicon of
LoveSimple Minds  New Gold DreamMagazine  The Correct Use of smartest
Dept  The Unacceptable Face of FreedomPet Shop Boys  ActuallyPet Shop
Boys  PleaseDurutti Column  mini ReillyGang of Four  A Brief History
of the Twentieth CenturyUltravox  Rage in EdenSiouxsie and the
Banshees  A Kiss in the DreamhouseSoft Cell  NonStop Erotic
CabaretSoft Cell  This Last Night in SodomMarc and the mamba  Torment
and TorerosThe Pop Group  For How Much Longer Do We Tolerate Mass
Murder?Happy Mondays  Bummed808 State  QuadrastateThe Cure  Seventeen
SecondsThe Jam  Greatest HitsVirginia Astley  In Gardens Where We Feel
SecureBrian Eno  On LandCabaret Voltaire  Voice of America 70s Slits
cutback Sabbath  ParanoidTubeway Army  subway ArmyTubeway Army
ReplicasUltravox  Systems of RomanceThe Stones  Exile on Main
StreetJohn Martyn  Solid AirRoxy Music  Roxy MusicRoxy Music  For Your
PleasureBowie  LowCabaret Voltaire  Mix upon Group  roy Harper
StormcockBryan Ferry  Lets Stick TogetherMagazine  Real LifeKilling
Joke  Killing JokePiL  Metal BoxJohn Barry  007 with anniversary
edition James Bond CollectionShirley Bassey  The SinglesMagazine  Real
lifespan  Adolescent sexton Cale  Paris 1919Joy Division  Unknown
PleasuresVan Morrison  Moondance 60sBBC Radiophonic Workshop BBC
radiophonic musicPink Floyd  Piper at the Gates of ianthe Stones  Let
It BleedThe Stones  AftermathThe Kinks Village Green Preservation
SocietyThe Beatles  Rubber south Beatles  RevolverThe Beatles  White
Album 30s Pennies From Heaven soothe Singing Detective  OST What might
have featured/ what might well feature in future, if Id heard them
enough/ recently/ at all: Joe Meek Throbbing Gristle This Heat Clock
dna Human League The Who Imagination 10 cc ... he back... Marcello
with the promised Shadows post, albeit cunningly embedded in a
discussion of Naked Maja's 100 best British albums. (Can't bring
myself to be interested in lists any more actually; I think I ingested
more than my lifetime's supply when I read Morley's Words and
Music...) (btw Marcello, like Simon, digging up Isn't Anything at the
expense of Loveless. I'm stunned by this: as I think I've said before,
listening now, Isn't Anything strikes me as obviously the precursor,
the prototype. It still bears the grubby traces of the indie
quotididian, its instruments all audible, analyzable, whereas Loveless
is schizophonic, its sounds globular, nondecomposable, unreliable to
any instrument, except guitar in the most abstract sense. M.i.a.
'Sunshowers' like arridge meets Bow Wow Wow a beat as implacably,
anempathically mechanic as that of 'I Love U', a sangspoken refrain as
dreamily addictive as anything off 'Mutant Disco'... Rachel Stevens
'Some Girls' finally heard it. It lives up to the hype and then
some... Does anyone understand Paul Virilio? I've just read Ground
Zero, a book which produced my usual response to Virilio's texts.
Individual sentences and even paragraphs make sense, but as a whole
book, it just doesn't add up. There's no thesis, or at least no thesis
that I am capable of detecting. virgilio butterfly leaps from Lenin to
Big Brother to Fritz Lang to bioethics... cizek does the same thing,
but there's always a readilyidentifiable consistency gluing Zizek's
diverse concerns together. Not so with Virilio, whose ultimate
preoccupations seem to be hermetically veiled. I always feel that
there's another text behind the one I'm reading, a text for initiates
in which the fragmentary puzzle I'm confronted with is solved. Art of
the motor? Art of the non sequitur more like... Contrary to what its
title implies, Ground Zero isn't really about 9/11. Rather, it is a
generalized complaint against against what, exactly? Well, it seems to
be a Procreationist assault against what he sees as contemporary
culture's Gnostic antinatalism. Virilio's catholicism is strongly in
evidence in Ground Zero. He's appalled, for instance, that a French
court could award a disabled adolescent damages 'for the harm of being
born' whilst the same court ruled that 'the unborn child is not a
person.' Beyond that, I can't get much. Be interested in what others
think. I must say, though, I do heartily approve of these bite-sized
theory books. Hmm, look at their shape where could Verso have got the
idea from? Another new blog.... A new blow for the discussion of
superstition and related issues is now here. There are inaugural posts
from Linda Trent of Miskatonic Virtual University and Reza Negarestani
of Cold Me, with posts from Nick Land, Anna Greenspan and Steve
Hyperdub of cru to follow. This should be a major resource for the
exploration of hyperstitional theory and practice. For those wanting
an introduction to hyperstition, I would thoroughly recommend the
Ccru's essay on Burroughs and hyperstition, 'Lemurian Time War',
(recently published in RETAKING THE UNIVERSE: William S. Burroughs in
the Age of Globalization, Pluto Press 2004). Anyone who feels they
would like to contribute should mail here. Special thanks, once again,
to the wonderful Abe for hosting the blow (and for invaluable
assistance setting it up), and to Boris and Reza for all their efforts
in getting it off the ground. Oliver with the other thing at which he
excels; an elegant, evocative prosepoem, this time about his recent
recent trip to Swansea. Tim on Morrissey I'll come back on this Not
that I'm complaining. To the question, 'where does that leave Eric
Dolphy?' there' only one answer, of course.... P.S. It's not the World
Cup, MC... After yesterday's astonishing revelations that Saddam
Hussein almost certainly had nothing to do with the attack on the
World Trade Centre comes the shocking news that the public/private
partnership for the London Underground has been grossly inefficient,
expensive and has failed to produce any improvements. Who would have
thought it? I'm sure you'll all join me in congratulating the
wonderful Baal on a year's brilliant blogging. Consistently excellent,
beautifully poetic you know the score. A little shamefaced about my
tardiness here, but Loveecstasycrime and police added to the
blogroll... Or, how Hank Marvin led to Lee Perry (Attention, Paul
Meme) Chris Cutler, File Under Popular: Theoretical and Critical
Writings on Music: 'The Shadows exemplified and perfected a form which
was to have a far more profound effect on British Rock Music than the
song form this was the Instrumental. ... In the Instrumental, ... it
was, crucially, less the melody than the sound that mattered most.
Each tune could have its own 'voice', using stopped or damped strings,
echo, the tremolo arm, tone filters, different pickups, different
plectra, electric techniques for making quiet sounds very loud, and so
on. For a long time the Instrumental was the field of discovery, and
of most amateur group work; the instruments after all had to 'speak
for themselves' and their voices had to be discovered. It had the
excitement of a Terra Nova. Instrumental groups sprouted out of every
classroom. The instruments were still easy, the form much more
exciting and uncharted than Skiffle, and it was fun. And everybody
complained about the noise you made rehearsing and horrible and
cacophonous the music was and if you were lucky you could get to play
a wedding or a youth club or a hospital dance. I have dwelt on this
because it seems to me that it laid the foundation of so much to come
that was uniquely British. After all, it was the beginning, it was
where amongst young people in Britain, there emerged a generation of
musicians of a new type. And it has always been glossed by pop
historians and 'experts' as a mere tribituary. The internal dynamic
was different. In Britain, it was here, in the Instrumental that the
hegemony of the electric guitar was established as the voice of Rock
music, here that many of the new forms appropriate to electric
instruments were mapped, and here that the music was carried deep into
nonblack and non-american styles by excited, untrained, autodidact
teenagers.' Be nice to have a non-english presence on e6000 e6000 is
now up and running..... Just a reminder for those who want to post: 1.
Go to http://www.blogger.com 2. Log in using the user name markkpunk
and the password switch 3. Post away! 4. Remember to put your name at
the bottom of the post so we can see who you are. 1. He's a voice.
It's unmistakeable, isn't it, the Carlinstyle? 2. Where else can you
see Roger Whittaker and Dollar treated as serious reference points?
(I'm not mocking; I love them both.) 3. MC's posts so often leaving
you liking your lips in anticipation. A friend of mine used to call
Church of Me 'Church of I've Got to Have That'. 4. Even if Marcello's
writing doesn't cure his own depression, it does wonders for mine. 5.
Depth and breadth of knowledge plus lightness of touch. A winning
combination. 6. Who else would have the good sense and good taste to
point out that 'Total Eclipse of the Heart' is a brilliant record? 7.
Rosie Vela. 8. The Joe Meek post invented a whole new genre. (First kp
alternate history of pop post to come some time soon.) 9. Even if 95%
of music today is crap, 5% is still an awful lot of stuff to write
about. 10. So much still to say. So many years still to cover.
Excellent. To prevent kp from being clogged up by Euro 2004 posts, and
to allow them as wants to to ignore it, I've come up with a wheeze.
I've set up a Euro 2004 blow on logger as a space to discuss the
tournament as it unfolds. It'd be great if other people joined in and
posted calling Scott and Phillip especially! Anyway, it's called e6000
and can be found here. If you want to post, simply go here. I've
started the ball rolling, so: all welcome. ps If you're gonna post,
remember to put your name at the bottom so we know who you are...
"...I was a Flower of the mountain yes when I put the rose in my hair
like the Andalusian girls used or shall I wear a red yes and how he
kissed me under the Moorish wall and I thought well as well him as
another and then I asked him with my eyes to ask again yes and then he
asked me would I yes to say yes my mountain flower and first I put my
arms around him yes and drew him down to me so he could feel my
breasts all perfume yes and his heart was going like mad and yes I
said yes I will Yes. " Land: 'Cyberpunk is too wired to
concentrate...' There's been a slightly valedictory air on the blows
of late, prompted by Matt's open-ended vacation, Marcello's
announcement of yet another retirement (back soon, but, with any luck,
not for the Glass Spider tour) and Simon's recent enforced absence.
Simon and Matt's semi-retirement has had its positive effects, if only
to demonstrate the strength and tenacity of the network. I prefer the
term 'network' to 'community' for a number of reasons. (The word
'community' always has a sinister, authoritarian taint for me. Have
you noticed how it is always mobilized in the pathologically nebulous
logic of differentiation at work in the mainstream news media? We hear
about the 'black community', the 'gay community'; these groups, unlike
'us', the interrelated normative mass, always have 'leaders' and
'spokesman'. But that's another story...) Some, notably Marcello, have
bristled at the notion that they are included in a community. But the
very fact that it features hyperlinks (and is linked to) means that
Naked mama is a node in a network. Simon was such a crucial lynchpin
in the formation of the network, yet it's clear now that it is a
genuine rhizome (for 'network' read 'rhizome'), no longer requiring a
central focus or head. Simon's rep as a writer gave the network its
initial 'charismatic seeding', drawing in readerswriters with
disparate interests . An example: Oliver and Luka started reading punk
because of links from Blissblog, both then started reading each other
and became involved in the glorious heronboneworldwarfour becoming
that has been so fruitful over the past year. John is right,
naturally, to call for more distribution, less concentration. The
internet was founded on this very principle (the military realising
that its data network would be more robust if it was instantiated in
multiple terminals). Yet I don't recognize the homogeneity John
bemoans. All of the blows I read are wonderfully idiosyncratic
(Heronbone, Crumbling Loaf and Erase the World, to name but three, are
absolutely unique, unlike anything to be found in print). I must
admit, I don't spend much time reading 'review blogs'; what I want
from blows is best provided by those which exploit the form's capacity
for digression. What I want from blows is what I want from culture in
general vision, the coordinates for experiencing the world in a
(re)newed way. Also in respect of John's remarks, I think we need to
be careful of Oedipalizing the relationship between blogs; of
conceiving of certain blows as 'fathers' whose influence needs to be
violently overthrown (a la Harold Bloom's anxiety of influence
thesis). The relationship is much more lateral. And in any case, there
are new buds emerging on the rhizome all the time: the female
philosophy offshoot comprised by Glueboot, Infinite Thought and And So
It's Christmas is a particularly welcome new development, for
instance. The pro/amateur thing is a bit of a red herring in my view.
There is the same distinction on the blogosphere as there is in the
mainstream media: there are hacks and there are writers (just as in
the academy, there are academics and intellectuals). The difference is
not to do with whether you're remunerated for what you do, but whether
you feel a genuine compulsion to produce it, if you experience an
obligation to write that goes beyond simply having to pay the bills.
One of the interesting things to come out of Marcello's otherwise
unedifying hectoring of Dave in the World of telfos comments box was
the clear message coming from both of them that they don't blow as
some sort of compensation for 'failing' to be professional writers. As
a matter of fact, both Dave and Marcello are professional writers,
even if both also hold day jobs. It's clear, particularly in
Marcello's case, that the only space that they can develop ideas at
any length or with any idiosyncratic verve is on the internet. The
print media is simply too crowded, too hidebound by all sorts of
demographic and marketing pressures for anything of much cultural
import to occur on it. While I make no bones that I would rather spend
more time writing than teaching, what I feel for most music
journalists, most of the time, is pity, not envy. Of course, I still
find myself checking prejudices in my assumptions about what counts as
'proper' writing. But what was once my default inclination to regard
blow writing as secondary to work that is 'properly published', that
has 'permanence', or is 'finished' is increasingly less insistent. The
aphoristic, necessarily unfinished nature of the blow text is what
separates it from the print form . I have to keep reminding myself of
why the blow is called punk in the first place, and why cru spent so
much time theorising the potential of cyberspace. We're living through
exciting times, and blows are part of that, one of the k(yber)punk
cultural developments. As I said in tribute to Luka last year: "It's
not supposed to 'fit together', to finally 'cohere', it's a
(dis)assembly kit, it's writing in the aphoristic mode, writing as a
part object, an object intrinsically hostile to wholeness, a series of
holes in good sense, it's not One...That way, it is left open...... a
directed outpouring from the unconscious, with its own rules, its own
rhythms, its own singularity........ And this is what punk is not
amateurism, not destruction for its own sake but systematic
antiprofessionalism " Speaking for myself, for better or worse, I have
to write. So, no, I'm not ready to be torn apart by the primal horde
yet. I'm sticking around, and I hope you are too. There are at least
two reasons to be thankful to the UK Independence Party. The first,
and most obvious, is that they have stymied the Tory revival under
Michael Howard. But more importantly, they have split the Far Right
vote, and in quite a significant way. The BNP have put all their
resources into emphasising immigration. Immigration and asylum were
the only issues mentioned on the charming BNP leaflets we had
delivered to our flats (thankfully they were left in the lobby
downstairs, so no prizes for guessing where they ended up). (btw, I
wasn't sure whether to be amused or appalled at the BNP's claim that
the government is planning FIVE CITIES the SIZE OF BIRMINGHAM to
accomodate the MASSIVE INFLUX of asylum seekers.) The emergent UKIP,
on the other hand, has emphasised sovereignty and EU corruption. Now
this means that two issues that are usually conflated in the racist
imaginary immigration and sovereignty have actually been separated.
This can only be a positive thing. Nick Gutterbreakz on reflex Grime
and also Fennesz. In answer to Nick's question, no I haven't heard the
new fences album, nor anything much by him. Junior Boys' producer Matt
didymus gave heavy praise to Fennesz' Endless Summer when he was over
in the UK recently. Sadly, this is only available on import, I think.
But it's definitely on my wish list.... Land: "The infrastructure of
power is human neurosoft compatible ROM. Authority instantiate itself
as linear instruction pathways, genetic baboonery, scriptures,
traditions, rituals, and gerontocratic hierarchies, resonant with the
dominated myth that the nature of reality has already been decided."
Further to our discussion of the end of multiculturalism Oliver comes
up trumps again with a discussion of the House of Saud. This more than
ever reinforces my conviction that energy is a security issue. Energy
has been kept peripheral to the mainstream political agenda by the
perception that it is (merely?) an ethical matter, (and therefore) a
luxury, not as immediately pressing as defence or economic issues. The
American oil lobby, with Bush as their figurehead, have been of course
happy to encourage this perception. Yet this is all shorttermism,
capitalism's most persistent vice. In thirty years, the oil will run
dry. What then? Also, I think opposition to the alliance with the
Saudis is something else that Paul walkowitz has in his favour. My
understanding was that Wolfowitz, along with a number of advisers to
Bush Jr, have long warned about the dangers and the undesirability of
costing up to the House of Saud. It's the group surrounding Bush Sr
who favour a continued alliance with the corrupt dynasty. btw an
entreaty, in the vain hope that someone in the mainstream media is out
there capable of acting upon it: someone please employ Oliver as a
columnist. Look at these piece: like all of his political writing,
it's spectacularly well-informed and researched, eloquently and
erudite written, and advocates a unique opinion. All of this while he
works fulltime in a fucking bookshop! Pleased to have contributed to
the and so this is christmasglueboot becoming... Hitchens: 'I only saw
him once up close, which happened to be when he got a question he
didn't like. Was it true that his staff in the 1980 debates had stolen
President Carter's briefing book? (They had.) The famously genial grin
turned into a rictus of senile fury: I was looking at a cruel and
stupid lizard. His reply was that maybe his staff had, and maybe they
hadn't, but what about the leak of the Pentagon Papers? Thus, a secret
theft of presidential documents was equated with the public disclosure
of needful information. This was a man never short of a cheap jibe or
the sort of falsehood that would, however laughable, buy him some
time.' 'At the 1980 Republican Convention in San Francisco, pranksters
reproduced and distributed the section of The Atrocity Exhibition
called Why I want to Fuck Ronald Reagan, without the title and adorned
with the Republican Party seal. Im told, Ballard reports, that it was
accepted for what it resembled, a psychological position paper on the
candidates subliminal appeal, commissioned from some maverick think
tank. What does this neoDadaist act of would-be subversion tell us? In
one sense, it has to be hailed as the perfect act of subversion. But,
viewed another way, it shows that subversion is impossible now. The
fate of a whole tradition of ludic intervention passing from the
Dadaists into the Surrealists and the Situationists seems to hang in
the balance. Where once the Dadaists and their inheritors could dream
of invading the stage, disrupting what Burroughs still very obviously
a part of this heritage calls the reality studio with logic bombs, now
there is no stage no scene, Baudrillard would say to invade. For two
reasons: first, because the frontier zones of hypercapital do not try
to repress so much as absorb the irrational and the illogical, and,
second, because the distinction between stage and offstage has been
superseded by a coolly inclusive loop of fiction: Reagans career
outstrips any attempt to radically lampoon it, and demonstrates the
increasingly liability of the boundaries between the real and its
simulations. For Baudrillard, the very attacks on reality mounted by
groups such as the Surrealists function to keep the real alive (by
providing it with a fabulous, dream world, ostensibly entirely
alternative to but in effect dialectically complicit with the everyday
world of the real) . Surrealism was still in solidarity with the real
it contested, but which it doubled and ruptured in the imaginary. In
conditions of third (and fourthorder) simulacra, the giddy vertigo of
hyperreality banalities a coolly hallucinogenic ambience, absorbing
all reality into simulation. Fiction is everywhere and therefore, in a
certain sense, eliminated as a specific category. Where once Reagans
own role as actorpresident seemed novel, his subsequent career, in
which moments from film history become montage in Reagans own hazy
memory and in media accounts with Reagans role in particular movies.
The ludic becomes the ludicrous. The apparent acceptance, by the
Republican delegates, of the genuineness of the Why I Want to Fuck
Ronald Reagan text, is both shocking and oddly predictable, and both
responses are in fact a testament to the power of Ballards fictions,
which resides no more in their ability to mimetically reflect a
preexisting social reality than it does in their capacity to
imaginatively overturn it. What Ballard achieves, rather, is what Iain
HamiltonGrant calls realism about the hyperreal, a homeopathic
participation in the mediacybernetization of reality in late
capitalism. The shock comes when we remind ourselves of (what would
seem to be) the radical abeyance of Ballards material. Why I Want to
Fuck Ronald Reagan, like many of the sections of The Atrocity
Exhibition, particularly in the latter part of the novel, is presented
as a report on experiments into audience responses to prepared media
stimuli. Ronald Reagan and the conceptual autodisaster. Numerous
studies have been conducted upon patients in terminal parents
(G.P.I.), placing Reagan in a series of simulated autocrashes, e.g.
multiple pileups, head on collisions, motorcade attacks (fantasies of
Presidential assassinations remained a continuing preoccupation,
subjects showing a marked polymorphic fixation on windshield an
reartrunk assemblies). Powerful erotic fantasies of an analsadistic
character surrounded the image of the Presidential contender. But this
shock is counterposed by a sense of predictability arising from the
cool elegance of Ballards simulations. The technical tone of Ballards
writing its impersonality and lack of emotional inflection perform the
function of neutralizing or normalizing the ostensibly unacceptable
material. Is this simulation of the operations of Hypercontrol
agencies a satire on them, or do their activities and the whole
cultural scene of which they are a part render satire as such
impossible now? What, after all, is the relationship between satire
and simulation? To begin to answer that question we need to compare
Ballards text with other, more definitively satirical texts. Before
that, though, we need to bear in mind Jamesons comments on the eclipse
of parody by pastiche, which we shall examine, briefly, now. This is
not the place to interrogate the differences between parody and
satire; we shall proceed on the assumption that, whatever differences
there are between parody and satire, they share enough in common so as
to be jointly subject to Jamesons analyses. Parody, Jameson argues,
depended upon a whole set of resources available to modernism but
which have faded now: the individual subject, whose inimitable
idiosyncratic style, Jameson wryly observes, could precisely gave rise
to imitations; a strong historical sense, which has its necessary
obverse a confidence that there is a genuinely contemporary means of
expression; and a commitment to collective projects, which could
motivate writing and give it a political purpose. As these disappear,
Jameson suggests, so does the space of parody. Individual style gives
way to a field of stylistic and discursive heterogeneity without a
norm, just as the belief in progress and the faith that one could
describe new times in new terms wanes, to be replaced by the imitation
of dead styles, speech through all the masks and voices stored up in
the imaginary museums of a new global culture. Late capitalisms
postliteracy, meanwhile, points to the absence of any great collective
project. What results, according to Jameson, is a deathless
experience, in which the past is everywhere at the same time as the
historical sense fades; we have a society bereft of all historicity
that is simultaneously unable to present anything that is not a
reheated version of the past. Pastiche displaces parody:In this
situation, parody finds itself without a vocation; it has lived, and
that strange new thing pastiche comes to take its place. Pastiche is,
like parody, the imitation of a peculiar or unique, idiosyncratic
style, the wearing of a linguistic mask, speech in a dead language.
But it is a neutral practice of such mimicry, without any of parodys
ulterior motives, amputated of the satiric impulse, devoid of laughter
and of any conviction that alongside the abnormal tongue you have
momentarily borrowed, some healthy linguistic normality still exists.
Pastiche is thus blank parody, a statue with blind eyeballs [...]
Despite what Jameson himself writes on Ballard, one of the important
difference between the Ballard text and pastiche as Jameson describes
it is the absence of nostalgia or the nostalgia mode an insistent
presence in other postmodernist science fiction texts, as Jameson
shows in Ballards work. Indeed, Ballards commitment to striking
textual innovations as evidenced in the layout of the pages themselves
in The Atrocity Exhibition mark him as something of an anomaly in
Jamesons terms; in this sense, at least, Ballard seems to be
continuous with modernism as Jameson understands it. Yet in certain
other respects specifically, in terms of the collapse of individual
subjectivity and the failure of collective political action Ballard is
emblematic of Jamesons postmodernity. But, unlike Jamesons pastiche,
Ballard does not imitate a peculiar or unique idiosyncratic style. The
style that Ballard simulates in Why I Want to Fuck Ronald Reagan a
style towards which the whole of The Atrocity Exhibition tends is
precisely lacking in any personality: if there any idiosyncracies,
they belong to the technical register of (pseudo)scienfitic reportage,
not to the characteristics of an individual subject. The fact that the
text concerns a political leader draws attention to the lack of any
explicit or, more importantly when discussing satire or pardody,
implicit political teleology in Ballards writing. It is in this sense
that Why I Want to Fuck Ronald Reagan, like Jamesons pastiche, is
without any of parodys ulterior motives. Certainly, this is one way in
which Why I Want to Fuck Ronald Reagan differs greatly from a
classical work of satire such as Swifts Modest Proposal. A Modest
Proposal is a paradigmatic work of what Joyce called kinetic art,
produced in particular political and cultural circumstances with a
particular aim,to sway an audience into action. Swifts political
purpose his disparaging of the cruelty of certain English responses to
the Irish potato famine is marked by a certain stylistic and thematic
excess (an excess that famously bypassed altogether certain of Swifts
readers, who were able to take the text at face value), whereas
Ballards text which emerged, no less than Swifts, from a very
particular sociocultural situation can be defined by its flatness.
This marks a move on, (even) from Burroughs. For all their linguistic
inventiveness, Burroughs humorous routines such as The all-american
Deanxietized Man remain in a classical tradition of satire through
their use of exaggeration and their clear political agenda: using a
series of excessive tropes, Burroughs mocks the amoral mores of
American technoscience. By contrast, what Ballards text lacks is any
clear designs on the reader, any of Jamesons ulterior motives; the
parodic text always gave central importance to the paradise behind it,
his implicit but flagged attitudes and opinions, but Why I Want to
Fuck Ronald Reagan is as coldly anonymous as the texts it imitates.
Whereas we hear Burroughs cackling at the absurd excesses of the
scientists in The all-american Deanxietized Man, the response of
Ballard to the scientists whose work he simulates is unreadable. What
does Ballard want the reader to feel: disgust? amusement? It is
unclear, and, as Baudrillard argues in relation to Crash, it is
somewhat disingenuous of Ballard the author to overcome his texts in
prefatory authorial remarks with all the traditional baggage of
warning that they themselves clearly elude. The mode Ballard adopts in
Why I Want to Fuck Ronald Reagan is not that of (satirical)
exaggeration, but is a kind of (simulated) extrapolation. The very
genre of the poll or the survey, as Baudrillard shows, makes the
question unanswerable, undecidable. Despite what Ballard himself
suggests, (see above), what matters is less the (possible) resemblance
of Why I Want to Fuck Ronald Reagan to (possible) reports than the
circulation of simulation to which such reports already contribute.
Writing on pastiche, Jameson comes upon the concept of simulation, but
attributes it to Plato rather than referring here at least to
Baudrillards invention of it. Yet Jamesons intuition about the
relationship between pastiche and simulation is important. We could
perhaps suggest a correlation between Baudrillards third order
simulacra and Jamesons pastiche, on the one hand, and Ballards text on
the other. What simulation in Baudrillards third-order sense entails
is, as we have repeatedly insisted, the collapse of distance between
the simulation and what is simulates. Satire, in its classical sense,
we would probably want to locate as part of Firstorder simulacra a
simulation that resembles the original, but with certain telltale
differences. Ballard simulates the simulation (the poll, the survey).'
flailing Constructs, Chapter Four. Brian Massumi: '[W]hat is
astonishing is that Reagan wasn't laughed and jeered off the campaign
podium, and was swept into office, not once but twice. It wasn't that
people didn't hear his verbal fumbling or recognize the incoherence of
his thoughts. They were the butt of constant jokes and news stories.
And it wasn't that what they lacked on the the level of verbal
coherence was glossed over by the seductive fluency of his body image.
Reagan was more famous for his polyps than his poise, and there was a
collective fascination with his faltering health and regular shedding
of bits and pieces of himself. The only conclusion is that Reagan was
an effective leader not in spite of but because of his double
dysfunction. He was able to produce ideological effects by non-
ideological means, a global shift in the political direction of the
United States by falling apart. His means were affective. ... Reagan
operationalized the virtual in postmodern politics. Alone, he was
nothing approaching an ideologue. He was nothing, an idiocy musically
coupled with an incoherence. But, that's a bit unfair. He was an
incipience. He was unqualified and without content. But, his incidence
was prolonged by technologies of image transmission and then relayed
by apparatuses such as the family or the church or the school or the
chamber of commerce, which in conjunction with the media acted as part
of the nervous system of a new and frightening body politic. It was on
the receiving end end that the Reagan incidence was qualified, given
content. Receiving apparatuses fulfilled the inhibitory, imitative
function. They selected one line of movement, one progression of
meaning, to actualize and implant locally. That is why Reagan could be
so many things to so many people; that is why the majority of the
electorate could disagree with him on major issues but still vote for
him. because was actualized, in their neighbourhood, as a movement and
meaning of their selection or at least selected for them with their
acquiescence. He was man for all inhibitions.' I remember, I remember
The school where I was born; I remember, I remember, The school where
I was ..... torn. Nietzsche: 'And nowadays what else does education
and culture want! In our age of the peopleI mean our uncouth
ageeducation and culture must basically be the art of deception, to
mislead about the origin of the inherited rabble in ones body and
soul.' Dennis Potter's Stand Up, Nigel Barton, shown as part of BBC
4's Summer of the Sixties season, is still almost too painful to
watch. Here is Potter writing a television play which draws very
closely upon his experiences as a scholarship boy, projected out of
his class into the rarefied world of Oxford. 'Stand Up, Nigel Barton'
was actually written after 'Vote, Vote, Vote for Nigel Barton',
Potter's fictionalised account of his failed attempt to become elected
as a Labour MP. To Potter's disgust, 'Vote, Vote, Vote' was suppressed
by the BBC, but its temporary banning allowed him to work again with
the characters he had invented, writing this prequel which would be
shown first. English fiction has always been ambivalent about social
mobility. Potter's theme was very much one with which the sixties
would be preoccupied, in music as much as drama. consider the Kinks
('Rosy, won't you please come home', 'See my friends/ they cross the
river') or the Who ('I was born with a plastic spoon in my mouth').
Like Dickens' Pip, Nigel is profoundly torn; unwilling to give up the
privilege and status he has newly acquired, unable to accept and enjoy
them as one to the manner born, simultaneously holding onto his roots
and repudiating them, never forgetting where he has come from, but
ashamed of the stains that his origins have left upon him. And ashamed
of that shame. Never comfortable amongst the masters, but no longer at
home in the community which produced him. Forty years on, and the
screen still crackles with rage, confusion and embarrassment. Potter
intercut between the working men's club, bedrock of the proletarian
community, with its 'suffocating affection' but deep suspicion,
resentment and distrust of those who leave; and the smug redoubt of
the Oxford Union, whose louche members idly trade bon mots ('Oxford,'
as Nigel observes in his somewhat too histrionic style, 'where nothing
really matters', where a dissolute, ironic detachment is the mark of a
gentleman, and where Nigel's very passion marks him out as not quite
right.) Who can watch the final scene Nigel at home with his parents,
watching himself being interviewed on television about class without
cringing? What Nigel says about his father 'watching him like a hawk',
about 'walking a tightrope', about class only being experienced by
those who move between classes; none of this is a distortion. And yet,
Nigel is too much in love with his own cleverness, too much attached
to the role of alienated working class boy that he has been invited to
play. He knows he has betrayed his parents. His father, ambivalent
about him at the best of times, both proud and resentful, simmers; his
mother, uncomprehending, weeps 'But it's clean. You could eat off the
floor here...' Potter shows that he can do naturalism painfully and
powerfully. But he's already exploring more expressionistic
techniques: playing with chronology, breaking the frame (adults
playing children, characters speaking directly to camera). The origin
of the famous classroom scene in The Singing Detective is here, with
Janet henry taking on the role of the terrifyingly inquisitorial,
witch-like schoolmistress she will reprise in the later play. The
performances, especially Keith Barron as Nigel and Jack Woolgar as his
father, are universally superb. No need to reiterate, by now, my
lament for TV drama this challenging, this neartheknuckle, this
relevant. But what a nihilistic message Potter conveys. There is
nothing to aspire to, nothing you'd want to return to. Nigel trapped
and alone, forever alone... "With Stand Up, Nigel Barton I knew that
in small family groupings that is, at their most vulnerable both
coalminers and Oxford dons would probably see the play. This could add
enormously to the potency of a story which attempted to use the
specially English embarrassment about class in a deliberately
embarrassing series of confrontations. In the theatre or, at least, in
the West End the audience would have been largely only on one side of
this particular fence. There is no other medium which could virtually
guarantee an audience of millions with a full quota of manual workers
and stockbrokers for a 'serious' play about class." Heronbone: May 24
(excuse note accepted, in NZ)Woebot: May 13 (leave period officially
OVER: expected back online forthwith)Blissblog: May 16 (needs new
medical certificate; how's the thumb Simon?)House at World's End: May
08 (erratic as ever)Pillbox: March 27 (extended truanting; just not
good enough) Messrs Ingram and Reynolds should note that it is very
nearly a MONTH since they last showed their faces. Cronenberg's Spider
warning: contains spoilers Interviewer: It's hard to see this movie
and not consider that all our memories are creations. Cronenberg: But
they are, they totally are. My review of the reflex Grime LP is now up
on Stylus. (Kp readers may notice some uh recycled elements from the
blog, but if you've said what you wanted to say first time round, why
change, eh?) Which one is worse, do you think? The phil Mike
Yarwooding of 'Wild Boys' (if it's on in the background, you can
forget for a moment that it's not DD; everything, everything is the
same, the arrangement, the vocals...) Whoever it is who's done
'Alright Now'... What exactly is the point in this? The
recarnivalization of the postmodern? Chuck Barris, Charlie Kaufman and
punkjunk TV. For better or worse, Chuck harris is the architect of
some of our most controversial contemporary popculture. For non-
american readers or British readers who didnt watch teatime Channel 4
during the eighties, a word of explanation is required. harris was a
TV producer who dreamt up The Dating Game (which would become Mr and
Mrs in Britain), The newlyweds Game (UK version: Blind Date) and, most
notoriously of all, The Gong Show (forerunner of reconditioned talent
show such as Pop Idol and of reality TV). (A British triumvirate from
TV Hell: Derek Batey  Cilla Black  Ant n Dec.) The Gong Show was like
the first week of Pop Idol, forever: all the abjects, braggarts,
borderline psychotics, terminally selfdeluded maniacs and kookoos, not
as the prelude to the main act, but as the principal attraction. It
was a nontalent show, in which a parade of no-hopers would be given a
taste of exposure on coast-to-coast TV. They were allowed 45 seconds
to present their act unmolested; after that, they could be longed by
the celebrity panel, in which case they would be removed from the
stage with as little ceremony as possible. Those that survived would
be awarded a mark out of ten by the panel . In fact, its only on the
most superficial level thatThe Gong Show anticipated Pop Idol. Pop
Idol polices a rigorouslyenforced reality principle which assumes that
what is possible and what is valuable are fixed and determined for all
time (what it must repress is the ability of hypemechanics to melt all
certainties, to machine new potentials; the reality principle is
predicated upon the denial of the fact that reality is not governed by
principles of any kind). The Gong Show was a carnivalesque
detournement, a riotous kingdom of misrule in which traditional values
were inverted and ridiculed; the few genuinely talented acts
represented a worthy competence that could not but appear paltry next
to the demented exuberance of the freaks. By contrast, Pop Idol
unproblematically hawks the dominant managerialist values of success,
the achievement of which, we are assured, requires conformity to an
predetermined (and popdemographically reinforced) profile. And while
Pop Idol acts as an organ of the mainstream Entertainment and Music
industries, harris fought a running battle with the veeps in control
of corporate television. He was almost certainly the first to grasp
the two premises on which todays reality TV operates: (1) ordinary
people will do anything to get on television; and (2) those same
ordinary people can be more entertaining than professionals. Theres a
whole thesis to be written about how the very same features which
Bakhtin defines as characteristic of the carnivalesque  festive
pleasure, the world turned topsyturvy, destruction and creation
extravagant juxtapositions, the grotesque mixing and confrontations of
high and low, upper-class and lowerclass, spiritual and material,
young and old, male and female, daily identity and festive mask,
serious conventions and their parodies. became neutered and
conservative when redeployed by PoMo. In PoMo, the complement of
irreverence is always cynicism. But there was no self-satisfied irony
in The Gong Show. And that was due in no small part to Barris
personality. harris was at the heart of The Gong Show. He didnt only
conceive the programme, he presented it too, after both he and the
studio agreed that the standard smarmy bulkhead gameshow host theyd
lined up would be way too literal-minded to make the concept fly.
Shabby, ludic and inept, harris nevertheless radiated a charming,
irrepressible joy. Barris, the Prince of Fools, was simply too
conspicuously incompetent, too weird, to smugly pass judgement on the
acts. (This is another way in which The Gong Show was much more
subversive than reality TV now; instead of the smirking Ant n Dec or
the maternal Davina McCall acting as representatives of the Norm, here
was Barris, at least as weird as any of the contestants, a Bizarro
where Normality should be.) If Barris persona was reminiscent of
anything it was the shambolic saintliness and hobo vitality of Peter
Falks Columbo (the only redeeming feature of Wenders portentous and
facile Wings of Desire was its perspicacious casting of Falk as an
angel). harris surrounded himself with a motley gang of grotesques,
eccentrics and fellow lovers of the absurd; the judging panel regulars
louche Village Voice toff Rex Reed; suggestive siren Jaye P. Morgan
and zany Jamie Farr (from M*A*S*H*) but most importantly his own crew
of neverevenwantedtobes, such as Gene Gene the Dancing Machine (a
pathetically inadequate but enthusiastic and winningly idiosyncratic
dancer, plucked like, many of Chucks entourage, and to the chagrin of
the studio, from the ranks of the stagehands), and the Unknown Comic
If anyone's tried to email via the punk account, I haven't been able
to receive mail through it for the past few days. God only knows why.
So apologies; I haven't been ignoring you, honest. The big posts are
on the way, I promise. For now, some more recommendations: Highly
interesting blow by someone called Richard Doyle, a US academic whose
interests in biology, postmodern capital and psychedelics dovetail
somewhat with those of the cru (especially Luciana's). He also has
tons of fascinatingly evolving texts up as 'wikis' (I'll level with
you I don't really understand what likes are at all), the most recent
of which can be accessed here. And So This Is Christmas blow looks
like it's a bit similar to the excellent Glueboot; lots of musing on
popculture and philosophy.... Should be encouraged to update more, by
the looks ot it. This piece critiquing hard and Negri's Empire (link
courtesy of H.U.H.) raises many pertinent and highly topical points.
Might write more about this later. Special request: does anyone out
there have a copy of Walter Cannon's essay 'Voodoo Death'? It's one of
my favourite things, but I can't for the life of me locate my copy...
I'm almost hoping England don't do so well if it means having to
endure the worthy plod of The Farm yet again. The Farm were nearly as
facile, fatuous and devoidoffunk as Faithless. Nearly. Three
predictions about the European Championship: France won't win it.
England won't lose to France. Spain will do nothing. (This last one
the easiest, if only I had a tenner for every time someone has
written, 'It's true that Spain have done nothing in any tournament
ever, for as long as football has existed, but this time...') As if to
confirm Dave's observations : coincidentally came upon Chris Roberts'
hilarious demolition of the briton album Live Forever (and what a
pathetically ironic title that is) from Uncut last year (opening line,
'If you can remember the '90s, you had mediocre taste in music'),
which concludes: 'The woeful Oasis and the meatandspuds Manics are
only topped for triteness by the risible Robbie Williams. The cheeky
chappy gang's all here perhaps someone else whose feebleness will be
chuckled at within two years, like Hirst or Emin, could be given a
hundred grand of our taxes to embalm them. They moved nothing or
noone. We've moved on.' My Junior Boys review is up on Stylus. Don't
think I'll have much time to post over the weekend, but, never fear,
megaposts coming up very soon on Cronenberg's Spider, Kaufman and
Clooney's Confessions of a Dangerous Mind, Fleetwood Mac, and
iconoclasm.... And, readers, notice how good I've been. Not one single
mention of B.. B....... (despite it being the most promising that is
to say, the most exploitative and unpleasant series so far). For words
of wisdom on this, look no further than the Loaf... Marcello
confirming once again, if there was any doubt about it, and in spite
of everything else, what a good writer he is. (Not sure I agree with
the idea that 'an Eng Lit student of Fitzwilliam' couldn't make a
spelling mistake, however.) OMG. 'Debbie Harry doing 'Strict Machine'
in the Tardis.' That's how Popjustice describes the new Rachel Stevens
single. And it's produced by Richard X. How good does that sound? Baal
in characteristically intense form, with a Baconesque description of
sweltering Glasgow.... Ah. That's what's happened to Spizzazzz. Here's
a first: a link to a blow with no content on it as of yet. Brian
Dillon's Laughter, Tears and Rage promises to be excellent if it lives
up to the promise of the published writings hyperlinked on the
sidebar. lots excellent stuff on Badiou, aphorisms, repetition,
Bataille... (Brian has also provided a beautifully eloquent comment to
the 'Goebbels' post below.) Dave telfos with a couple of bangor posts;
one uses the mozart fire as a jumping off point for a consideration of
the differences/ convergences between pop and visual art, i.e. when
you see a Mondrian, what song do you hear?; the other is a hymn in
praise of the latest Girls Aloud mistresspiece... (Look in Tom's
comments boxes btw for a link to a site with an mp of the single. It's
got Chris moles on it, but even that doesn't compromise its
magnificence). Oliver with a brilliantly incisive post on Iraq which
makes me reconsider my previous dismissal of Paul walkowitz and with a
wonderfully evocative account of what he did on his holidays. Here. My
favourite quote from the article, Claude Monet on being given
spectacles for his astigmatism: "If the world really looks like that I
will paint no more." Reminds me of that famous picture of the
surrealists, eyes defiantly closed against the 'paucity of reality'.
Well, that's me, Nick Southall, Sean Loaf and Mark Leach, member of
the council, the Pastel society (who wrote to the Times yesterday
saying that 'the majority of painters and craftsmen who have dedicated
their lives to exploring their visual aesthetic would happily warm
their hands over the dying embers of Britart') told, then, isn't it? I
have no wish to uh reigning the discussion of the merits of min et al
(which was, to my mind, concluded satisfactorily over at
Undercurrent). But Marcello's argument that anyone who isn't
especially upset about the destruction of art of any kind is in league
with the Nazis and the KKK in addition to exemplifying the slippery
slope fallacy, takes hyperbole well beyond the point of slander. It
presupposes the very point that needs to be established: namely, that
what was destroyed has value (value, that is, over and above the
material constituents or what it meant to the individuals who made or
owned it). Just because through having satisfied certain institutional
criteria something is deemed to be 'art' doesn't automatically mean it
is sacred. I certainly didn't suggest that the fire was a good thing.
I just implied that I wasn't especially sad about certain of the
'works' going up in smoke. Is this to be extended to all forms of
culture? If, God forbid :), the masters of Robbie Williams' entire
back catalogue were destroyed, would I be required to shed a tear?
Well, sorry, I wouldn't. One of the most irritating aspects of Emin's
appearance on David Frost on Sunday was her petulant demand for
'respect'. She reported a conversation with a consoling Italian
friend, who'd marvelled at how hard it must be to be to an artist in
Britain. Julie Burchill doesn't always talk rubbish, and one of the
things she wrote that I've always remembered is her claim that Britain
is actually a very good country in which to be a writer (and, by
extension, an artist). Precisely because the public are so sceptical,
hostile and contemptuous towards culture. Default, unearned respect
for culture breeds a decadent cultural licentiousness in which any
amount of pretentious nonsense is encouraged and propagated. Britain's
more brutalism 'natural' (or, better, cultural) selection means that
cultural producers have to develop an inner strength, conviction and
self-reliance in order to survive and prosper. No producer should
expect 'respect' as a right. It's worth adding that min herself said
there were more important things to worry about (kids dying in Iraq
etc) and the Chapmans' 'It's only art' has already become one of the
most quoted statements of the year. "I've always wanted to see London
with trees growing out of the streets and no traffic at all. I don't
like cars zooming around in London, think of all that road space being
turned into gardens where you could walk or cycle, I think it would be
a much nicer place to live." My friend Diane reminded me yesterday of
a remark Mrs Thatcher once made. "If I see a man over the age of
twenty-five on a bus," the architect of the 'Great Car Economy'
proclaimed, 'I think: there is someone who failed.'" Well, as someone
well over the age of twenty-five who is neither able to drive nor to
afford a car, there is yet another mark of my failure. It's no
accident that Thatcher should have made cars so central to her
political-economic project. The philosophical underpinning of
Thatcherism was 'methodological individualism' (the belief that the
individual, not the group, was the basic unit of social analysis,
which yielded her infamous dictum, 'There is no such thing as
society') and the automobile is the physical instantiation of that
ontology. By contrast, public transport, supposedly cramped and dirty,
was held to be a symptom and symbol of the collectivist vision which
had failed.* Tory supporter Gary Numan provided ThatcheriteReaganite
'minimal selfishness' with its uneasy hymn. 'Here in my car/ I can
lock all the doors.... I can only receive.' (Perhaps this goes some
way to accounting for the perpetual fascination that Numan's track has
exercised over the minimal selves in rap). A couple of years ago,
during the course of an encomium to his beloved suburbs written in the
Tate magazine, J. G. Ballard sneered at a London which he described as
a benighted, sluggish behemoth, its arteries clogged by traffic
crawling along at an average speed of 4 mph. He was right. While
there's a natural fit between suburbs designed and built with cars in
mind, providing quick and efficient access to the motorways, retail
parks and marinas of Ballard's Britain cars and London don't mix. The
streets in London, especially in North London, are cramped and narrow,
built for horses, not motor vehicles. The car keeps London gridlock
into a dysfunctional twentieth century, lending support for Ballard's
view that it is the suburbs, not the metropolises, which are the
harbingers of the future. The pedestrian finds the city an
inhospitable place, and not only because of the lack of public toilets
in central London. It's worse in the suburbs and retail parks where,
as in the States, walking marks you out as a dangerous social outcast.
As Iain Sinclair points out in some of the most hilarious pages in
London Orbital, if a pedestrian should manage to penetrate the
perilous labyrinth of roads enveloping Bluewater, they are treated as
some kind of aberration. All of this is a preamble to a cheer for the
congestion charge. Ken deserves a vote for this act of political
courage alone. I doubt that there is another policy in recent memory
which is so clearly in the public's longterm best interest but which
would inevitably meet with largescale popular opposition. Here was a
measure taken without regard for political expediency, and which could
easily have cost Livingstone his job, his reputation and his
popularity. The car lobby is the backbone of conservative middle
England, as Blair found out to his cost three years ago when he went
head to head with them in the fuel protests. Witness the likes of
Richard Littlejohn's incessant whingeing about the 'victimization' of
the motorist and the recent furore about speed cameras. (The same
people who insist on the letter of the law being applied without mercy
in the case of drug use somehow think drivers should be granted much
more latitude, as if speeding were a victimless crime). It's worth
comparing the status of motorists to that of smokers. Smokers are
increasingly treated as pariahs the ban on smoking in public places
instituted in many cities in America and imposed more recently in Eire
looks set to be adopted in Britain, and militants aside, most smokers
accept that smoking is a bad habit. But drivers are unrepetant,
convinced that driving is an inalienable right and an unquestionable
good. There is no doubt a place for cars. In suburban and rural areas,
where public transport is infrequent, they are indispensable. I enjoy
travelling on fast roads with music blasting from the stereo as much
as anyone else. But it's the default ubiquity of cars that must be
broken. There are so many arguments against cars. It's not only that
they pollute (with noise pollution an insidious but seldom considered
aspect of this: imagine how much more pleasant London would be without
the ceaseless, grim drone of traffic), there's also health to consider
(doesn't the recent hysteria over childhood obesity illustrate the
rightness of Ken's reported derision for parents driving kids to
schools in 4 by is most school journeys involve a distance of less
than a mile?) and even security (if the current crisis in Saudi Arabia
doesn't highlight the pressing need to investigate alternative sources
of energy, then I don't know what will). cizek refers somewhere to an
sf story in which, when travellers wind down the window of their car,
they find that the apparently vibrant social world outside disappears,
to be replaced by a blank void. When they wind the window up again,
the world returns. As cizek says, this captures the 'ontological
experience' of travelling in a car: the curious sense that the world
outside is a projection on a screen, a kind of videotape reality. But
it isn't. Walking through the city remains a pleasure, and would be an
even greater one if there were fewer cars. *Despite the constant
sniping, I don't actually share this view of public transport. It gets
me to work smartly every morning and gets me around London very
efficiently. Not that it especially the Tube couldn't be improved, of
course, but continually complaining about it just feeds the
complacency and triumphalism of the carocrats. Some really wonderful
comments, especially on the 'Nonorganic Memory' and 'Bonfire of the
Vanities' posts below. Anyone who's not read them should do so
forthwith. People, you're excelling yourselves. Special shout to the
great Padraig Henry, whose typically erudite culmination on the
'conservativepluralism' in current 'autistic circles' and on
'gawdening' is a masterpiece of invective. Yowser, as Morrissey would
say.Undercurrent returns after a brief hiatus with some typically
excellent posts. One on Jacques taxi and the photography of murky as
practitioners of 'subrealism'; and another which sets punk to rights.
Actually, that's way too reductive an account of a post which
embraces, with grace and eloquence, art, philosophy, blogging,
friendship and strategies for living. (Don't know why I'm recommending
Undercurrent really, because I assume that, by now, you're going there
automatically.) But it sure is quiet round here: what with Luke in NZ,
Matt robot off in Italy, Simon R in the treatment room with an injured
thumb (no kidding), and Penman apparently really gone for good this
time (but I'll never forget).... At least Sean Fascinating piece by
Abe (prompted by a great post steven shapiro about Ghostface's new
album) on hip hop mistakes (actually a misnomer, since, as Abe points
out, many of the 'tapes' are issued on CD and some involve no mixing
whatsoever). Abe argues that many hip hop artists effectively operate
in two economies: the legal, white economy, controlled and regulated,
and the more vivacious black economy, where samples are used without
permission. Anyone know what's happened to Spizzzazz? Popjustice is
right. The new Girls Aloud single is a treat and a triumph. Have you
heart it yet, Mr Carlin? Professor Barker: 'In Beyond the Pleasure
Principle, Freud takes a number of crucial initial steps towards
mapping the Geocosmic Unconscious as a traumatic megasystem, with life
and thought dynamically quantised in terms of inorganic tension,
elasticity, or machine plexion. This requires the
anorganizationalmaterialist retuning of an entire vocabulary: trauma,
unconscious, drive, association, (screen) memory, condensation,
regression, displacement, complex, repression, disavowal (e.g. the un
prefix), identity, and person. Deleuze and Guattari ask: Who does the
Earth think it is? It's a matter of consistency. Start with the
scientific story, which goes like this: between four point five and
four billion years ago during the haden epoch the earth was kept in a
state of superheated molten slag, through the conversion of
planetesimal and meteoritic impacts into temperature increase (kinetic
to thermal energy). As the solarsystem condensed the rate and
magnitude of collisions steadily declined, and the terrestrial surface
cooled, due to the radiation of heat into space, reinforced by the
beginnings of the hydrocycle. During the ensuing arches epoch the
molten core was buried within a crustal shell, producing an insulated
reservoir of primal exogenous trauma, the geocosmic motor of
terrestrial transmutation. And that's it. That's plutonics, or
neoplutonism. It's all there: inorganic memory, plutonic looping of
external collisions into interior content, impersonal trauma as
drivemechanism. The descent into the body of the earth corresponds to
a regression through geocosmic time.' Watching Quatermass and the Pit
again last week Nigel Kneale's masterpiece, and undoubtedly the best
film Hammer ever released I started to think, again, about memory,
trauma and the organism. The film is about an excavation in the
fictional London tube station of Hobbs End. Workers uncover what turns
out to be a Martian spaceship, filled with the corpses of repulsive
quasiinsect beings. Aliens, we think... Yet the genius of Kneale's
script is that the Martians turn out not to be aliens at all. Fleeing
the destruction of their own planet, the Martians had, five millions
years previously, interred with protohuman hominids in order to
perpetuate their species. So the distinction between alien and human
is fatally unsettled. As the Quatermass sequence progresses, the alien
has become increasingly intimate: The Quatermass experiment the aliens
are out in space; Quatermass II the aliens are already amongst us;
Quatermass and the Pit we are the aliens. grail Marcus devotes perhaps
the most fascinating and unexpected pages of Lipstick Traces to an
analysis of the film, under its US title, Five Million Years to Earth.
'Though there is no consciousness of the intervention,' he wrote,
'there is phylogenetic memory. Freud believed that modern people in
some fashion remember, as actual events, the parricide he thought
establish human society, and unconsciously preserve that memory in
otherwise inexplicably persistent myths and rituals; in Moses and
Monotheism he argued that, hundreds of years after the fact, the
Israelites carried a memory of their forebears' murder of a first
Moses, even though in oral and written tradition the event was
completely suppressed. In Five Million Years to Earth the argument is
that modern people remember step-parents who, with infinite patience,
set out to kill their progeny.' A darker version of the origin of
humanity story told in the nearcontemporaneous 2001*, Quatermass and
the Pit also shares much with Ballard's The Drowned World: most
importantly the theme of what Marcus calls 'phylogenetic memory'. As I
understand it and I'm really, really keen for someone who knows about
science to set me right here (Geeta???) there is no scientific basis
for this notion of 'phylogenetic memory'. Genes are a ROM transmission
system; the legacy that you will pass on to your offspring is already
determined before your birth (unless you are subject to mutation).
Experiences, learning culture cannon be directly passed on; such
lessons have to be learned anew by each generation. What then of
instincts? How do they fit in? Are instincts a kind of memory? With
Quatermass and the Pit, the memory is a 'literal' memory, a deeply
submerged but still accessible mental trace (triggered, in the film,
by the unearthing of the spaceship); with The Drowned World, the
'memories' are encoded in they physical form of the human being
itself, Ballard's famous 'spinal landscapes.' Quatermass and the Pit
is archaeological; The Drowned World, geological. Anticipating Deleuze
and Guattari's 'geology of morals' Ballard's innovation lay in
collapsing culture, psychology and biology into geology. Should we
refer to Ballard's 'spinal landscapes' as memories at all, or as
trauma records? Trauma is antimemory, non-organic memory, what the
organism cannon assimilate but which according to Freud makes possible
organic life as such. In non-organic systems, there is no distinction
between what is remembered and that which remembers; there is no
unalterable 'Judgements of God' ROM, just as there is no so
'recording' system that can't itself be 'recorded over'. Questions,
questions... *Although the Quatermass and the Pit story was, by then,
over a decade old. It had been filmed by the BBC back in 1956. Scott
directs our attention to this antibes thread on ILX. Only today, I was
walking across to the shops when I saw a discarded BNP leaflet on the
pavement. In Bromley. Don't know what the political history of this
area is, to be honest (nearby Eltham, of course, has an ignominious
reputation). Last week I was walking by Ladbroke Grove station where
people were giving out leaflets issued by Ken Livingstone. The point
was simple: he was requesting that we exercise our vote, not
necessarily for him or for the Labour Party, but for anyone apart from
the BNP, because current projections suggest that they will gain
enough of a percentage of the vote to gain representation on the
London assembly. Ordinarily I wouldn't vote. Not out of 'apathy', but
from principled disengagement. It always seemed to me that the only
way to in some small way remove legitimation from labour was to
increase the novotel statistic. But Ken's right. It's a duty to keep
fascists out. So I'll be voting and I hope everybody else will be too.
(BNP supporters excepted, naturally). Janet StreetPorter's infuriating
cake and eat it defence of min et al on Question Time just now we
should respect bas because they are popular AND we should defend them
against the derision of the masses. A perfect summation of the
confused mixture of populism and elitism that underlies the britain
aesthetic. Let's hope that the fire acts as a symbolic end to Britart.
So Jeanette Winterson says that only 'philistines' are celebrating the
Saatchi fire. 'The great strength of Brit Art in recent years is that
is has forced the debate on what art is and who it is for,' she
claims. Ah, debate. Who was it who said, 'Debate is idiot
distraction'? The sentiments Robin quotes from Deleuze couldn't be
more apposite. "[P]hilosophy has absolutely nothing to do with debate,
its difficult enough just understanding the problem someones framing
and how theyre framing it, all you should ever do is explore it, play
around with the terms, add something, relate it to something else,
never debate it. Because once one ventures outside whats familiar and
reassuring, once one has to invent new concepts for unknown lands then
thinking becomes, as Foucault puts it, a perilous act, a violence
whose first victim is oneself." Or, as Robin himself put it, in
connection with I'm a Celebrity Get Me Out of Here: "I have some
creeping sense that by being drawn into serious debate about these
things one is merely contributing to their reflexive self-image as
important cultural beacons. Isn't it a waste of mental energy, for
people who have some, to devote it to analysing this stuff?" The
britain debate, such as it is, was begun and ended with the r.mutt
urinal nearly a century ago. Duchamp established once and for all that
the object is irrelevant; anything can be a work of art. End of. Or it
should have been: instead, we've been subject to ninety years of
tedious recapitulation in which the radicality of Duchamp's insight
has been garbled. If Duchamp's original gesture was liberator
'anything can be art, lose your hang-ups about categorization' its
take-up by his adherents has been relentlessly conservative and
restrictive. Now, art can only be 'about art', a boring metadiscourse.
The more interesting conclusion to draw from Duchamp's jest was Brian
Eno's: that art is less about the object, and everything to do with
affect. It is not the art object, but the art experience to which we
should pay attention. But this ability to produce affect shouldn't be
confused with the capacity to 'inspire' mindless chitchat. A cheap
reversal perhaps, but it's Winterson, not the straw men she attacks,
who is peddling the worse kind of philistinism. Winterson happily
advocates the empty platitude propagated by Kapital at its most
vulgraizing that art is a kind of PR event. What is important, it
seems, is 'that people are talking.' On this definition, art is in
noise different from reality TV. There's nothing 'perilous' about min
or Hirst; no hint of 'unknown lands'. The appropriate analogy would be
Tarantino; someone who didn't create the taste by which he was judged,
but who simply hung onto the coat-tails of previous trailblazers. With
the Britartists, as with Tarantino, controversy really means
'controversy': a tried and tested resisting of already exhausted
strategies that are just as knee-jerk as the response they elicit.
Such posturing causes minimum discomfort to the artist, who, in the
very moment that they are being vilified (and, naturally, gaining
valuable publicity) are already being hailed by self-serving
commentators as 'important'. The point is, worthwhile art may turn out
to be controversial, but art that is designed solely with the purpose
of producing controversy can never be worthwhile. Winterson's own
analogy makes this point consummately. "The informal Constable
appreciation society," she writes, "forget that their hero had
tomatoes thrown at his pictures, and that they were considered crude
dabs by those who complained that Constable did not understand
chiaroscuro, and simply laid one primary colour next to another
without grading." Unlike the britain controversocrats, Constable
didn't produce his art in order to elicit (yawn!) shock, even if
shock, outrage and misunderstandings were byproducts of his painting.
Constable had what the alleged conceptualise of britain lack: a unique
vision of the world, a set of perceptions that re-engineer the way in
which we see. This meant that he could lead taste, preempt it;
something that the Britartists could never hope to do. It's precisely
the 'tomatothrowing' dismissal that has never happened to the cosseted
Britartists, who, may well be derided by elements of the public, but
who were immediately cuddled by a sycophantic art establishment. All
that said, I can't quite go along with Nick Southall or Sean, in part
because the fire didn't only consume polo tat like min and Hirst.
There was also serious work by the likes of Paula Rego in there, and
the Chapmans categorization as 'Britartists' never seemed to fit. Too
much vision, too much affect. Really excellent piece here on the Nick
Berg murder and its exploitation by the American Right. It requires a
Kurtzlike unflinching incisiveness to point up the hypocrisy of the
'this proves what savages the muslims are' lobby . Someone brutally
executing one person is worse than bombing thousands? How is that
exactly? Watching the Champions League Final, it stuck me once again
that Jose Mourinho is the most cloughie manager since the great man
himself. It's not only his renowned abrasion and strong will; it's his
tactical methods. The discipline and tenacity of Porto's defence
tonight, and their capacity for quick, incisive breaks, recalled
Clough's Forest teams at their best. (Of course, the sultry Mourinho
is a good deal more dapper and handsome than the raddled Clough ever
was.) All of which is why I predict that, if Mourinho takes on the
Chelsea job, it will be a disaster akin to Clough's legendary ill-
starred and brief tenure at Leeds. Like Clough, Mourinho is a master
of nurturing young talent and he has made an art out of
preconditioning the careers of veterans who, so far as anyone else was
concerned, were washed up. Also like Clough, he has limited experience
of dealing with pampered playboys accustomed to success. Motivating
raw young recruits and those enjoying an improbable Indian Summer in
their career is one thing; moulding a disparate group of petulant
superstars into a team is another entirely. Clough was successful at
Forest because he was able to dominate the club at every level (much
in the way that Ferguson used to be able to preside over United recent
events indicate that this dynasty may be crumbling). As became clear
in his press conference yesterday, Mourinho will find himself at odds
with everything Roman Abramovich stands for: the (discredited) Real
philosophy of headhunting the bestregarded and most expensive players
from around the world and then worrying about teambuilding. Mourinho
will simply not be able to rebuild Chelsea in his own image. Much
better, if he wants to do that, to go to Liverpool, where he will
retain control of transfers, where the biggest players have a
homeliness lacking in Chelsea's galatians and where the fans are
hungry for success of any kind. FRIDAY with JUNE at 'The End'16a West
Central Street, London, WC1 T. 0207 419 9199(Tottenham Court Road
Tube)11pm am GRIME ROOM:KODE 9 DIGITAL MYSTIKSLOEFAHDARQWAN BRAINDANCE
ROOM:DJ reflex RECORDS alesi kerala (aka Astrobotnia)D'ARCANGELODMX
KREWCYLOB Three separate pieces on Morrissey, including aneditorial.
That makes him OFFICIALLY an enduring part of the English cultural
landscape, doesn't it? Robyn Harris in The Times today with a timely
attack on the BBC: 'The licence fee is an unfair, legally enforceable,
regressive tax, and it is deeply unpopular... Forget Eton, the Guards
and Home Counties golf clubs. Broadcasting is one of the last redoubts
of unchallenged elitism in British society.' You have to take a step
back from the licence fee to see how absurd it is. (I'm sure non-uk
readers already think it's incomprehensibly ridiculous.) Imagine if
Sony were able to charge a levy every time you bought a CD player. In
the days of Potter and the like, the BBC could claim to offer a unique
product. Not any more. If the BBC has a USP now, it's drearily
'lavish' costume dramas that I find deeply unappetizing and which I
certainly wouldn't pay for given the choice (Trollope! Trollope! Good
God). Its contemporary drama, as I have complained here many times, is
abject, and you cannon believe that the BBC could ever have
commissioned something like The Singing Detective. Mark Thompson, the
new DG, comes, as everyone knows, from Channel 4. Hmmm, that bodes
well doesn't it? C4 is even worse than the BBC; an absolute scandal
that totally fails in its public service remit (is anyone even
pretending to enforce that any more?), with its endless menu of
tedious lifestyle programmes, exploitative reality TV shows and
American imports (much the best thing on the channel, obviously), and
its boring, pathetic obsession with 'youth'. It's only genuflections
towards tradition, a phlegmatic don't rock the boat attitude and a
strange, preThatcherite acceptance of things as they are that leads to
people continuing to accept a tax every bit as iniquitous as the Poll
Tax. Jesus Christ! Did anyone uk-based obe see the Green Party
Election broadcast tonight or was it some delirium I unwittingly
slipped into? The broadcast was like some Alan Partridge offcut
discarded because it was too embarrassing. Picture the scene. A third
on the bill group of Soul II Soul imitators from 1991 strike up what
they fondly imagine is 'a soulful groove.' They begin to sing a chant
that it's too traumatic for me to remember, but you can imagine the
basic idea, you know fatuous platitudes about 'going green' and
'making a difference.' Then, then..... Cut to the leader of the Green
party. He's bellowing over the music, declaiming Green policies. O my
God It can't be, it can't be.... Yes what he thinks he's doing is....
rapping.... If this weren't painful enough, later in the broadcast, he
starts dancing (Nervous system disintegrates in meltdown of vicarious
embarrassment). Category: TV trivia 'Why,' I asked her, 'if you like
Sex and the City so much don't you like Cutting It?' I suppose I could
reverse the question: why do I love Cutting It but detest in that 'I
detest it but watch it' way SATC? Superficially, the series have a lot
in common. Both are femaleorientated, with strong female casts and a
predominantly female audience. Both centrally concern relationships,
romance and sex. And the central drama in both is strikingly similar:
the Big/ Barishnikov/ Carrie love triangle is doubled in Cutting It by
the Allie/ Finn/ Gavin relationship. And yet, in the end, the
differences obviously outweigh the points of connection. Part of this
is down to SATC's consumer porn. To the trained eye of the fashionista
(i.e. not mine), sat is so much more sumptuous than the relatively
dowdy Cutting It. (This is perhaps reversed by the relative appeal to
men of the leading characters in each; as Penman so sagely observed
way back when, all of the Sex harridans are repulsive. In the war of
the Sarahs, give me Parish over Parker any day of the week!) Also, and
related to this, Cutting It keeps it local whereas sat flaunts its
cosmopolitanism (and its Cosmopolitanism). Cutting It is resolutely
local, provincial, whereas sat was all New York deracinated and
internationalist. And this leads onto the third and most important
difference: rootedness. In Cutting It, the theme is the past; its
inescapability, the way it will come back to take its revenge upon
you, the way you are condemned to repeat it. This was one of the
points to emerge from the reverse Great Expectations plot of Gavin's
'outing' this week as the child of a bourgeois family. 'Bullshit',
Ruby said, is a 'time bomb'. It will go off in the end, just as roots
can only be dyed for so long. By contrast, sat was all about new
starts, about the lack of a past. What do we know of Carrie, Samantha
et al's early presumably prey lives? What we do know of their parents?
In SATC, family history is excised as neatly as split ends, cut off
and swept away, whereas in Cutting It, family history, with all its
shadows, secrets, compromises, comforts and commitments, is the net
(at once supportive and constricting) that all the characters must
negotiate. (Even if the family is not genetic; one of the other themes
of this week's episode). In SATC, the problem was: do I start a family
or not? In Cutting It, the problem is belonging to a family. It's
impossible not to see this as an English versus an American thing.
America, with a future but no past; England, with a past and no
future. America, brimming over with possibility, where the sheer
blankness of the future, the superfluity of territory, the excess of
options are the issue ('how can I possibly choose?'). The terror in
sat was hence of closing down possibilities, of acquiring a past. In
Cutting It, the fear (cf Darcy's terror that her life might have been
fixed and set before her birth) is of never being able to leave the
past ('there is no choice'). Followed the link from Tom at Brown Wedge
to this bizarre site on C. S. Lewis as the spawn of Satan. "Clive
Staples Lewis has been perhaps the single most useful tool of Satan
since his appearance in the Christian community sometime around World
War II." The page of Letters from Readers ('The Evil Fruits of C. S.
Lewis') is especially, creeping compelling. Check the way they refute
the reasonable assertions of correspondents saying, like, perhaps they
could be more careful in their scholarship... A window onto a truly
terrifying world. (Check the home page...) Baudrillard: "there is no
longer a double, one is already in the other world, which is no longer
an other, without a mirror, without a projection, or a utopia that can
reflect it simulation is insuperable, unsurpassable, dull and flat,
without interiority we will no longer even pass through to the other
side of the mirror, that was still the golden age of transcendence.
Angus on The Truman Show. Angus suggests that the film would have been
much better if it was all from Truman's pop and all the 'media studies
bollocks' were cut out. He quite rightly points out that there has
never been a reality TV show in which the participant didn't know that
they were in a television programme (although, of course, there have
been shows in which the people involved didn't know what type of
reality show they were on Joe Millionaire for instance). The film was
obviously an extrapolation of current trends, though as Angus says,
the Truman experiment surely goes so far beyond any acceptable limits
that any satirical intent is stymied. (I have wondered for some time,
however, how long it would be before there were 24 hour soaps...) As
with The Matrix the problem with The Truman Show is that it assumes
too straightforward an opposition between 'the real' and 'the
illusory'. It's what people who haven't read Baudrillard think
Baudrillard is all about. But what Baudrillard tirelessly insisted
upon was the way in which the hyperreal had invaded and superseded the
real. The very ambivalence of the 'reality' in 'reality TV'
demonstrates this. No one really imagines that this 'reality' is some
unmediated primal authenticity unaffected by televisualization. In
some ways, Truman is the only person who lives in 'reality', the 'true
man'; the rest of us are condemned to endure hyperreality. But I
always read The Truman Show as in part a religious allegory. The Ed
Harris character was clearly God, presiding over a preordained,
perfectly secure universe whose smallest details he has lovingly
designed. What Truman must choose between this theistic cosmos
(determinism) and a Sartrean existentialist universe (free will). The
door on the horizon, the door opening onto blackness, the blackness of
pure potentiality, the void of existentialist subjectivity, is the
threshold between these two realms. Nietzsche: "But how did we do
this? How could we drink up the sea? Who gave us the sponge to wipe
away the entire horizon? What were we doing when we unchained this
earth from its sun? Whither is it moving now? Whither are we moving?
Away from all suns? Are we not plunging continually? Backward,
sideward, forward, in all directions?" punk IS ONE YEAR OLD! And
here's the first post to prove it... Well, a year and a bit, actually,
since I'm such a dope that I missed the actual anniversary... Contrary
to the plague of miserabilism that seems to have descended on bloom
(as identified by Robin), I know EXACTLY why I blog... For much of the
last year, especially when things got REALLY BAD, it's been my only
connection to the world, my only outside line.... It's reinvigorated
my enthusiasm for so many things, and pricked my enthusiasm for things
I'd never previously considered.... (I say this especially to the
currently disenchanted Marcello, who has done both; I remember being
drawn out of a catatonic depression last year by reading through the
entire Church of Me archives.) It's made me many valued friends, both
online and (thanks to Luke's brilliant walks) off too... Plus it's put
me back in touch with friends I'd lost contact with. (Yeh, there's the
occasional wanker, but I can honestly say, very few, almost none
really, certainly there's far fewer of them than the excellent, high
quality correspondents.) In short, and no exaggeration, it's made life
worth living... I know it's an awful cliche, but it's really true, a
blow is what you make it... So heartfelt thanks to all of those who
have contributed, by linking, commenting, reading or inspiring...
greta responds with a well-reasoned piece on Morrissey. I haven't
heard You are the Quarry but I'd trust Geeta's opinion of it over the
'return to form' consensus that seems to be coalescing in most other
quarters. I write as someone who admired and appreciated The Smiths,
not as an in any sense an obsessive. (The Smiths don't exactly fit
squarely into the punk aesthetic, for reasons that are readily
apparent. This from way back more or less summarises my views on the
Moz.) But yes, my current appreciation of Morrissey is based on his
music not at all and entirely on his persona. I would question,
though, whether Morrissey's album is any worse than that by such feted
luminaries as Franz Ferdinand (whose dull sludge was hailed,
incredibly, as 'revolutionary' on the front of that Word magazine, I
noticed), or Keane, or The Coral. Morrissey isn't the problem; the
fact that the paucity of contemporary indie makes us still need him,
that's the problem. I disagree with greta and, as ever, find myself
echoing Robin. By his presence alone, Morrissey on Jonathan Ross
showed up Now Pop's inability to produce (selfmade) mythical
characters. Or is that absence? As Simon pointed out back in the day,
Morrissey developed a kind of 'ostentatious absenteeism', a perverse
'look at me, I don't want to be here' form of attentionseeking/
repulsion. On JR he still, absolutely, refused to play the game,
refused to step out of role, to relax into Ross's polo spree of
metacommentary and lampoonery. Unlike Robin, I do like Ross (he can be
forgiven most anything for his wit and his enthusiasm) but he was
clearly out of his depth with Morrissey whose gravity and implacable
seriousness were unassailable. Both men seemed uncomforable, though
Morrissey, painting himself as the misanthropy of legend, on the edge
of his nerves (where you suspect he lives most of his life), coiled,
reflective, cultivating hatreds and amours fou alike, was at least
more used to this painful level of social embarrasment. (Ross's joke
about Morrissey becoming his friend quickly shaded into Alan Partridge
territory: 'When are you coming round? ... I've got two lambs...') His
solo career amounts to very little, of course, although the new single
is compelling enough, and 'The More You Ignore Me, the Closer I Get'
is an underrated masterpiece, every bit the equal of his best work
with The Smiths, an unflinching vignette of obsessive fixation ('I
bear more grudges/ than lonely high court judges'). And his playing of
'Every Day is Like Sunday' reminded you that it is one of THE high
watermark moments in Britannia moribund ('Trudging slowly over wet
sand.... Win yourself a cheap tray'). Its perversity, its Betjeman
'Slough'esque rage and disgust ('Come armageddon come....') tempered
by a grim fascination, a Dublinerslike inertial pull; the oso English
attachment towards that which is ostensibly loathed. (The Joyce
comparison actually an interesting one, since both would remain
permanently attached to a homeland they'd eventually live outside of.)
Robin talks of Lynch and that's strangely right: Morrissey in L.A.
must be like one of Lynch's ghostly chanteurs, existing in some
lynchpin untime, neither of the present nor of the past, never really
rock and roll.... I suppose the closest parallel would be Ben, the
Dean Stockwell character from Blue Velvet; performer for all those
rough trade gangstertypes (or perhaps that is Morrissey's dream of
what he could be).... As I watched, I realised that I couldn't
remember the last time I'd seen Moz interviewed on television. (Well,
it's been, so they said, eighteen years...) Is it me or does he look
more handsome than before, his eyes an even brighter, an even
steelier, blue than ever? That East End gangster look suits him rather
well, I think.The strange power of media and pop to simulate
intimacy....Morrissey says he doesn't like people, but we all feel,
secretly, that he'd like us, don't we? Obviously Piers Morgan had to
go, but reflect on this: as Alex Salmond sagely pointed out on
Question Time on Thursday, the only people to be sacked (or forced to
resign) over Iraq have been in the media (Morgan, Gilligan, the DG and
Chairman of the BBC). And the QLR's high-handed tone shouldn't make us
forget that some of their personnel are being investigated for
murdering, not 'merely' torturing, a prisoner. Lies/ More Lies Beckett
and TaylorSnakeskin Teeth/ Abusing the Body spade This logging lark's
OK when you get free stuff as good as this. An upcoming release on the
Hand on the low label. The opener, 'Lies' by Beckett and Taylor (I
echo Philip's entreaty that these guys please get a less
delibidinizing monniker; Beckett and Taylor sound like a firm of
provincial solicitors), is a kind of digital blues: an replaceable and
displacing suturing of house, funk, plantation chant and glitch that
gratifyingly refuses to airbrush out the stitchmarks. 'More Lies'
attenuates the vocal to vowelstabs (o's and i's) and distributes it
over a more driving house beat. But the handouts here are the two
tracks by spade (which is, if possible, an even worse name than
Beckett and Taylor). The desiredrunkfunk of 'Snakeskin Teeth' boasts a
gloriously, deliriously stoned vocal that recalls Arthur Russell at
his woolies or an even more slurred John Martyn. It's like the Junior
Boys if their reference points were house and blues rather than step
and OMD. As the track develops, it's as if the vocals simultaneously
become increasingly intoxicated and increasingly artificialized (as
the lines scarcely coherent at the start become wreathed in delay and
thick digital fog, and the voice devolves into tics and stammers)
until, by the end, it sounds like it's being sung by a drunken cyborg.
Not surprsingly, one of the tracks of the year for me so far, no
contest. If 'Snakeskin Teeth' has the majestic torpor of a supine body
reclining into satiation, 'Abusing the Body' (whose title has an
unfortunate topical piquancy en ce moment) is all datapaniked
confusion and stuttering anxiety, a chatterspasm of digitallyagitated
vocal and hesitant beats. The track's hook is a sample that, when,
initially, it's submerged in the mix and abbreviated to the briefest
of stabs, registers only as a shiver of dea vudu, the merest
subliminal sliver. As the track progresses, the suspicion that there's
something familiar here hardens into recognition when the line 'You've
got the body....' from Hall and Oates' epochal 'Say No Go' emerges
from the digital mist. Simon cites Jon on the inability to consume
EVERYTHING. Put me in mind of this and also Siobhan's riff on
flitting. "War strips us of the later accretions of civilization and
lays bare the primal man in each of us. It compels us once more to be
heroes who cannon believe in their own death; it stamps strangers as
enemies, whose death is to be brought about or desired; it tells us to
disregard the death of those we love." Freud I'm not going to make a
habit of this, I promise but here's a political post Perhaps the most
amazing aspect of the latest events in Iraq is that they reveal the
extent to which American incursion has actually undermined US
interests. Now this is surprising, since Leftist criticism of the Iraq
war has assumed that the war was prosecuted to pursue American self-
interest rather than out of some high minded ethical principle. The
neo-conservative defence of the war has not disagreed; it has simply
maintained that American interests are coincident with the best
interests of humanity. Using a version of 'invisible hand' logic,
neurons have argued that, in protecting their own interests, the
Americans will produce a better world for everyone. Apologists for
newton nutters like walkowitz like to present them as postideological
pragmatists, single-minded in their protection of American interests.
But who really imagines that America and Americans are safer now than
in the time before the war? Far from coolly driving through a program
that will secure US interests, the American strategy in Iraq seems to
have been guided by a strange death drive: an almost systematic will
to make things worse for themselves. The Americans have now succeeded
in transforming a secular state into a seething hotbed of Islamist
extremism. On the Arab 'street', the abuse scandal has confirmed the
lowest and most hyperbolically negative view of the decadence and
barbarism of Western society. None of the lessons that the British
learned in Kenya or Northern Ireland that interning actually feeds
local militancy have been heeded. And a correspondent in today's
Independent speculates that the inevitable and ignominious departure
of America from Iraq could presage not only a civil war in that
country which will destabilise the entire region, but which could
effectively end the States' influence on the Middle East. Only a death
drive could account for the American actions in setting up an
interrogation centre in Saddam's former headquarters of torture: an
act of such stupefyingly guilelessness and stupidity that it beggars
belief. As someone observed: would the Americans in postwar Germany
have set up a Nazi interrogation unit in Auschwitz? The symbolic power
of the Americans installing themselves in the of Saddam's regime need
hardly be underlined. Oh, and I've just clocked onto this baffling
media euphemism, 'contractor'. I'd previously naively imagined that
'contractor' meant a builder or something, when of course it means
'mercenary'. "'In terms of television and the news magazines the war
in Vietnam has a latent significance very different from its manifest
content. Far from repelling us, it appeals to us by virtue of its
complex of polyperverse acts." Ballard. Goldfrapp Strict Machine. Does
everything B*****e wants to do, but fails to, on 'Naughty Girl'. An
update rather than a wearily sexless recapitulation of Donna Summer's
aching, effortless cyberoticism. I agree with what epps says here
about Eamon great single, f'sure but as per my Abba post, I disagree
that pop is essentially adolescent. Off the top of my head, I can
think of four counter-examples that disprove this claim: Abba, of
course, Roxy, Kate Bush and Fleetwood Mac. Pretty powerful
counterexamples. If we had the chance to do it all againTell me, would
we?Could we? Speaking of Ccru.... Undercurrent brings news of a
stupefyingly example of 'plagiarism'. It actually goes far beyond
plagiarism, since the culprit's typical MO involves reproducing the
original texts with the odd word replaced, sometimes with comic
effect. e.g. 'Coarse materialism' becomes 'course materialism.' I
don't think I've ever encountered quite so sustained an example of
textual theft. What I love is that he has the gall to put 'copyright
Adrian Gargett' on some of these witless collages. Quite what the
motive is for garrett replacing words in the original texts is
especially mysterious; it's not as if this will disguise the text to
the reader who's familiar with it; but it effectively robs him of any
argument that he is merely propagating the texts (in a way that bears
out their machine impersonality). Some argue that garrett is engaging
in a Sokalesque spoof on the academy in which he exposes for ridicule
the ludicrous lanes of peer review. Perhaps.... The whole thing is
both utterly hilarious and terribly sad... This new collection of
Burroughs essays is out on Pluto Press; it includes a contribution
from Ccru. Here's the press release: RETAKING THE UNIVERSE: William S.
Burroughs in the Age of GlobalizationEdited by Davis Schneiderman and
Philip WalshPublished by Pluto pressman 2004 / 328pp / Pb 17.99 /
$24.95 / 0745320813 An artist with his antennae up, Burroughs
responded to the same cultural landscape that spurred and shaped so
much of contemporary theory: the manipulation of images by mass media,
space travel, Cold War politics, genetic engineering, sophisticated
surveillance systems, chemical/biological warfare, nuclear arms
proliferation, genocide, environmental disaster, global inequalities
in the aftermath of colonialism, a surge of religious fundamentalism,
electronic communications, more open expressions of various forms of
sexual desire, and so on. [extracted from chapter 1] With a proud
history of publishing the very best in progressive, critical thinking
across politics, the social sciences and literary theory, Pluto Press
is proud to present this title on our list. 'Schneiderman's and
Walsh's new collection should mark the beginning of a new and wider
view of the contemporary implications of Burroughs's thought. This
book is retaking the universe of Burroughsian interpretation  starting
now.' James Grauerholz This anthology of writings on the work of
William S Burroughs offers genuinely new and contemporary scholarship
on a hugely influential and still widely read and studied cultural
phenomenon. The move beyond the merely literary, to argue for the
social and political dimensions and relevance of Burroughs work, is
what makes this particular collection a distinctive one. If you would
like to feature an extract, request a review copy, or feature this
title to your members at a substantial discount, please email
webmarketing@plutobooks.com. Jess with a real great post on the reflex
Grime LP. Glad he liked it too. Must say that I've played the else
pretty compulsively since I received it a week or so ago, and it just
gets better with every listen. Stick with Slaughter Mob, though, Jess.
I, too, was most taken with the marine and the plastica tunes
initially (especially the awesome marine opener, 'Stargate 92'). But
the Slaughter Mob tracks are real growers. To whet Nick Gutterbreakz'
appetite even further, their 'Fireweaver' is almost like a 00's
Cabaret Voltaire, with its paranoiaasaform of resistance worldview
('Fear is the most powerful weapon we have' 'Trust noone', 'Question
Authority') and simmering electro insinuations. Ditto the bleak acid
of 'Black Hole': all Voice of american-style pitcheddown vocal samples
and viscous synths. By contrast..... I have to assume from the
nearradio silence on the Wiley LP hereabouts (ironic that there's so
little on the blows about it, given the Petridis review) that everyone
is as underwhelmed by it as I am. It's not that it's bad. It's more
that it only just meets expectations and in doing so falls short of
them. I haven't yet experienced anything like the compulsion to play
it that the reflex LP excites. Wiley palls by comparison not only with
the most obvious parallel, his protege, Dizzee, but also by comparison
with himself. If as Simon sagely insisted dizzy 'superls' as both a
producer AND an MC, the discrepancy between Wiley's abilities on the
mic and on the PC are all-too evident on reddin on Thin Ice. Again,
it's not that Wiley is a bad MC. Far from it. But he's not good enough
to stop you lingering for the desolate splendour of the eskidubs. As
an MC, Wiley lacks Dizzee's rhythmic invention, verbal exuberance,
affective register and to put it at its simplest his 'vocal grain',
that ineffable but completely material vocal signature. As Nick
Gutterbreakz, one of the few to break cover on this subject, has
plaintively said, the painfully attenuated 'interlude' versions of
'Ice Rink' and 'Eskimo' cry out to be heard in their entirety. (Nick's
right that 'Special Girl' is like some E. London cousin of a kane West
track; but where kane has a mellifluous spirituality [the speeded-up
vox playing like cyborg angels], the helium samples on the Wiley track
sound like crystal met demons haunting some pissstenching Bow
underpass.) There's a strange paradox about the LP, in that Wiley's
repeated insistence that 'his heart is cold' actually add a human
warmth to the tracks that they gloriously lack in their vocalfree
versions. Any vocal would be an unwelcome interloper in the eerie calm
and smoking rubble of 'Ground Zero''s depopulated carnage. I know I
won't be alone in seconding Nick's call for an LP of ski
instrumentals. Just heard on ABC news: 'He said he was forced to
appear as part of a human pyramid....' Popjustice refers to records as
TEXTS! (See Tuesday singles sweep). Well, someone had to do it.
Eventually. David Lynch versus Dennis Potter.... We act while awake as
we do in a dream: we invent and fabricate the person with whom we
associateand then we immediately forget the fact.  Nietzsche. The
affinities between the work of David Lynch and Dennis Potter have
often been remarked upon. No doubt they would have been confirmed if
Lynch and Potters long-planned collaboration on an adaptation of D. M.
Thomass The White Hotel had come to fruition. Superficially, the works
of Potter and Lynch which have most in common with each other are Twin
Peaks and The Singing Detective; both are explorations of the
detective genre by televisual auteurs; both display their authors
signature obsessions with popular culture; both examine the interplay
between sexuality, memory and identity  but the most Potteresque of
Lynchs films is actually his masterpiece and most recent feature,
Mulholland Dr. In crossfertilizing the soap, detective and Horror
genres (amongst others), Twin Peaks contaminated realism with strains
of the marvellous. Yet its concerns were epistemological (Is this real
or not?) rather than ontological (What is reality? What is the reality
of this?) Mulholland Dr, meanwhile, like The Singing Detective, is
reflexively engaged with its own fictionality. The standard
interpretation of Mulholland Dr claims that its first two-thirds are
the fantasy/ dream of failed two-bit actress Diane Selwyn, whose
actual life is allegedly depicted, in all its quotidian squalor, in
the final section of the film. This would underscore MDs striking
similarities to The Singing Detective, whose complexlyinteracting
narrative lines are weaved from the fantasies and memories of the
convalescent pulp author, Philip E Marlow (Michael Gambon). Yet such a
reading is ultimately unsatisfactory. As Timothy sakamoto argues, (you
have to scroll down to his piece, Double Dreams in Hollywood) to see
the second part of Mulholland Dr as real is inherently conservative in
its assumption that there is an unambiguous reality to which we can
return. Following Zizek, sakamoto suggests that what MD presents is
not an exposed reality but a grey fog of competing, incommensurable
realities, from which desire and will are never extricable. (An
homologous case is Kubricks nearcontemporaneous Eyes Wide Shut, which
is standardly interpreted as entirely the dream of the protagonist,
Tom Cruises Bill. What this reading of Eyes Wide Shut has in common
with the dominant readings of Mulholland Dr is a confidence in the
possibility of parsing reality from desire, a distinction which both
films disturb, as the very title of Kubricks film indicates). Lyotard
famously defines postmodernity as an incredulity towards
metanarratives If the standard interpretation of MD were valid, then,
far from being incredulous towards metanarratives, it would be
presenting a metanarrative (an empirical realism localized through a
psychological interiority). In his earlier Libidinal Economy, Lyotard
opposes the representational cube to the median strip: a single-sided
figure, with no inside or outside. In tracing the endless surface of
this median strip, both Lynch and Potter exemplify a libidinal
postmodernism diametrically opposed to selfconscious, autoreferencing
PoMo. Whereas polo mourns the absence of a stable transcendent plane,
a metaspace above the fiction, typically identified with a
selfpresent, self-conscious subject (God/ the author ), Lynch and
Potters fiction explores the Escheresque flatness of a plane of
immanence. Far from being metafictions, then, Potters and Lynch deny
the possibility of any meta level. The Real of Mulholland Dr is not
Dianes supposedly waking world, but the paradoxically entrancing
insomniac realm of Club silence (which, in acting as the gateway from
the first section of the film to the second is like the cut of the
median band that when sutured together, transforms the two sides of
the piece of paper into a single strip). I say paradoxically
entrancing because the scene is ostensibly demystifying. Yet only
ostensibly so; like Magrittes This Is Not a Pipe, Club Silencio,
reminiscent of the Black/White Lodge in the first and final episodes
of Twin Peaks and as intensely charged as anything in Lynchs oeuvre,
demonstrates film  and arts irreducible sorcery. Club Silencios
scenario is thoroughly Potteresque. The entertainment is provided by
performers who mime onstage to a prerecorded soundtrack, much in the
way that Potter had the characters in The Singing Detective and
Pennies From Heaven lip sync to thirties pop. Despite the complete
ingenuousness of the magiciancomperes words  There is no band. What
you will hear are recordings. we (the audience) are nevertheless
unable to resist the seduction of the spectacle. So when the apparent
singer, rebekah Del Rio, collapses but the music continues, we are
shocked. Something in us compels us to treat the performance as if
real. It would be difficult to conceive of a more compelling parable
for postmodernism. Just as Postmodernism simultaneously exposes and
disturbs generic conventions whilst also participating in their lure,
so the silence audience is made aware of the artificiality of what
they are experiencing at the very moment that they succumb to it. (See
here for an analysis of this in relation to Twin Peaks and The Singing
Detective There is of course nothing less mendacious, less
dissimmulatory, in cinemas history of illusion than the scene in Club
Silencio. What we are seeing and hearing  the film itself is a
recording and nothing but. On the most banal level, this is the Real
which the magic of cinema must conceal. Yet the scene haunts for
reasons other than this. It challenges the audience (us!) to recognize
that our own lives, the roles we perform when we leave the auditorium,
are themselves recordings, scripted by forces outside the self whose
substance turns out to be itself nothing more than a palimpsest of
influences. Lip singing is a model for a subjectivity that is
essentially empty; that is driven, not driving; that is a rendition,
not an origination; whose inside, like that of the moebius band, is
all outside. Watching Club silence Im reminded of Philip K Dicks
gnomic but suggestive remark that life is not lived, but lived
through. (Its worth noting parenthetically here that both Potter and
Lynch are most at home with petrock pop. Potter famously fills his
soundtracks with the wistful tearoom pop of his childhood, while Lynch
favours Badalmentis oneiric jazz or Julee Cruises ethereal doowop.
Even when the music is chronologically of the rock era, it is
temperamentally petrock  Lynchs favourite, Roy Orbison, for instance,
although supposedly a rocker, was always a crooner at heart. Not
coincidentally, Lynch and Potter are at their least convincing when
trying to deal with rock  Potters dawnofrock opera Lipstick On Your
Collar and Lynchs rebel rocker fantasy Wild At Heart are amongst their
weakest work.) Mulholland Dr shares much with the television serial
Potter wrote after The Singing Detective, the troubled Blackeyes.
Blackeyes, whose protagonist, Gina Bellman, physically resembles MDs
Laura Elena Harring, was intended to be Potters examination of the
production and manipulation of female subjectivity (and his own
desiringcomplicity with this manipulation). The Lynch female  like the
Potter female (and the Ferry female, come to think of it)  is a
largely fantastic concoction of bloodied lipstick, nail polish, high
heels and long hair. Tellingly, the iconic image of both Lynchs Twin
Peaks and of Potters The Singing Detective is a dead woman (Laura
Palmer wrapped in plastic; Sonia/ Philips mother dredged up from the
Thames under Hammersmith bridge), just as Mulholland Dr revolves
around a female corpse. But in situating women as both dreamers and
the dreamed, MD's examination of the desiringtrajectories of
Hollywoods factory of dreams, succeeded in a way that Blackeyes never
did. A wonderful contribution to the Britannia moribund canon by
oldham and punk fave Michael Moorcock in last week's Guardian: 'Cheap
renderings and patched stucco are moulded by a natural graffiti
spelling out the dreams of failed novelists who come to escape, to set
down their stories, before it dawns on their horrified minds that the
bungalows and boarding houses are as hungry as the sea. Stay too long
and you inevitably drown in a quicksand of disappointment, seedy
nostalgia and selfdeception. Here, on the shingle of Kent and Sussex,
EastEnders habitually come to die, just as south and west Londoners
choose Worthing or Bournemouth as their final resting places, no
longer able to attain the dormitory heavens of Brighton and Hove.
Sidling around the Estuary, Sinclair, via Norton, has learned the
secret of the English seaside: it was designed only to be visited.
This is where desperate immigrants, former showbiz stars and ancient
juvenile delinquents seek asylum. To live here for more than a few
weeks is to be caught in a 1950s timetrap where all the prejudices,
loyalties, hatreds, myths and desires of immediate post-second world
war England constantly recycle themselves.' (Thanks to Sphaleotas for
drawing my attention to this nugget.)I'm definitely with drunk on the
411 single (supposedly featuring Ghostface, but there's no trace of
him on the version they play on MTV Hits and the Box). The string
arrangement is swoonsomely lovely, the walkover verses are reminiscent
of All Saints' 'Never Ever'/ ShangriLa's 'Past, Present and Future'
but the killer is the pitched up, sampled hook: 'I can't fall down on
my knees/ and apologise to you/ cos that's not my style'. The way the
girls lipsync to it in the video, moving with a mannequin stiffness,
is positively uncanny. Crunk's right, it's a kinda UKKanye thing. O
God. Faithless are back. Listening to whatsisname's pathologically
lugubrious preachrap is like going to church. 'Insomnia' fucking
'Soporifia' more like. The Abba 'tribute' on Five tonight was so bad
it could almost have been C4. Couldn't they have done better than some
mark who insisted upon referring to Agnetha as 'the blond one'. To
every standard cliche wheeled out they had crap clothes! The men were
ugly! Elvis Costello trotting out his awesome anecdote about 'Oliver's
Army' stealing the Rachmaninovlike piano from 'Dancing Queen' they
added their own perplexing idea that the words were incomprehensible.
Abba lyrics have always struck me as models of clarity; lines like
'the judges will decide/ the likes of me abide' and 'the gods will
throw the dice/ their minds as cold as ice' were Shakespearian in the
epic grandeur of their fatalistic melancholy. At least the guy from
Attitude had the courage to talk ingenuously and without irony about
this aspect of the music; about its poignancy and pain. Andy Bell was
slightly embarrassed about saying of course rightly that Abba songs
were the equal of the Beatles'. Thing is, Abba wrote real love songs.
In most Pop, 'love' is a code for infatuation or sex or some
combination of the two. With Abba, we were dealing with emotions that
had simmered and accreted for years. Like Roxy Music, they were both
confidently postadolescent and thoroughly modern. There was no
question of their pretending to be teenagers or pursuing a teenage
market, but unlike today's borocracy Norah Jones, Amy Winehouse, you
know they didn't trade on a conservative, 'classic' notion of what
'adult' pop had to entail. Like Roxy, Abba were a band who could only
have been formed by people in their late twenties/ early thirties.
That's why the Pop Idol singers of a couple of years back struggled so
gloriously when asked to perform Abba songs. Not only because they
were simply too young to have gone through the ringer, but also
because their whole MO is based on a distinctly erotic equalised
emoting. Abba never emoted, and if sex featured in their songs, it
wasn't usually as their subject ('Gimme Gimme Gimme' apart natch), but
as part of their emotional background; sex typically operated as a
sign of betrayal, another weapon with which the estranged lovers could
hurt one another. Where borland histrionics and emotional
grandstanding leave us cold, the coldness of Abba's delivery was
paradoxically intensely emotionally engaging. In many ways, a close
parallel would be Krafwerk. It was the disjunction between the
dispassionate, almost robotic vocals and the profound passion of the
subject matter that made them so affecting. btw, is it now a
contractual requirement that Paul Ross appears on these shows? It must
be some kind of industry invoke surely. Still, if you're looking for
an Abba tribute,Marcello's remains unsurpassable. Nothing else is
necessary, really. Speaking of C4: will it soon be the case that the
whole of that channel's output will be devoted to programmes that
combine Althusserian interpellation 'How clean is your house?' with
Foucauldian biopolitics? The task of disciplining the body has now
passed from dysfunctional institutions to the leisure industry, which
increasingly operates as a neurosisinducing superego. C4's latest
contribution to this phenomenon is the appalling '10 Years Younger',
in which a hapless member of the public is subjected to a public
humiliation last night's victim was required to stand in a Manchester
shopping centre while passers by were invited to guess her age before
being given a makeover worth seven and a half K. C4's renowned
fixation upon the youth demographic has gone alongside an
archconservatism the spreading of work into every area of life. This
woman looked older than her years because she wasn't working hard
enough wasn't sufficiently subjecting her body to the punitive regime
of microhygiene and beautification demanded by the currently dominant
geopolitical configuration. Cf Simon's antediluvian essay 'Against
Health and Efficiency', more relevant now THAN EVER. Well, it's not
Grime in the sense that Luka or maybe even Alex P******s understands
it, but Rephlex's new Grime compilation is really rather excellent.
There's not a great deal of common ground between this sound (as
popularized on the stroll Deep Rinse and at Forward) and the Wiley/
dizzy end of Grime/ Eski. It's partly a question of geography the
'Grime' on display here is a South, rather than an East, London
t'ing'; partly about the role of the MC whereas ski is orientated
(vocals are a virtual presence even on its instrumental tracks), the
MC is nowhere to be heard here. In contrast with dizzy or Wiley's
graffitidense riot of slanguage, Grime is neutron bombdepopulated,
scoured clean of verbal hurry burly, more Canary Wharf than
Billingsgate fish market. OK, hands up. punk has previously sneered at
what it called 'Croydon Techno'. Yet the three artists who contribute
to this album MarkOne, plastica and Slaughter Mob succeed in making
Croydon Techno a highly appetising proposition. The LP's cover plain
grey, emblazoned with the single word 'Grime' threatens to bear out my
previous worries about this sound being 'concretegrey, asphaltdull,
subway anonymous.' In fact, Grime has the silver impersonality and
sleekness of stainless steel. The most obvious precursor is not
techno, but techstep. It's as if the producers have rewound back past
garage to the point at which jungle's last crucial phase shift fatally
calcified. Techstep always flirted with stasis: it had devolved all of
jungle's pulp effervescence into a viscous gloop of bass, attenuated
beats and austere SF menace, which at its best had a delicious poise,
a fascinatingly compulsive tension, but at its worst produced pure
ennui. Grime has returned to the swamp of inertia into which techstep
finally declined, dredging up the couture cyborg and lubricating its
titanic joints. It's a massive improvement on dubstep, which, although
it deployed similar components sparse breakbeats, SFX, oozing acid
bass, sampled vocal refrains achieved the curious feat of sounding
both empty and lacking in space. Whereas dusted tended to loiter
without much palpable intent, Grime has an implacable Terminatorfocus,
a stalker's unwavering sense of purpose. marine sets the tone with the
ominous, insinuating 'Stargate 92', which could almost be Tango and
Ratty on serotoninuptakeinhibitors instead of E. Plasticman's 'Pump up
the Jam' resuscitate the corpse of Technotronic's barelyremembered
hobhouse hit of the same name, hesitating the cheery hook into a
desolate hedonic plateau, like the remains of a garish poster left on
the walls of a postapocalyptic city; his 'Camel Aide', meanwhile,
sheathed a cyborg endoskeleton in a synthetic skin weaved in the th
World, conjuring a mournful mirage reminiscent of Jon Hassell.
Slaughter Mob augment the bleep, break and bass formula with dancehall
chat and honey sound FX (creaking doors, owl hoots). The album is the
soundtrack for a British film that will never be made but ought to be,
a punk version of Blade Runner or Total Recall, a world of visored
menace, adrenal urgency and android passion. 'Music makes the
bourgeoisie and the rebels [come together].' cizek 'I am convinced of
my proper grasp of some Lacanian concept only when I can translate it
successfully into the inherent imbecility of popular culture.' Madonna
Well, this is too amusing to get annoyed about, really, isn't it.
Simon's right: what the piece reveals about Petridis'/ the Guardian's
middlebrook orientation is very telling. I guess what excited us about
Pop writing back in the day was precisely what Petridis finds
laughably unthinkable now: the audacity, but the intrinsic rightness,
of running theory through pop. It's another example of what I was
talking about yesterday re:C4, though much more explicit in its
unashamed assumption of a rigid demarcation between high and low
culture, between middle class and proletariat. This is perhaps all the
more surprising given Petridis' championing of art rock; although
perhaps not. What was great about art rock in its original form was
precisely the promiscuous interlining of elite and popular culture, of
white and black. In parallel with the music press in its pomp, art
schools were the places in which the proletariat from John Lennon
through to Bryan Ferry and John fox got access to the resources of
high culture. The new art rock, however, is resolutely white,
resolutely middleclass: a reassertion of old cultural hierarchies, not
a celebration of their disentangling. It's laughable that Petridis
attacks briton for its 'conservatism' by comparison with the 'radical'
(hah!) Scissor Sisters and Franz Ferdinand. I'd be the last person to
defend Britpop, but simply moving forward what you're reviving by a
decade or so doesn't constitute radicalism in my book. 'Lolita and
Guernica/ Did the Strand.' Stubbs on BBC2 . Couldn't agree more. As
for Channel Four, well, when I stumbled across some of the Games last
week (even I couldn't watch that, honest), I thought: jesus christ,
has Channel Four come to THIS? Selecting The Games as an object of
disgust or talismanic indicator of C4's decline is perhaps a little
arbitrary. After all, most of its homegrown output, whether it be
consequent interior decorating/ holiday/ lifestyle shows,
exploitation/ humiliation TV (Wifeswap, How Clean is Your House?) or
Graham high queen of polo Norton, is depressingly poor. But sometimes
you're just taken aback, y'know. The cynical forces behind BBC2 and C4
would smile indulgently at Potter's idea that television was the real
national theatre. The ultimate result of dumping down is not, as its
champions would no doubt want to claim, the collapse of cultural
hierarchy and privilege. Just the opposite in fact. The increasingly
prevalent belief that television is 'just trash', that demanding some
standards is somehow snobbish, is actually elitism in its crudest
form. 'Real' culture is to be found elsewhere, in the places the
controllers of C4 and BBC2 go in their spare time. It's not for the
likes of us. Perhaps the most troubling/ fascinating opposition in
Words and Music is that Morley poses between Simon Fuller's version of
Pop and the version of Pop he attributes to Kylie. The opposition just
doesn't convince. I enjoyed Morley's characterization of Fuller as
Agent Smith/ Burroughs' Death Dwarf, obsessively metastatizing images
of himself (and/or his own banal fantasies) across the body of the
mediascape. But is Kylie really opposed to 19/ FullerPop? Or did, in
fact, Kylie's passage from soapactress to pop temptress, from theatre
school to popstar, pave the way for Fuller's hegemony? Didn't Kylie
begin to make the performing Arts Popstar acceptable? 1. If you were
writing the first sentence of a piece about Paul Morley's writing in
the spirit of Paul Morley's writing, your first sentence would have to
be about what it would be like to write a first sentence about Paul
Morley in the spirit of his writing. Because that's what Morley's
fascinated by; generating whole universes out of the most minuscule of
differences between something and nothing. Reflexivity. Art generated
out of a description of the process of its own construction. Words as
music. 2. So it is that Morley's Words and Music begins with a
disquisition on, a fantastic encounter with, a memory or perhaps a
false, certainly enhanced memory of listening to Alvin Lucier's I am
sitting in a Room. I am sitting in a Room finds Lucier reading an
account of what he is doing sitting in a room, recording onto tape
onto tape. He then records the recording, records the rerecording,
until multiple new texts are generated. As if from nothing... 3. Words
and Music is a history of Pop Music from P to M, from prehistory to
mp3, from post to modern, from pleasure to memory. 4. It's a map of
Pop in the shape of a man. 5. Morley P, (or MPthreeO as he will be
called in the glittering city of Pop he projects as the tells towards
which Words and Music) moves, is the missing link between Raymond
Roussel and Tom Ewing. 6. Morley's key case studies are often k's.
Kraftwerk are pivotal: the point at which minimalism and
experimentalism (Art!) bleed into Pop. In Morley's lab, Kraftwerk
beget (by entirely artificial means of course) Kylie, Morley's Virgil,
his guidedriver through the virtual Pop paradiso of Words and Music.
7. It's a very 2001 work. Noone would have (de)centred a Pop
(antimeta)narrative around the (bl)android Kylie in 1997, nor in 2004.
It was only in 2001, in the slipstream of 'Can't Get You Out of My
Head' that anyone (apart from maybe Angus) would have dreamt of
elevating Kylie to quite so elevated a role. Kylie converges with
another k, Kubrick, as reality converges with SF. She is the missing
link between Barbarella and 2001: A Space Oddysey. You can imagine,
Morley says, and as you read this, you will imagine it, HAL singing,
as its mind starts to go, 'Can't Get You Out of My Head' instead of
'Daisy, Daisy'. 9. Can Kylie bear the weight of fantasy required to
sustain such a role? She's too much the popcorn that Morley conjures;
a glittering screen for all his fantasies, a blank canvas on which
anything can be projected. There's very little remainder or surplus.
She's the driven, not the driver. 10. punk beams with pleasure to note
that John fox gets at least three mentions. (Both steamatic and one of
its tracks, 'He's a Liquid', feature in one of Morley's many bestow
lists.) 11. Words and Music is much less than Nothing. Nothing was
notion an autobiography, notion a novel, notion a Pop book... Words
and Music doesn't succeed in reinventing the possibilities of what a
book can be in the way that Nothing did. Partly because it's more the
sort of book you would expect Morley to write; there is none of the
painful revelation, the insight into the relationship between
embarrassment and pop dreams. Some of the prose seems, dare I say it,
listless, almost bored. So much of it seems like Morley on autopilot,
turning out his (albeit elegant) riffs in a somewhat offhand way.
Taylor Parkes' review of the reissued Grotesque. Zizek: 'In some
"radical" circles in the US, there came recently a proposal to
"rethink" the rights of necrophilia (those who desire to have sex with
dead bodies)  why should they be deprived of it? So the idea was
formulated that, in the same way people sign permission for their
organs to be used for medical purposes in the case of their sudden
death, one should also allow them to sign the permission for their
bodies to be given to necrophilia to play with them.' The thing about
cizek is that you have to love his writing, even if you disagree with
it, even if, in fact, you find very little to agree with in it. He
might just be the model academic in that he elucidates the otherwise
impenetrable idiolect of abstruse theory by using the vernacular of
Pop cult allusion, and he makes it seems as if the two were made for
one another. The one thought that never occurs when you read cizek is:
what's the point of Theory? cizek shows that everything from the
smallest occult trifle to the gravest Geopolitical catastrophe is
saturated with Theory, can only be opened up by Theory. Any way, you
can read lots of cizek at lacan dot com. I'd particularly recommend
his two essays on Iraq (you can get to these straight off the front
page) and some of his contributions to the online journal, Symptom,
especially Passion in the Era of Decaffeinated Belief and Welcome to
the Desert of the Real. The best introduction to cizek is Zizek's own
writing. But if you want something by someone else, try this. Most
played videos on MTV Hits and The Box: D12 this is on every ten
minutes. Flick off one channel and you'll find it's just starting on
another. I don't necessarily mind this. Eamon as someone was
suggesting on Blissblog, it's the anti(dote to)'Slowjamz' (the weird
absences where the obscenities have been cut out functioning like the
******s in the tabloid renderings of Becks' textsex) a kind of
exquisitely prolonged seductioninreverse.Beyonce intolerable, surely
even the most diehard fan must agree. But does she have any, actually?
Diehard fans I mean. beyond belongs in a cosmos of cool consumer
choice, not fanaticism, you purchase the album on the way to Carpet
World, you buy it in the same way that you buy pot poured or air
freshener, and for essentially the same reasons. She empirically
leeches the libido out of everything she comes into contact with,
translating eroticism's sleaze and secretions into a paradoxically
dull gloss. Black Eyed Peas the new Fugees. Spizzazzz's Lil Missy Mack
hates the girl in be (who I think is called Ferdy?) Have you noticed
the way her image has been progressively cleanedup? In the video for
'Where is the Love' she looked trailertrash grubby, all piercings,
unwashed, ponytail scrunched hair, streetwalker jogging pants and
flowers to the camera; by the time of 'Shut Up', she was issued with a
wardrobe advisers' simulation of hip hop sportswear; now, in the 'Hey
Mamma' clip, she's decked out in short skirt and midriffrevealing crop
top, hair and eyes shining with an inhuman lustre. Basement tax has,
sadly, seemingly disappeared from the play list. Looks like I'll have
to go elsewhere for my tembo kicks. Status Quo playing Ska that's what
the new Streets single sounds like. On this abstraction thing, started
by David Stubbs, and taken up by Woebot, amongst others: first of all,
Angus is definitely right, music is INHERENTLY abstract and
nonrepresentational. (On fiction versus visual art: Burroughs famously
remarked that writing is lagging one hundred years behind visual art.)
I do wonder though if the supposed appeal of experimental visual art
as opposed to its sonic counterpart isn't partly to do with what
people are prepared to SAY they like. I'd question whether people
really like much experimental art; though for some reason, it's become
fashionable to claim to, so there's some kudos to be had for mooching
listlessly around galleries (like Ian Penman c'mon IP time for another
post! I've never really got the hang of what one's supposed to do in
galleries). Course this begs the question of WHY it's become
fashionable even compulsory to pretend to a taste for avant-garde art.
On the other hand, it's almost certainly the case that people enjoy
experimental music more than they think they do. Witness the use of
experimental composers on television and in films. The BBC Radiophonic
orchestra (which situated all manner of avant-garde trickery in the
most banal settings) is one example; Kubrick (with his use of
Penderecki and Ligeti) is another. When this music is given a context
and a function, when it is not at the centre of people's attention,
they can find a use for it. Actually, this argument is underscored by
Paul Morley's Words and Music(which I'm just hitching a lift through).
A central drift of Morley's argument is that the most opulent
superpopulist Pop (Kylie!) is indebted to the avant-garde at its most
forbiddingly austere (LaMonte Young, Cage, Stockhausen). Course, as PM
would be the first to admit, this is less a 'real' story than a
reflection of Morley's long-cherished PostModernist dream, what he
attempted to script and sculpt with Z.T.T.'s conceptPop. The
vindication of the avant-garde by Pop, and vice versa. On the kane
debate between Blissblog and Woebot: Simon: 'With Kanye, I just think
it's intriguing how he's praised for doing something that Puff Daddy
was reviled for. ' Hmmmm, interesting, but I think there are
differences: 1.I think we need to insist upon the point that Simon
somewhat grudgingly makes (re: mistakes and DJing) that SELECTION is
as important as ORIGINATION. In hyperdub culture, editing is not some
secondary or derivative process; it's what everything's about. The
contrast of kane with Puffy proves this; although their methodologies
are similar , the results are very different. (Kanye is brilliant;
Puffy was wack). 2. 'Through the Wire' is perhaps atypical of The
College Dropout in being, as Simon says, almost exclusively based on
one sample. Even 'Slowjamz' has much more music in it than 'Wire' (the
hook is sung rather than sampled). Luke's favourite 'Jesus Walks',
meanwhile, is a widescreen, Ray Harryhausenstyle sonic epic. 3. As I
recall and I've thankfully managed to expunge the memory of most of
Puffy's records Puffy tended not to sample vocals, whereas most of
Kanye's samples are of voice. Not sure what implication this has! More
substantial posts planned (been absorbing content, y'know how it is).
but for now I'd like to draw your attention to the some new blows on
the blow roll (including some WOMEN....) First up, three blows by the
same (unnamed) author: H.U.H.? , desire, rage, liberation and theses
you should write. Robin's already drawn attention to this post on
Nietzsche and blogging. Funnily enough, I've been teaching Beyond Good
and Evil this year, and only the other week, the similarity between
Nietzsche's aphoristic method and logging occurred to me. But I was
too slow off the mark, so H.U.H.? beat me to it. Can I also recommend
H.U.H's call for a Zizekian analysis of Sex and the City? Mr Big as
the Void : like it. Or should I say, lack it? Theses You Should Write
is also a lot of fun. It does exactly what it says on the tin:
suggests thesis topics for occult analysis, including, 'Dirrty Cyborg:
Reading Christina aguilar as a construction of postman sexuality' and
'Britney Spears does not exist: Simulacra and stimulation in
immaterial pop culture.' Both of these blows came courtesy of glueboot
(which itself came via Undercurrent ah, the joys of
networking!).Glueboot is a nice mixture of philosophical musing and
occult rant (naturally I second the savaging of Love, Actually on
principle, of course, since I haven't deigned to see it). Plus long-
overdue links to Peking O and Body Parts. As Luke and Oliver have been
saying for some time, these blows refresh the parts that other blows
do not reach: they're idiosyncratic, offkilter, totally
nonjournalistic/ journalese, and free of all references to music. Best
spambotgenerated title yet: eat terrier episcopal derogate acuity
dingo elite outworn bituminous attitude adequate thereunder vibrate
byte vast influence censorious dote hester foster hammond dyer
adherent daughter jewell squatter sleeve spokesmen It could almost be
heronbone! Here's one for Robin: Ghost Face kill versus random spam
text. (Link courtesy of Flyboy. Whore Cull on England Expects. (Glad
to see that they agree that pissing on the smugocrat trader was a
gratifying moment.) While yr there, check out the 'Thames Valley
Tossers' post below, hilarious stuff.... kpunk's attempt to answer
Polly Toynbee's article on Trevor Phillips and Scott's qualified
defence of it in the comments to the England Expects post. Scott: the
first four paragraphs are pretty much just establishing the facts so
that's OK. Well, what worries me about what Toynbee says here is the
import of her claims that it 'was never about objective facts' and
that '[t]he hard political task is to calm the way people feel.'
Granted, she's right that the anti-immigrant mania was never rational,
was never based upon objective facts, but what troubles me is the
implication that we should abandon facts rather than insist upon them
more than ever. It's only by making hard economic arguments about the
need for immigrants, about the vibrancy immigrants produce in a
culture that we'll persuade many of the sceptics (if indeed they are
persuadable; that's obviously questionable, to say the least). para.
5: "but the most dangerous divide now is in culture and that means
Muslim: ask the BNP" from the pop of the BNP supporter, that is
agreeable in itself. so i admit you can argue about that til the cows
come home. Well, the distinction between 'race' and 'culture' isn't a
given. After all, as Gilroy argues, race isn't a biological category,
it's a cultural enforcement. Besides, in effect, muslims have been
racialized, castigated as a racial other, in the BNP imaginary.
'British Muslims arrested last week as terror suspects had families as
British as Meera Syal's yet culturally they inhabit another universe.'
That's precisely the reason that immigration needs to be teased apart
from the 'cultural'/ religious question. The relationship between the
two is tangential, indirect. If 'we' stopped all immigration tomorrow,
the Islamist terror threat would remain. Maybe that's what she's
saying... but 'race', 'culture', 'religion', 'immigration', they're
connected in complex ways; this is where the rational arguments, the
objective facts, need to insisted upon. para. 6 mebbe you think sounds
a bit fortyish but aw shucks. Yeh, not much to contest there. para. 7:
"Embrace modern British values that include laws on equality for
women....No, it doesn't mean tearing off schoolgirls' headscarves";
well, this is nice, surely. Sure. para. 8 seems fair play. you can't
pick who's going to pick up and run w' you, even if you believe that
what someone is saying means inevitably only some ppl will run w'
them, and not others (in Toynbee land, this means not minding Tebbit
praising him whilst Vaz stamps his feet). there's nothing too bad
about this is there? No, but Tebbit's support does one give some pause
... para. 9 makes me feel a bit queasy, granted. but "...the context
has changed" sounds reasonable? Yeh, but the idea that the union jack
is 'our collective symbol' is not very convincing; partly for the
reasons Toynbee enumerates. the last two paras. admittedly leave a lot
to be desired. confusing whatever bad points she sees in certain
strains of multiculturalism with the Islamofascist project per se is a
bit dodgy (well, more than a bit), i guess. Yeh, it's a disastrous
equivocation. Plus both Toynbee and Phillips are begging the question
of what multiculturalism means, or could mean. Toynbee seems to follow
Phillips in thinking that multiculturalism has to mean separatism (or
multimonoculturalism). What is a better example of multiculturalism: a
muslimonly school in Bradford or grime? final analysis though, i'm
just quite grateful that Toynbee (who i don't normally feel, i admit),
writes "There will be no surprise, either, if the Tories use any minor
immigration scam to stir ill-founded fear of chaos on the borders,
especially as May 1 EU expansion day approaches" at the end. frankly,
i'm liable to let lots of really dodgy things sweep past my radar in
my haste to embrace ppl that are just generally ready to shout at
certain tabloids in the whole economic migrants/asylum seeker debate.
See where your coming from, absolutely. But this is not the time to be
conceding any ground to the far right. I know Toynbee doesn't intend
to do that, but the rhetoric of 'the end of multiculturalism' plays
into their hands, I think. Just watched all six episodes of the BBC's
1982 production of Le Carre's Smiley's People. Smiley's People needs
to be sipped, savoured, swilled around the palate like the fine
vintage it is; to be enjoyed as a cure for the attentionatrophying
aphasia of Now TV's kwickkutting migraine. It takes its languorous but
assured pace from Guinness, for whom the word 'lugubrious' might have
been invented. After the setup preamble in the first episode, there's
barely a frame of the drama which Guinness doesn't dominate. But his
dominance, like Smiley's, arises from a quiet natural authority that
disdain the tasteless excesses of ostentation and histrionics. Unlike
Olivier, Guinness is a natural film and television actor. His
understatedness, his mastery of the microgesture, make his
performances ideally suited to the closeup; he knows he doesn't need
to bark and mug in order to project to the back row. Comparisons with
the likes of shouting princess such as Gary Oldman are so invidious
that I won't pursue them. Guinness' well-heeled subtlety is
infectious; everyone in the cast plays their part to minority
perfection. Narratively, Smiley's People makes little if no sense
without the background provided by Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy, but,
much to its credit, the adaptation doesn't pander to audience
expectations by shoehorning embarrassingly contrived recapitulation
into the plot; the references to the previous serial are elliptical
and oblique. The back story Smiley's lifelong struggle with his
monkish and enigmatic double, Karla of 'Moscow centre'; Karla's
penetration into the heart of the Secret Service/ 'Circus', whose
total destruction is only narrowly averted by Smiley's uncovering of
Karla's mole, Bill Haden, a partial victory which does little to
assuage the professional and personal defeat effected by Haden's
affair with Smiley's wife, Ann emerges via offhand allusions,
questions, loose threads.In any case, affectively, it's clear what is
at stake; Guinness can convey the weight of a lifetime of accreted
pain, disappointment and stifled expectation in his movement across a
room, in the way he wipes his spectacles . Guiness's deflections of
the constant inquiries about Ann's wellbeing themselves multilevelled
interrogations, combining superficial politeness with genuine concern
and a saltinthewound crowing at Smiley's fatally compromised
masculinity are a masterclass in nuance. Smiley is famously the
antiBond; not the role but the wronged husband, not a man of action
but an expert manipulator and methodical researcher. He is the rotund,
whitetempled real to Bond's eternally virile fantasy. Yet Smiley is
now as much a part of the British mythscape as Bond, or Sherlock
Holmes. Eternally dutiful and imperturbably patient, he is the
cuckolded Arthur to Ann's guinevere and Bill Haden's Launcelot, a
prince in a Lacanian tragedy. Both Tinker, Tailor and Smiley's People
are dominated by two virtual absences: Ann (Sian Phillips) and Karla
(Patrick Stewart). Over the twelve hours of both serials, Karla and
Ann cannon occupy more than ten minutes of screentime between them.
Karla's role in the first serial is confined to flashback scenes of
his legendary encounter with Smiley in Delhi when the British agent
let the Soviet spymaster 'slip through his fingers.' Both serials' le
petit object a Fantastic Four movie in reproduction (FF cover from The
Silver Age Marvel Comics Index.) Matt's voodoo right. The kane West LP
is a masterpiece. Only the Junior Boys LP is remotely in its class
this year. I'm hooked. It's as sweetly addictive as Al Green or Julee
Cruise or Scritti circa Cupid and Psyche. Highlights: With its
juxtaposition of celestial longing and hypernaturalist kynicism,
'Spaceship' is in many ways the album's signature track. Kanye's
working a two-bit job ('this grave shift... like the slave ship'),
idly fantasising about fleeing the planet. You could hear it as an
earthbound elegy for the cosmic escapism of Funkadelic and Parliament,
their dreams of interplanetary lines of flight as exploded as the
Challenger space shuttle in the face of 00's drearealism. The samples.
Like rave's speeded-up samples of yore, Kanye's trademark technique of
pitching up vox (which are typically taken from is soul) has the
effect of both dehumanising and ultrafeminizing his vocal sources. The
result is literally divine: West restores ecstasy to its sense of
religious rapture. The Marvin Gaye sample in 'Spaceship' the trembling
'heaven knows' is a shiver/ sliver of pure yearning, both a reproach
to human limitations and a breaching of them. The gorgeous Luther
Vandross steal in 'Slowjamz' ('it's gonna be, it's gonna be, well,
well...') and the Chaka Khan sample in 'Through the Wire' you already
know about, the lovely Michael Bolton reconstruction on 'Never Let Me
Down' you've probably already heard about. its diffuse eroticism. As
Jamie fox establishes in his introduction, 'Slowjamz' is a song
attuned to women's desire. In place of crunk's scopo/necrophiliac
nihilibido, energetically fused with porn's testicular thermodynamics,
kane slowcooks his grooves to simulate/ stimulate the simmering anti-
climactic waves of female desire. its words. If you think 'Slowjamz'
and 'Through the Wire' are mellifluous poignant, wait till you hear
spleen Johnson's throaty plaint on 'All Falls Down'. This has all the
'What's Going On'acuity claimed for the Black Eyed Peas' 'Where is the
Love', minus the preachy piety. The College Drop Out never has a
simple message, an easy moral (indeed, its attacks on education are
frankly puzzling). Miri BenAri's vertiginous, cakewalkcrazy string
arrangements, heard to best effect on 'Workout', an alternative
universe's version of DJ Caspar's 'Cha Cha Slide'; just when you think
it's reached its peak of outhouse frenzy, kane throws in a lascivious
Zappstyle vododer. The thing is, Knight's problem is, there isn't the
fit between nationality, culture and most nebulous of all race that he
wants and needs there to be. As Knight ruefully remarks a propose East
European immigrants, being 'white' is no longer a guarantee that
'they' are 'one of us'. The globalization Knight fears and detests
actually has at least two, wholly different even opposed senses.
There's a telling moment when Knight learns that his job might be
under threat because of a reorganization initiated by his employers'
American parent company. Why doesn't Knight's lament for 'lost'
Englishness become transposed into a rage against the homogenizing
effects of American culture? On the face of it, Knight's anger could
just as easily go in the direction of a certain version of
anticapitalism. Or: the Far Right are already anticapitalist, since
capitalism presupposes a level of multinational miscegenation it finds
intolerable. Yet Knight's reflexes are always to racialize; to blame
the Jews not the Americans. The other type of globalization Knight
loathes is religious supranationality, the Islamic 'umma', the
religious community that has no respect for national borders. This is
what he fears; the Muslims owe their first affinity to their religion,
not to this nation. They are Enemies within, traitors. I'm not sure
what to make of the BBC's drama of a couple of nights back, England
Expects. In the current climate of toothless police dramas, pointless
star vehicles and anodyne political correctness, I suppose the BBC
could be considered brave for tackling the raw topic of racism and its
relationship to politics . TV 'drama's' tendency is to reduce racial/
racist politics to a flip manicheanism, but England Expects, at least
in its first hour, made an attempt to explore the complexities of the
motivations of its lead character Ray Knight (well played by Stephen
Mackintosh) . In some respects, England Expects' analysis of racist
psychology shared something with Potter's in Brimstone and Treacle.
Speaking in The Times, writer Frank easy said that, 'For the people I
spoke to (Deasy conducted extensive interviews with far-right
activists) theres a great deal of nostalgia for the way things used to
be.' Like Potter's Bates, Knight's deepest yearning was to turn the
clock back. Twenty years ago, the issue would have been whiteblack.
Not in England Expects. Knight's best friend at work was black, and
while he would have 'preferred a few less' blacks, it was clear that
his main problem was with Muslims/Asians and, less obviously but
equally significantly, with Jews. Knight saw Jews as the agents of a
cosmopolitan modernity, the secret rulers of the New World Order.
Interestingly, Knight's racism was strongly correlated with a
hostility to globalization. Both his superiors at the Canary Wharf
firm at which he worked as a security guard and his neighbours at home
(on the drugriddled estate on which he lived) were representatives of
the new localized world which had stripped him of all place, all
identity. (Although, in some ways, as easy suggested in The Times, in
the white racist imaginary, Muslims feature as a countermodern
tendency: 'one of the reasons Muslim communities are coming under
attack from far-right groups is an element of envy  having extended
families that work, having faith that works. They have values, a
cultural identity.') England Expects also highlighted the way in which
the BNP has appropriated working class grievances which would
previously have been the province of socialism. If the NF of the
seventies were ultimately undermined by the incorporation of their
agenda into the political mainstream by the Tories, then the opposite
may be happening now. Labour's capitulation to the Right agenda, its
risible attempts to appear tougher than the Tories (can anyone
remember that memorable Friday Night Armistice Sketch in which N.
Labour were seen threatening to kill a pet cat to demonstrate their
'strength'?), its refusal to vigorously defend the benefits of
immigration, has led to a creeping legitimation of the BNP's views.
The BNP are also almost certainly profiting from the
deproletranization of parliamentary politics. Blair's desperate
pursuit of the middle ground, his courting of the likes of Potter's
Bates, his purging of the Labour Party of all associations with the
working class, has left white proletarian rage nowhere to go but the
Far Right, so that Knight's first instinct when things were going
badly in his life was to look to racial, not class, causes. It perhaps
says something for my own class pathologies that I shared Knight's
anger towards the smug David Wattstype trader who got the woman he was
pursuing; but Knight articulated his hostility towards him, not in
terms of his wealth or success, but his jewishness. England Expects
was broadcast two days after Trevor Phillips, head of the Commission
for Racial Equality, called in The Times for an end to
'multiculturalism.' Phillips' argument seemed to equate
'multiculturalism' with 'separatism', and, the juxtaposition of a
headline decrying multiculturalism with an Islamist cleric burning a
union jack was uh a little inflammatory, to say the least. The Times
wheeled out a self-satisfied Norman Tebbit to express his pleasure
that the left were finally beginning to see the light. Jeez. So
Morrissey's new single, 'Irish Blood, English Heart,' couldn't be more
topical. Who is he speaking for Knight, Bates, Tebbit, Phillips? when
he sings the following: 'I've been dreaming of a time when/ to be
English is not to be baneful/ to be standing by the flag, not feeling
shameful / racist or racial.' The problem is that Morrissey's very
dream is itself racist, since what would such a time be if not a time
when there were far fewer black or brown faces in England, when the
Empire was feverishly exploiting Africa and Asia? There's something to
Phillips' claim that we require an inclusive Britishness but that will
have to be articulated in terms of a future cultural identity. All
appeals to a lost British past can only play to the psychopathology of
our Ray Knights. Troubled Diva with a broadside against pop in the
2000s. Is it too late to restart the optimism wars? (But with Basement
Jaxx, kane West, Usher and hell [Simon's right] even Maroon 5, I'm
feeling pretty optimistic myself at the moment.) But don't quote me on
that. I was somewhat distressed to learn from Popjustice that up-and-
coming cutting edge experimental NY popsters the Scissor Sisters were
greeted with indifference bordering on contempt at London's G.A.Y.
recently. Seriously, though, it's good to see that kpunk's grassroots
campaign is paying off. :) punk and undercurrent make it into Classic
Cafes' Britannia moribund section. Thanks, Mr Maddox. You may have
heard of tulipmania, a seventeenth century craze in the grip of which
people poached their fortunes on new strains of the flower,
speculating wildly on their future value. Lurid tales of noble
families whose whole accumulated wealth was squandered on a single
bulb tempted many an analyst to make a parallel between tulipmania and
the dot com boom . Well, I'm very sorry to tell you that, according to
Saturday's Times, tulipmania was a myth, invented in the nineteenth
century by the Scottish journalist Charles Mackay in his book
Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds. Apparently
Peter Garber, head of Global Strategy at Deutsche Bank, has done all
the numbercruching, establishing that little economic distress was
associated with the end of the tulipmania. I guess there's an
interesting hyperstitional take on how Mackay's 'confabulation' and
its later sectionalization by Alexander Dumas came to influence
economists like Galbraith, but I'm too deflated to come up with it at
the moment. Matt wins best joke of the week for his crane vs crane
hyperlink. LOL, or should that be ha ha? Mary Poppins Satanist shock.
The worst aspect of Dennis Potter's final two indulgent and indulged
works (Cold Lazarus and Karaoke) was that they had the effect of
retrospectively introducing doubts over everything else he'd done.
Could he possibly be anything like as good as we'd always believed?
Actually, there's a case for saying that, if 1986's The Singing
Detective marked the peak of Potter's career, it also preceded a slow
and painful decline. It would only be slightly harsh to say that
everything after 1986 was either formulaic reiteration (Lipstick On
Your Collar) or tortuously introspective, failed experimentalism
(Blackeyes, the film Secret Friends). By the time of his death in
1994, Potter had been ionized by the great and good everywhere, his
reputation for controversy forgotten (or forgiven?). Melvyn Bragg's
famous interviewcumhagiography elevated Potter to the state of an
unimpeachable morphine saint. All of this solemnity had the effect of
revitalizing Potter's work, prematurely shrouding it with all the
cobwebs of respectability and reverence. Well, thanks to Sphaleotas I
had the opportunity to see Potter's 1976 masterpiece Brimstone and
Treacle again very recently. (The play is shortly to be reissued as
part of a gustave Potter did boxset, which also includes The Singing
Detective, Pennies From Heaven and Casanova). In 2004, when TV drama
is corporate, committeedriven, blandly homogenous, Potter looks even
more of an anomaly than ever. Today, there's almost no way of
identifying TV dramas by who has written them; they are routinely
conceived of as vehicles for actors, not authors. By contrast, even at
its worst, Potter's work was marked by an indelible signature,
characterised by a singular VISION. (The tendency to fall back on
these trademark elements without remaining them was one of the
weaknesses of his last pieces). It's hard to imagine that Potter's
peculiar portfolio of obsessions and techniques (his playful
antinaturalism, his disturbed disquisitions on sexuality, politics and
religion, his loving interrogation of the appeal of pop music and pulp
genres, his exemplification/ analysis of misogyny) would get past our
00's culture's gatekeepers (which might be tolerant of representations
of sex, but which are, in every other way, more censorious than those
of the 70s). As The Independent pointed out when it reappraised Potter
in the light of the US film version of The Singing Detective, his
influence is more likely to be felt on American than on British TV, in
an expressionist drama such as Six Feet Under or even in the delirium
departures from naturalism of something like Ally McBeal. In any case,
Potter did fall foul of is sensibilities with Brimstone and Treacle.
Filmed in March 1976, it was due for broadcast as a Play For Today in
April, but was pulled at the last minute when the BBC authorities
quailed at its 'nauseating' qualities. It didn't surface until over a
decade later, when, in the wake of the success of The Singing
Detective, the play was eventually shown in 1987. An inferior film
version, starring Sting, was released in 1982. Brimstone and Treacle
features a young Michael Kitchen as the devil. In an echo of Potter's
earlier 'visitation' plays, Kitchen's character, Martin, inveigle
himself into people's lives and homes by cold reading them like a
stage hypnotist. Potter's vision of evil is a million miles away from
the whitecatting portentousness or Pacinolike histrionics to which
countless cliched cinema renderings have accustomed us. Kitchen's
devil is impeccably polite, insufferably, lovingly nice,
sanctimoniously religiose. 'Religiose' is a word Potter used with a
particular contempt, carefully contrasting its pious pomposity with
what he saw as the genuine religious sensibility. The play opens with
two epigraphs: the first from Kierkegaard's Fear and Trembling:'there
dwells infinitely more good in a demonic than in a trivial person',
the second from Mary Poppins ('A spoonful of sugar helps the medicine
go down'). For Kierkegaard, the most pressing danger for Christianity
was not doubt, but the kind of bluff certainty peddled by pompous
philosophers like Hegel. Kierkegaard's Faith was indistinguishable
from terrible anxiety. The paradox of Faith for Kierkegaard was that,
if God completely revealed himself, Faith would be unnecessary. Faith
is not a form of knowing; on the contrary. Kierkegaard's models were
Abraham on the day he was asked to sacrifice Isaac and Jesus'
disciples: tormented by uncertainty, moored from any of society's
ethical anchors, staking their life on fabulous improbabilities.
Martin is a perverse double of 76's most iconic of icons, Johnny
Rotten, that demonic purge of trivia and mediocrity. If Rotten's
Nietzscheanism ('I yam an antichrist') concealed a burning core of
righteousness, Martin's surface charm belies malevolence. At the limit
though, what both Rotten and Martin show is the deep complicity of
good and evil, their mutual interdependence. Both Martin and Rotten
are ultimately deliverers, destroyers of fragile status quos, bringers
of disequilibrium and agents of chaos. Punk's greatest disgust was
with the trivial and the mediocre, with the existential death of
boredom. The decadence would be cleansed by rage (cf the apoplectic
Colin Blakeley in Potter's 69 version of Christ's life, Son of Man.)
Brimstone and Treacle begins with Martin accosting Denholm Elliott's
Mr Bates in the street. Martin's questioning quickly establishes that
Bates has a daughter, suffering from apparently incurable neurological
damage after being hit by a car two years previously. Posing as an
unrequited admirer of the daughter, Pattie, Martin insinuated his way
into the Bates' home. The house is a suburban fortress incubating
quiet desperation, nagging frustration and unspoken betrayals. You can
almost smell the house, thick with the stench of unaided rooms, the
pulped food with which Pattie is spooned and despair. Martin's
incursion is greeted with initial suspicion and circumspection by Mr
Bates, but welcomed by the easily beguiled Mrs Bates (Patricia
Lawrence), eager to clutch at any potential escape route from the
treadmill of drudgery in which she is confined. While Bates has given
up any hope of Pattie recovering, his wife cherishes the seemingly
impossible dream of a miraculous return to health. Kitchen's
performance is magnificent, but it is Elliott who steals the show. He
manages, incredibly, to make the obnoxious and unpleasant Bates, a
neophyte National Front supporter, painfully sympathetic. The scene in
which Bates regales his wife and Martin with a desperately unfunny
Irish 'joke' is excruciating. Elliot renders Bates typical expression
as a grimace of irritation, suppressed rage, bewilderment. It is the
expression of a whole classs, a whole generations, incredulity that
the world no longer belongs to them, if it ever did. Bates political
pathology is rooted in a bewildered and misconceived nostalgia, a
bleary and inarticulate longing for the world to be like it used to
be. Hes a bit like the average briton fan would be twenty years later.
Potter is at his most politically acute here, in his exposing of the
proximity of a respectable, 'commonsense', Daily Mail agenda to that
of the Far Right. Potter locates Anglofascism's is heartland behind
the politely manicured lawns and privet hedges of suburbia. Martin
wins Bates over by agreeing with him that we need to get rid of the
blacks. Its so good to have an intelligent conversation like this,
Bates enthuses, cracking open the scotch. However, Martins gleeful
description of what will happen when they wont go  well round them up,
put them in camps  makes Bates blanche. Mrs Bates is not so convinced.
You can be too nice you know.Brimstone and Treacle is disturbing,
ethically opaque. It is a troubling for reasons other than those of
cultural or political conservatism. The denouement sees Martin's
raping of Pattie shocking her into an unexpected recovery (which
itself prompts the plays final shocking revelation, which I wont give
away for the sake of those who havent seen it yet). There is no easily
digestible message. Its a bitter pill rather than a spoonful of sugar.
Thanks to Sphaleotas for the tape, the conversations and the research.
I've just thought who that twat from Scissor Sisters reminds me of.
OK, we've established that he sounds like Leo Sayer but he looks like
noone so much as Rik from the Young Ones. Check it! More serious posts
later on today, I promise. What's the funniest thing on the Mr
Agreeable page? For sheer cruel accuracy, the description of Bobby
Gillespie's dancing is hard to beat: 'Gillespie when dancing, looks
like a baby giraffe maliciously dressed up in KeithRichardstyle
leathers, trying to keep its balance on a freshly polished floor
strewn with marbles.' ROTFL! But for belly laughs (in every sense) the
payoff line in his Raging Bull is priceless: 'Still, how often, when
De Niros Academy award-winning performance is cited, do they bring up
in awestruck tones how he bulked up 40 pounds for the final scenes? An
Oscar for getting fat! They should give me one.' However, the page
which reduced me to uncontrolled hysterics when I read it at work the
other day, was Mrs Agreeable's reply to a correspondent enquiring
about the health of Princess Margaret: 'You soufflebrained, lachrymose
f***ing shower of shit! It's bad enough that you gave a toss about
that bignosed, selfobsessed, shaghappy dinnervomiting, holidaytaking
f***ing hooray but that other useless f***ing carcinogenic sack of
gin? F*** right off! The sooner the f***ing monarchy are dragged out
along the f***ing Mall by their f***ing heels and f***ing beheaded in
Trafalgar c***ing Square, their dogs skewered, their horses eaten and
Buckingham Palace converted into a f***ing brewery, the f***ing
better! prefaced pack of c***s!' Y'see, you can't read it without
shuddering with laughter. Pure invective, unmitigated by any
sophistication, subtlety or decorum. soon therapeutic. More Mrs
Agreeable, please, DS. What a horrible thought.The new Basement tax
further enhances what is becoming really quite a promising year for
singles. I think that the tax are masters of the empathic riff: the
riff that comes out of nowhere, remorselessly indifferent to the track
it dominates. The video is also brilliant. It's made by Traktor, the
same folk who produced the outstanding 'Where's Your Head At' clip,
and it comes off as a cybernetic update of Westworld. Question: just
why are women simulating robots simulating women soooooooo sexy?
Popjustice makes my week by delivering appropriately judicious
verdicts on both beyond and ALICIA 'SURREY' KEYS. On B: she "really
needs people around her who can say, 'You are, frankly, mediocre, and
you're not going to fluke another 'Crazy In Love', so get The Child
back together pronto." LOL! And as for Alicia Keys, nice to see
someone breaking the oppressively tasteful consensus and admitting
that's she's dull, worthy, coffeetable, retro, no better than Jamie
cullam or Katie mellor really. To be honest witchya, I'd prefer to
listen to cullam or Mellua, at least they've got tunes. ... a piece of
Quatermass memorabilia , it'll only set you back $400 (or a mere $1500
readyassembled). 1) The Scissor Sisters singer. Wouldn't you like to
thump him in his smug, preening, polo mug? Again. And again. And
again. 2) Atomic Kitten. Soft target maybe, and they're splitting, so
perhaps it's pointless, but ... Not sure what's worse, their
'we'remadus' hedonic partygirl mode or their coy, sidelong downward
glances to camera (connoting that they are, y'know sensitive and
demure) pose. Well: you don't have to choose, because their farewell
single is a double A side, with one video for each mode/ mood. Kerist.
3) Janet Jackson's 'smile'. As artificial and sickeningly sweet as a
can of vanilla coke. As chillingly insincere as a politician's
handshake. As warm and inviting as a stopford wife's embrace. It seems
like Janet's been smiling nonstop for the last twenty years, her
dental dazzle a worryingly permanent fixture on the pop landsape.
Well, at least it distracts you from the music. Except her
forgetthemevenasyouhearthem self-raising texts do that themselves.
punk prize to the first person who can name five JJ singles (not
including anything off Jam and Lewis's brilliant Control).... WARNING:
LONG POST ON is TV FOLLOWS (COULD BE REGARDED AS NOSTALGIC) People
were spoiled in the 70s. Angus' misgivings about British TV now are
more than justified I don't hear anyone crowing that (ha!) we have the
best television in the world any more but and I brace myself for
another barrage of accusations of being nostalgic in the seventies,
well, maybe there was something to write home about. (And yes, of
course, at the bottom end, there was all manner of unspeakable dross.
Of course, of course. But at the top end?) For whatever reason,
contemporary reaction to Kneale's final Quatermass serial was less
than enthusiastic. Kneale hadn't written a Quatermass story since
1958, when Quatermass and the Pit was broadcast. (His disgust with
Hammer's casting of barking irish-born American drunk Brian Donlevy as
the eponymous hero meant that it took the best part of a decade before
Kneale would allow the studio to adapt that serial into a film. As it
happened, the result turned out to be the finest of the Hammer
versions.) Imagine that: everything had happened in those two decades.
1958 was a world away from 1979: a whole history of pop music, for
instance had been time-lapse condensed into the amphetamine
acceleration of the intervening years. Quatermass, always an
ambivalent figure in relation to modernism and to Progress like Freud,
he was their embodiment, and in being their embodiment also their
greatest critic; it's easy to see how Quatermass could have seemed
dustily, lustily outmoded, a fading monochrome relic, in brave new
1979. Postmodern temporality had not yet taken hold. We didn't know,
then, that everything would come back, eventually. Kneale had been
written the serial in the early is but the BBC's faintheartedness
about cost meant that it was eventually taken up by Thames TV's
filmmaking unit, Euston films. Instead of a budget of 250,000 for the
whole series, the production was now able to command 300, 000 for each
of its four episodes. Kneale apparently saw the serial as a requiem
for the Sixties: a dark parable about the thanatropic drives which
youth messianic could nurture. In place of the hippie dream of a
renewed Earth, his tranceintoxicated post-punk protocrusties the
Planet People long for an escape into another world, another solar
system. Quatermass' landscape was projected directly out of seventies'
anxieties. The choking ecosphere, the fuel shortages, the powercuts,
the disintegration of the social contract into a Hobbesian war of
allagainstall, it was Sixties' utopianism in ruins. Those barricaded
streets, the roving armed streetgangs (inspired by bader Meinhoff and
the Red and Angry Brigades) could equally well have walked off a
Killing Joke record cover or from a Conservative party election
broadcast. Such was the way in which imaginaries and impulses
reactionary, neoarchaic, radical became collapsed into one another
(collapsed like the abandoned vehicles from which the geriatric colony
in the serial construct their bolthole rhizome) in 1979. 1979, I
hardly need to remind you, was the year of Mrs Thatcher's election.
And of Gary Numan's Replicas and Joy Division's Unknown Pleasures. If
you want to think sf analogues for the 79 Quatermass, look to these
artifacts rather than to the epic progress (Star Wars and Close
Encounters) to which it was inevitably, and unfavourably, compared at
the time. Star Wars isn't even sf, its epic Fantasy; whereas Close
Encounters, in those early, obsessive scenes, is almost Knealeian,
actually but all of that is price dissipated in the Jarrelike sideshow
and cutesy big not bug-eyed 'aliens of the denouement. The legacy of
these big two was catastrophic, perhaps fatal, for big-screen sf. Its
not only the retreat from the social into Fantasy zones, or the
reduction of ethical complexity into simple-minded Manicheanism, its
the compulsory Spectacle of the conspicuously expensive FX . What
Close Encounters has in common with Quatermass is its vision of human
populations, entranced into unconscious complicity with the alien
powers. But Quatermass is consummately able to resist the temptation
to which Spielberg must succumb; that of anthropomorphizing the aliens
(cf AI). The purposes of the aliens in Quatermass remain sublimely,
unfathomable opaque, like their physical forms. Anything we learn
about them is conjecture, inference, speculation. They are light years
away from us. In every sense. Kneales great themes  the intimacy of
the alien; the lust for annihilation in organic beings this time
emerge in an analysis of Youth millenarianism. His rendition of youth
culture is, predictably, more NuttallBomb Culture, more civilization
and its Discontents, than it is AgeofAquarius utopian. The urge to
herd together into crowds, the, is interpreted symptomatically as the
following of a programme seeded deep into the unconscious of the
young. (Here is the convergence with Joy Division. The breathtaking
audacity of Unknown Pleasures, after all, lay in its presumption that
youth culture was essentially thanatoid. Maybe only the Stones had
made that equation so starkly, but they had only hinted at it,
returning to more familiar hedonic territority. Joy Division were
unremitting: a black hole effect, an inversion and terrible turning
against itself of rocks exhilaration and energy.) Kneales usual
cybergothic methodology  disinterring Now in the relics of the Deep
Past  focuses on Neolithic stone circles. Quatermass hypothesized that
the megalithic sites are trauma records, the stones arranged as
commemorations of mass exterminations. The Earths scar tissue. (The
parallel between astropocalyptic events and stone circles had actually
been made three years earlier, in ITVs memorably creepy childrens
programme from1976, Children of the Stones.) The stone circles were
the sites of what Quatermass ominously refers to as previous
harvestings of the human race. Who can guess what the species reaping
humanity is like and what their motivations are? A protein lust?
Quatermass can only guess. Refused permission to film at Stonehenge by
the British Tourist Board, Kneale switched a key scene to Wembley
stadium, which becomes a modern mausoleum. (An unwitting prophecy of
the cultural death of is stadium rock?) Kneale was disappointed with
the casting of John Mills, which was forced on him by Euston who
insisted on a big-name star. Kneale preferred Andre morel and Andrew
Keir (who played the scientist in, respectively, the TV and the film
versions of Quatermass and the Pit). He supposedly found Mills
insufficiently heroic, scarcely recognizable as the same figure morel
and Keir had portrayed. Yet Mills quiet anger, his compassion and
disgust for humanity, his slighted but enduring dignity, make him what
could be the definitive Quatermass. Mills brings a terrible authority
to the cosmic Spinozism of the shows ethical payoff. When the young
astronomer Joe app  just thawing from the shock of losing his entire
family  talks of evil, Quatermass corrects him: Maybe evil is always
someone elses good. Perhaps its a cosmic law. Intertextual link: The
Fall stole the Planet People's chant ('Lay! Lay! Lay!') on their 'Lay
of the Land' (off The Wonderful and Frightening World of...). It can't
only be me who's been incensed by the noxious cant and self-serving
hypocrisy issuing from Wapping in respect of Sven Goran Eriksson over
the last few days. (Actually, it isn't: at least one columnist in The
Times today raised an eyebrow.) No wonder the Swede was exasperated
and bemused by his recent monstering. All he had done, after all, was
speak to a prospective employer who was prepared to make him a very
good affair. An exceptional offer, actually. Eriksson stood to become
the best-paid coach in the world with an almost unlimited budget. Come
July, when those same journalists (mostly redtop, but not exclusively
so, I'm sad to say) may well be chief torchcarriers in yet another
witchhunt, this time calling for Eriksson's removal from the post, his
turning down the Chelsea job may be a decision she comes to rue. There
was no question of Eriksson walking out on England before or during
the European championship finals. His 'crime' consisted in sounding
things out, listening to an offer, considering his future after Euro
2004. Of course, no journalist a profession renowned for its high-
mindedness and ethical probity would even consider a better offer from
a rival newspaper. Heaven forbid. Needless to say, 'the motive' for
this latest slew of invective was the usual unseemly pottage of
journalistic opportunism, English autolaceration (for what would
driving Sven out be if not an act of collective selfdestruction?),
myopia and xenophobia. It is the journalists, not Sven, who are fellow
travellers and freeloaders; it is they who exploit the passion for the
national team, who exhibit a fickleness that goes far beyond mere lack
of loyalty. The criticisms of Eriksson for his alleged coolness and
deficit of passion trade on a less than subtle national stereotype,
but what they reveal is that it isn't SGE's lack of professionalism
that's the 'problem'; it's his excess of it. Eriksson's sin is to view
the England job as just that: a job. Not a divine mission, not a
lifelong vocation. But a job. As Sphaleotas remarked to me: would you
want a passionate plumber? But oh yeah, we had a passionate plumber.
Anyone care to remember Kevin Keegan? The implication of course is
that only a foreigner would view the post in so detached and pragmatic
a way. The idea that detachment, pragmatism and self-interest could
actually be virtues in an England coach this hasn't occured to any of
the hacks. (But, naturally, I'm giving them too much credit by
assuming there's any reasoning in their positions). Ask yourself this:
would we want an England manager who regarded holding the position as
being detrimental to his selfinterest? The embarrassing paucity of
credible alternative candidates is the most compelling argument for
going cap in hand to Sven. Alan Curbishley? Steve Mclaren? You're
having a laugh. Surely we've learned the lesson by now that employing
an international coach who has not won a trophy of any serious status,
let alone a league championship, is, to say the least, a mistake. To
this minimal requirement, I would add: some experience of managing
top-quality players and of the Champions League and, preferably, some
experience of managing abroad. Successful experience, I hardly need
add. btw It's actually the rare England manager who has won a league
championship. (I think the last one was Terry Venables, who won La
lisa with Barcelona back in 1985. And before that?) Sven's c.v. prior
to taking on the England job was, by some considerable distance, the
most impressive of any incumbent. Bobby Robson's most successful work
was done after he managed England. And as for Hoddle, Keegan?
Alsorans, nevershould have beens. I don't mean to disparage Curbishley
or Mclaren. Far from it. But they're clearly not ready for the job and
in any sane world, they wouldn't even be considered for it. We should
count ourselves lucky that we've still got Sven. Proof that there is a
God. And that one should never give up hope. Posts on the final
Quatermass serial and Dennis Potter.... But for now, just have to
share with you a coincidence. Last week, we were discussing Romero's
Season of the Witch (which as one correspondent pointed out is
broadcast tomorrow, on C4, albeit at the ungodly hour of 1 A.M.)
During the course of this discussion, another correspondent mentioned
Halloween III: Season of the Witch. Who should have been the original
scriptwriter for this film? None other than Nigel Kneale. It turns out
that Carpenter, perhaps not surprisingly, was something of a Kneale
devotee; he used the name 'Martin Quatermass' as an alias for his
scriptwriting of Prince of Darkness and made references to Quatermass
and the Pit in In the Mouth of Madness. Nah, Luke's wrong. Or at
least, it wasn't ever thus. NME in the late seventies and early to mid
eighties (Penman, Morley, Burchill, Kopf, Sinker), Melody Maker in the
mid-to-late eighties and early nineties (Simon, Stubbs, Paul Oldfield,
the Stud Bros, Taylor P), the Wire with Mark S at the helm, even those
few pages of iD over which kodak and Steve Beard presided for the best
part of the 90s: all these magazines/ papers were urgent,
indispensable, inspirational for a time. No doubt there are hard
social, demographic and economic reasons why they ultimately went into
decline or died out altogether, no doubt miserabilists and
impossibility (aka 'realists') will argue that the conditions for
those flashes of poppublishing brilliance were anomalous and couldn't
be recreated today. No doubt... But I'm not persuaded. The tragedy of
the likes of Penman and TP languishing in demiemployment, while PR
hacks snort record company coke; this is a cosmic injustice that
demands some recompense, some karmic payback. The catalytic power of
magazines, their capacity to dream alternatives, to escalate and
produce scenes. Perhaps it IS gone, gone forever as pop writers become
corporate lackeys, but I reserve the right to mourn its lack. Well,
just to see if my memory deceived me, I bought Isn't Anything on CD
having long since lost my cassette of it. Listening to it again, I
find nothing to shift me from my conviction that Loveless is clearly
the superior effort. To my ears, Isn't Anything is en route to
Loveless, an audition. It's the sound of a band whose iridescence has
yet to fully emerge from the calloused rock skin they still had to
slough off in order to become what they were. Compared to the
celestial idiolect of Loveless absolutely singular, absolutely unlike
anything else Isn't Anything is recognizably eighties alt.rock, albeit
given a twist, but it's not transfigured, notsurpassed. (Whilst
manifestly their superior, it isn't a million miles away from the
indiethrash of The Shop Assistants or The Primitives). Rock's grammar
and structure are retained and respected, with bass, drums, guitars,
vocals mixed separately; there is none of or rather only a hint of
Loveless' dizzying synaesthesia. Unlike Loveless' globules of sonic
sorcery, these are songs that seem to have their origins in live
performance. Isn't Anything is rooted in its time in a way that
Loveless is not. Dare I say it, Isn't Anything still has an Indie
clumsiness (mark especially the often clodhopping drums). I expect
it's precisely this lejeune quality that people find winning. And I
suppose what many enjoy in the album, its variations of tempo, mood,
sound what I think people are calling its 'dynamics' are what I now
find frustrating, distracting. The erotic paradoxes the words allude
to, the androgynous bisexuality ('women have sex organs just about
everywhere' Irigaray) remain (largely) gestural, not yet sonically
embodied. The MBV of Isn't Anything stick to the postmark Chain
formula of buzzsaw plus sweet harmony, keeping Yin and yang elements
oilandwaterseparate, deriving a thrill from their juxtaposition or
their overlaying, not integrating or better yet disintegrating them as
they will in Loveless' bitches' brew. Loveless is not a wall of sound
hard, impenetrable but a fog, dissipative, yielding, clammily
intimate. On Isn't Anything Rock's urgencies, its climactic logic,
hold the whip hand; you are hurried along, kept at a distance, not
enveloped, not drowned, not dreamt. Not yet. Another fantastic
hEliumedup ravestyle vocal sample on the new kane West single.... I
doff my cap in gratitude to the grevious angel for his kind mention in
his best of the blows round up. But 'hipster intellectual'? I'd be
happy to be either a hipster OR an intellectual. Everyone should do as
Paul recommends and go to the breast cancer site all you have to do is
click on it and it raises money for mammogram for underprivileged
women. There's absolutely no argument against making the click... And
it's update your links time, cut grevious angel has moved. Apropos
Simon's discussion of antislowjams, blatantly sexual tracks are an
easy target, but what about tracks that are uh bending over backwards
to be erotic but which are about as alluring as last week's socks?
Case in point: maria Carey's 'Honey'. (Actually, it's a bit of a
random selection with Mariah; just about any of her 'r and b' numbers
would have been equally culpable, although I suppose there's a case
for saying that 'Honey' is especially sleazy, with its onto subtle
semenislikehoney simile). And naturally Beyonce's latest would get a
vote from me: Beyonce's patented 'erotic' moans (all those divans
'whoooooahs') are about as convincing as those of a Kings Cross
prostitute at the end of a particularly demanding shift. Just why is
it that beyond is so unsexy? Now, like Matt and Robin, I'm becoming
besieged by spam in my comments boxes. It seems to target posts of a
few weeks back (especially Cafe Culture and Comedy/ Drama). Does
anyone know how to turn comments off particular posts in movable type?
Also, how does one configure movable type so that it sends an email
alert every time a comment arrives? Check this . (And just so I don't
get accused of failing to attribute ideas to their originators, thanks
to Steve hyperdub for the link.) I can't believe that, in the optimism
wars of a few weeks back, people were citing The Scissor Sisters as a
reason to be excited. The Scissor Sisters. Bloody hell. That new
single: it's MOR in the most mediocre and uninteresting sense, isn't
it. As for Franz Ferdinand, well: a photostat of twenty-year old art
rock/ post punk... Pleased to see Jon Dale defending Loveless against
attack from Tim johnson (supported, surprisingly, by one Simon R in
the comments box). My view is that Loveless is the mistresspiece it is
so often held to be. What I enjoy is its lack of dynamics, the drowned
world amniotic languor of its achieved plateau. The fact that 'every
track sounds the same' is usually a compliment in my book, and is
especially so here. It is the courageous band who discover a plane of
consistency and have the vision to occupy and explore it, refusing the
temptation to 'demonstrate their breadth'. All great albums are
variations on a theme. They draw us into another world, their world,
to which we must attune and acclimatize ourselves. We need to develop
new microperceptive faculties in order to orient ourselves, or in
order to accept our disorientation (blissoreintation?) Isn't Anything
is a great album, for sure, but it's the sound of a band still
escaping from rock. No doubt that gives the album a sense of drama
that is absent from the anticlimax that is Loveless. Isn't Anything
has more jagged edges, a terrain whose variegations makes it more
palatable to rock tastes. Loveless, by contrast, is a world with no
edges, a world of deceptive similarity in which it is easy to become
lost (for to locate yourself here you must lose yourself): an irigaray
vaginal anarchitecture, a Turneresque squall, in which the tracks are
not so much the same as undifferentiatable, everything is smeary,
bleary, blurred, slurred. Listening, you're drawn towards images of
what is neither solid nor liquid, but viscous: honey, molasses,
clotted blood. Loveless' sumptuousness is dedicated to the light-
headed heaviness of dreamless (so close to nightmare dread it
sometimes seems that it is only a matter of perspective that divides
one from the other), the woozy, heavy-lidded surrender of agency in
sleep; or to sleep, to desire, to the erasureofthe self that is
involved in both. Loveless is the sound of a body that might be
famished or might be voluptuously satiated. The sound of a someone
having their blood drained and also the sound of someone engorged on a
new kill's blood; the becoming of vampire and victim (which may also
be the becoming of mother and child). Gorged and gorgeous. re:Simon's
recent spoon comments on crunk's carnality: is there a more carnal
music than Loveless? Shadowing crunk's jaded carnival is the sadness
that dogs all pornoscopic desire.Jess's comparison of drunk with men
shouting at strippers is all-too apt. The homosocial bawling, the
emphasis on appropriation through the gaze, the equation of sexual
congress with affirmation of ego, all those hard edges, all that
bluster, all that distance (the distance that the eye unable to touch
imposes), what a contrast with the almost unbearable tactility, the
cloying intimacy, of Loveless. And doesn't Loveless' soft delirium
show up the painful pathos of masculinity, doesn't it, in its yielding
dampness, expose the horrible fact that male desire perforce involves
a BACTERIA IN DUB will celebrate the launch of luciano Parisi's book
'Abstract Sex: Biodigital Machines and the Mutations of Desire'
(Continuum Press 2004), and the first release on record label
Hyperdub, kode & daddy gee's 'Sign of the Dub'/'Stalker'. BACTERIA IN
DUB will feature extracts from the book, version by kode & daddy gee,
accompanied by video works by Space Ape.BACTERIA IN DUB will occur
between 4 and 7pm, on Saturday the with of March at Plastic People,
147 Curtain Road, Shoreditch, London E1. (nearest tube Old Street) Hey
you london-based bloggaz, you should all come to this. Matt, Eden,
Jim, Oliver it'd be a great chance to catch up with y'all. Luke, do
you work Saturday? Gratifying flurry of activity over at Carlin
Towers. I especially like Marcello's disinterring and dustingoff of
Gilbert O'Sullivan(the invocation of yet another ghost from my Radio
listening childhood); this kind of transvaluation of discarded,
disregarded and forgotten MOR is probably what I most treasure about
Marcello's writing. And his psychodramatic journey through the new
Streets' LP is almost enough to interest me in it. Almost. Mike
Skinner. Now there's a man in need of a reaping. The Elvis Costello of
'garage' anyone? The original piracy post has slipped off the front
page now (and with it my dreams of reaching the comment mark), but I
don't want the discussion to peter out yet. Abe makes some points that
need to be addressed, even though I'm not sure what the answers are.
In response to my protest that, just because p2p/downloaidng is
inevitable is no reason to celebrate it, Abe points out that 'the
development needs to dealt with. one option is to rigidity and resist,
attempt to turn back time. another is to roll with it, and attempt to
construct a system that address the issues in a new manner.' He goes
on: 'I think we all can agree that musicians should be getting paid.
But its an issue of how. And I personally think the old intellectual
property system is broken on a number of levels. Culturally,
technologically, in my mind philosophically... ' And then Abe raises
the issue of how downloading is to be policed (if it all): 'I'm
curious as to just how you expect to counteract file sharing. Teach
the kids not to do it? Enact a DRM regime? Go with an EFF/ASCAP style
mandatory licensing scheme? Its hard to get people to pay for things
they can get for free you know.." Some recent comments of new pod
enthusiastic Gutterbreakz are also highly germane: "Okay, so I've
become an mp whorethief. And objectifying my music collection feels
pretty fucking good right now. I just reached the point recently where
I suddenly realised that I don't want anymore CDs, vinyl etc. Sure, my
appetite for new music remains undiminished, but having to own, store
and maintain this collection of stuff is getting to be a bit of a
drag. I already own more CDs than most other 'regular' people, and I'm
damned if I'm gonna put up another fucking shelf when the current one
fills up. The idea of noncorporal music storage sounds like just the
ticket. It's been fascinating to observe how pod has been changing my
listening habits. The ability to quickly scan through your collection
by artist, album, composer or genre is truly liberating. Far more
efficient than peering at endless CD spines, searching for
inspiration. And the ability to quickly cue up 'playlists' is a
revelation. It's like making yourself a new compilation tape every
day. I know there's a lot of people out there, including some close
friends, who find the whole concept horrifying. But try it first.
Believe me, it's the future." And a line to chill the heart of Matt
Woebot: 'I can division in maybe ten years time having almost no
physical music collection at all, other than a few symbolic or
sentimental items.' I haven't got much to say at the moment, I've
already confessed to being a digital conservative; I suspect many of
my attitudes will appear reactionary, absurdly archaic, in a few years
time. No doubt Abe's right; even if we wanted to prevent downloading,
we couldn't. I know Matt and I are in a minority when it comes to
questioning pop and mp downloading, but well, this new objectified
world of music, it still makes me uneasy........ Now available on The
Kubrick Site (invaluable source of resources on SK for those who don't
know it), Bill Krohn's Deleuzeinspired analysis of Full Metal Jacket
as the cinema of the brain. The relevant extracts from Deleuze's
Cinema 2: The Time Image Sinker on Donovan's 'Season of the Witch'.
Has anyone seen the gratifyingly weird Romero movie(which features the
Donovan tune)? Yep, I agree with Simon about 'Slowjamz'; it's that
heliumedup vocal in the chorus that does it, innit? Also rather
partial to the new Sugababes. In fact, I pretty much like everything
they do. Two caveats about their eminently humble latest: 1) The video
it's kinda sleazy. The girls trying way way too hard. Didn't the
appeal of the Sugababes used to be that they were kind of
ordinarylooking? This transmutation into poledancing temptress doesn't
do anything for me. 2) The lyrics it's like they are written by an AI
attempting to simulate a zeroes' Pop song. All the individual words
make sense, but the lines, the song as a whole, it makes no sense at
all. An interesting addendum to the mp discussion here by the genius
Carmody. By New Right, I wonder if Robin means quasiFascistnationalist
or newton promarket? It makes all the difference. Quite how
filesharing maps onto molar politics is a fascinatingly fraught
question, but not at all clear. I've already cited the simplistic
arguments of the socalled dot communists. Their message: culture
should be free. Free, that is, in a double sense, liberated (as in,
'information wants to be free'), but also gratis, available to all. As
I've argued, the apparent nobility of this position conceals some lazy
and unsupportable assumptions. I hesitate to call it leftist, actually
how can a position so proconsumer and so antilabour/ producers be
leftist? but it certainly conveniently highlights the vices of a
certain left mentality (the assumption that charging for things is
wicked and indefensible, that people somehow have a right to culture
but no obligation to pay for it). It seems to me that Mark S and Abe
in the comments here represent a much more subtle and sophisticated
version of this type of thinking, spliced with, especially in Abe's
case, a strain of libertarianism. It's this libertarianism that
suggests the dovetailing of a prompt position with elements of
neoconservatism. But where I don't see a connection with
neoconservatism is on the issue of marketization. Take, for instance,
Mark's point from Jefferson that culture should be considered a
'necessity' and effectively removed from the marketplace. I would
expect neurons to take exactly the opposite view: i.e. that everything
should be marketized. I don't see how this can be squared with pop
practice AT ALL. Thank God I'd been fortified byte Reaper before
watching the conclusion of the repeat of C4's 100 Best Films Ever last
night. I missed this the first time round, and you know what a sucker
I am for these lists and charts. But by the seething void of uttunul,
this was mortifying. Stubbs' savaging of Gladiator and The Shawshank
Redemption were thankfully fresh enough in my mind to defend my CNS
against a Scannerstyle meltdown of rage upon witnessing their top ten
that's right top fucking ten placings, which is to say, higher than
Vertigo, higher than Citizen Kane.... The Reaper's invective also
inoculated me against the fact that The Full Monty was placed in the
top 100 yes, people really do consider it one of the 100 best films
ever made. Give me strength. But NOTHING, nothing, could protect me
from the unveiling of calm down, Mark, take deep breaths Star
mothafucking shitting bastard Wars as number one. Number one! The best
film ever made. The best film ever made. Time was when I would idly
toss Ballard's description 'Hobbits in space' at SW by way of
dismissal, but that, errr, doesn't really suggest withering contempt
any more. One can only assume that the top ten would be worse now than
when C4 did the poll in 2002 I suppose it's just a question of how
many of the goddamn lot movies would make it into the top 10. ....And
you saw it speculated upon here first .... I like Eccleston; he can
have a real edge and intensity. What I worry about is his doing one of
his 'posh' accents (a la 28 Days Later and The Others); he is always
painfully unconvincing when attempting this. But I suppose the
possibility of his doing the Doctor in broad Salford is uh somewhat
small... By way of a supplement to Matt's blogroll of honour, a few
blows that DEMAND plaudits: My boy Robin I called Undercurrent the
best new blow on the block a while back and I see no reason to revise
that estimation. Incisive, compelling, knowledgable, and with an
assured lightness of touch, undercurrent has what IMHO many more
narrowlyfocused music blows lack a breadth of cultural reference that
makes his music discussions MATTER. Erase the world Vividly evocative,
beautifully honed prosepoetry, ETW's transposition of existential
desolation into jewelled words never disappoints. Like Undercurrent,
Baal's music coverage gains in power for not being the exclusive
subject of the blog. Oliver. Noone who's sampled any of the boy
Craner's proliferating altars can mistake the quality of insigh,
research and writing. It's almost enough to interest me in politics,
current affairs and Important Stuff. New York London Paris Munich. The
definitive popblog. Nuff said. (btw for those folk who haven't caught
it, you can see Tom taking up the theme of tracking down Marvels in
the is here). Crumbling Loaf the meister or moroseness, the prince of
ennui... More updates please:I Feel Love Most missed: they still
update occasionally, but WAY too infrequently: It's All In Your Mind .
And of course, Penman Naturally I echo Simon and Robin's
recommendations for David Stubbs' new site. The more I've thought
about this, it occurs to me that as long as there's been a world we
have been creating an imaginary counterpart to that world with
different places, different people, different history, and to some
degree that phantom world of the imagination has coexisted with our
own." So I watched The League of Gentlemen on video at the weekend.
Its a passable enough romp, if no masterpiece. More intriguing than
either the film or the graphic novel upon which it is based (O.K.: Ill
level with you, Ive only read the second volume of the gnovel) is its
premise. Im sure everyones familiar with Alan Moores conceit: the
wheeze being to combine characters from a number of late-victorian
fictions  Mina Murray from Stokers Dracula, jekyll and Hyde from
Stephensons novella, Captain new from Verne's 20,000 Leagues Under the
Sea, the eponymous hero of Wells The Invisible Man, H. Rider Haggards
Allan Quatermaine, ConanDoyles Moriarty and (in the film alone) Wildes
Dorian Gray. Idle goggling after watching the film turned up this
fascinating article by Peter Sanderson. Sanderson shows that Moores
aim was an exploration of the origins of the c superhero concept in
certain archetypes of Victorian fantastic fiction. Moore makes
parallels between the iconography and concepts of the superhero comic
and those of his simulated nineteenth century world. The name, League
of Extraordinary Gentlemen, for instance, was conceived of as a kind
of preach of DCs Justice League of America and of Marvels XMen. (Hence
the marketing of the movie as a Victorian XMen.) In addition, Moores
remaining of the Edward Hyde character as an enormouslyproportioned
brute with superhuman strength  in other words as a kind of c Hulk
was an allusion to Stan Lees wellknown claim that the Hulk = jekyll
and Hyde + Frankensteins Monster. Moores ambition extended beyond a
genealogy of the superhero, though, and embraced broader questions
about the relationship between fiction and reality. Moores contention
is that the construction of mythical systems is as old as the species
itself, and, in the second volume of the gnovel, he includes an
absurdly compendium Travelers Almanac which incorporates and
interleaved Moores own retelling and appropriations of fictional
characters into a grand cartographic survey of the worlds mythologies.
Sanderson demonstrates that Moores methodology is nothing new, finding
parallels for this appropriate implying (or enfolding) in such august
sources as Dante and Virgil (remembering of course that Dante famously
implied Virgil into his own mythscape). A more recent analogue is
Philip Jose Farmer, whose Wold Newtons fictions retold the stories of
Doc Savage, Tarzan, Sherlock Holmes, amongst many others. Farmers idea
was that a meteor hit a small English village in 1795, causing
mutations in the genuine which ultimately result in these heroes. (cf
also Marvels Conspiracy miniseries, which cheekily suggested that the
whole pantheon of Silver Age Marvel heroes were the results of US
government experiments with radiation.) Sanderson identifies that what
was unique about is Marvel was that it projected a consistent
universe. In the years prior to Marvels arrival, DC  which trumpets
itself as the original universe  had in fact failed to cotton on to
the possibilities of creating a plane of consistency connecting all
their books. Marvels titles, on the other hand, were from the start
envisaged as an interconnected rhizome, presided over by the
omniscient creatorwritereditor Stan Lee (with footnotes which, as per
my last Marvel piece, added to the frustration of the Brit reader:
i.e. see Defenders 14  which you knew very well that you would never
see. But thats another story.) Were approaching the mechanics of Pulp
Theology. Pulp is above all aboutthe production of universes . Not
parallel universes, but universes which establish a plane of
consistency between their fictional world, our world and previous
fictional worlds/ mythologies. Compare for instance Marvels use of
Dracula, Frankensteins Monster, Norse mythology (Thor). Consistency is
a crucial dimension of what fascinates about Pulp. Whereas the
artistauthor insists on repeated acts of new creation, building worlds
anew with each fiction, the pulp author supplements and elaborates
upon the same mythscape,. With each additional fiction, the mythwolrd
becomes more and more independent, attains an autonomy from its
supposed creator. It is as if at a certain point the unconscious
refuses to accept the unreality of the characters and the world to
which they belong. (No negation in the unconscious according to Freud,
remember). As these worlds become more autonomous, have more reality
invested in them by their readers, they cease to be the exclusive
product of their supposed creators. It is for this reason that authors
are often uneasy about the production of such world; Stephen Kings The
Dark Half and Misery and Peter Straubs Mr X give an insight into the
disquiet  and distaste  mass market authors can have for readers who
take their fictions too seriously. King can be contrasted with
hovercraft who, like Marvel, constructed a consistent universe across
his fictions. It is not so much the power of Lovecrafts lurid
descriptions which give rise to the sense of reality his fictional
world acquires; it is the sheer fact of his universes consistency.
Erik Davis points to this in a brilliant piece on Lovecraft, : 'Though
hovercraft broke with classic fantasy, he gave his Mythos density and
depth by building a shared world to house his disparate tales. The
Mythos stories all share a liminal map that weaves fictional lace-like
Arkham, Dunwich, and Miskatonic University into the New England
landscape; they also refer to a common body of entities and forbidden
books. A relatively common feature in fantasy fiction, these
metafictional techniques create the sense that Lovecraft's Mythos lies
beyond each individual tales, hovering in a dimension halfway between
fantasy and the real. hovercraft did not just tell taleshe built a
world.' Davis calls Lovecrafts approach magick realism, although  with
due deference to Angus objections to this genre I should point out
that he distinguishes Lovecrafts fiction from that of authors like
Allende and Marquez. Whereas Marquez and Allende dust conventional
realism with a patina of the Fantastic, Lovecrafts tales had a more
literal magical dimension. Davis: Many magicians and occultists have
taken up his Mythos as source material for their practice. Drawn from
the darker regions of the esoteric countercultureThelema and Satanism
and Chaos magicthese Lovecraftian mages actively seek to generate the
terrifying and atavistic encounters that Lovecraft's protagonists
stumble into compulsively, blindly or against their will. Naturally,
Lovecrafts world depends for its living vitality upon being taken for
real by fans. The word "fan", Davis identifies, comes from fanaticus,
an ancient term for a temple devotee, and hovercraft fans exhibit the
unflagging devotion, fetishism and sectarian debates that have
characterized popular religious cults throughout the ages. It is this
fanaticism that so troubles some authors. Straubs Mr X, by the way, is
about a reader who  straus implies  idiotically refuses to accept the
supposed unreality of Lovecrafts fictional cosmos. Compare this with
John Carpenters masterpiece, In the Mouth of Madness. The film is
itself a hypercommentary on Pulp, in which writer butter Cane (a
thinlyveiled KingLovecraft composite) acts as the conduit for an
invasion and contamination of our world. The invasion is not
supernatural, but ontological. In a textual analogue to the Videodrome
signal in Cronenbergs film (one of countless Horror references in
ITMMM), Canes novels weaken their readers hold on this reality,
preparing the way for the return of the Old Ones. Cane ultimately
comes to the realization that his fictions were retroengineered by the
Old Ones as a means off ensuring their return. I thought I was making
it up, but they were telling me what to write. Cane explicitly
compares his fictions to religion, but concludes that noone ever
believed religion enough to make it work. The relation between Pulp
and religion is, after all, more a matter of cultural policing
mechanisms than it is a reflection of their substantive content. pad
demonstrated time and again that the distinction between pulp fiction
and Gnostic revelation was an optical illusion, and what could be a
better demonstration of the interchangeability of cheap SF and
religion than the career of L Ron Hubbard and scientology? This
interestingly connects up with the mp debate currently raging in the
comments below because in many ways the cost of producing a universe
is that your characters become public property. (Marvels own fierce
protection of its own copyrights perhaps belies this somewhat; I never
really understood how Wu Tang got away with their outrageous but
brilliant appropriation of Marvel memes). Moores very ability to
incorporate a range of characters from different authors into his
League presupposes that these characters have entered the public
domain. Such fictions gain reality by being dissociated from a single
author, by being collectivized. Again, both hovercraft and Marvel are
models here  hovercraft famously encouraged other writers like August
delete and Clark AshtonSmith to contribute to his cosmos, and this
process continued posthumously when the likes of Brian Lumley and
Ramsey Campbell starting producing their own additions to the Cthullhu
mythos. Enough, for now. Another great post from Nick Gutterbreakz.
Nick's comments on the difficulty of tracking down Marvel comics in
the seventies are especially resonant for me. I echo absolutely what
Nick says about the allure of the newsagents and the experience of
discovering treasure proves of back issues in outoftheway seaside
shops. Britain in the seventies still felt like a wartime rationing
culture. It wasn't only the dominance of war comics ('Die, Fritz!
Aaaaarghhhhhhh') that reinforced this impression; it was the sense of
living in a monochrome outpost of the past. There's a Robin
Carmodytype analysis to be done of the Britcomics culture of masculine
sporting and fighting prowess, with its association of Englishness
with a turnofthecentury Public School model of heroism. (This was
doubled by the celebration of an innocent 1930svintage juvenile
delinquency in kidcomics like the Beano and the Dandy). In any case,
we accepted that living in Britain meant being mired in a historical
backwater, that our culture was a threadbare, macedo shadow of
America's. The UK Marvel reprints stood out from the other British
comics because of their glossy covers, so I remember being heartbroken
when, for some reason best known to themselves, UK Marvel reverted to
paper covers. But even within the glossy covers, the Marvel UK comics
were black and white. What more telling symbol of the relationship
between British culture and American culture at the time could there
be than the fact that our comics were black and white whereas
America's were, as Marvel proudly announced, 'allcolour'? In those
days, long before comic shops were conceivable, especially in the
nowheresville, Leicestershire where I lived, American comics were as
rare and sporadic a presence as nylons in wartime. As a consequence,
it was impossible to follow any story through. So the experience of
reading the American Marvels was fragmentary and tantalizing: you knew
when you breathlessly reached that cliffhanger panel ('Next: The
Abomination') at the end of the issue that you would never manage to
get hold of the next installment. Hence each issue was hoarded like
cargoculted debris, a window into an alien world. As Undercurrent's
banner commemorates, the advertisements were an integral element of
the experience. The box of civil war soldiers, slimjims, hostess
twinkies, life-sized Frankensteins, ray Specs, selling Grit: these
products (forever denied us by the lack of a zip code), fanfare in the
pages between the stories, became associated with Marvel's mythworld.
re: my position on the UK comics contingent, I think some
clarification is required. My problem with Moore et al wasn't so much
with their Marvel UK work; it's the stuff they produced afterwards
that I'm more ambivalent about. Actually, it's not quite true that
Moore and Davis rescued Captain Britain. CB started off as a laughable
disaster area for sure; the stories in the woefully disappointing
Captain Britain Weekly were interesting only as an insight into
American fantasies about Britain: red buses everywhere, bluehelmeted
coppas, aristocrats living in stately piles, and a superficial
smattering of Arthurian atmospherics. But when Captain Britain
returned in Hulk Weekly, allied with the Black Knight and authored by
a British creative team, it was much stronger. Captain Britain wasn't
an ersatz copy of an American hero any more; the authors interpolated
him into a more denselyrealised realm of Druidic myths. And when
Captain Britain returned again, in the period immediately preceding
Moore and Davis' takeover, he was changed once more. This time, CB's
world was derived from the twisted protoanglopsychedelia of Lewis
carol and the Avengers: a playing card, looking glass world full of
bowler-hatted eccentrics and amiable psychotics. I was particularly
fond of the Crazy Gang, for instance. OK, here's kpunk's contribution
to the mp debate initiated by Matt. First off, I'll confess to being
something of a digital conservative. I do occasionally download but
partly cos I've got a Mac and can't access the likes of SoulSeek not
very often. I don't have an iPod, nor do I particularly want one. The
thought of all my tracks swimming promiscuously in some
undifferentiated digital gloop.... it just doesn't appeal to me. Nor
does the thought of my whole music collection becoming deobjectified.
('Dematerialized' isn't an accurate description: mp3's still have a
form of materiality. Or perhaps, as I'll argue below, mp3's involve a
dematerialisation in the Marxist sense.) There's no question that
downloading mp3's without paying for them is stealing. The issue is:
is it an acceptable form of stealing? The comparison with dubbing
albums onto C90's or recording tracks off the radio is bogus, for two
reasons. Firstly, there's the the quality of the 'copy'. A digital
replica far exceeds the reproductive capabilities of magnetic tape.
Strictly speaking, a digital replica is not a copy or a reproduction
at all: it is better to think of it as a reinstantiation, since it is
exactly the same sequence of heroes and ones as the 'original'.
(Nothing could be a clearer exemplar of Baudrillard's point that, in
simulation, there is neither a copy nor an original.) No more
reproduction; only replication. And that leads onto the second point:
the virulence of the replica, or rather of the replication process.
Cassettes of albums are inert; they can't be copied without incurring
further degradation. Digital replicas, meanwhile, especially replicas
housed on a computer connected to a peer-to-peer website, have a
capacity to exponentially propagate. Viracy. For both these reasons,
mp3's constitute a threshold leap in repliculture. Now the
'liberationist' arguments seem to me utterly spurious, redolent of the
facile claims of socalled'dot communists' . It's the contingent fact
that music can be appropriated in digital form that has led to the
practice becoming widespread; people are not, by and large, making any
political gesture by downloading. The idea that it's legitimate, that,
in some sense, it's an obligation to download is predicated on the
surely unsustainable assumption that record companies are Singular
Examples of Evil, unlike any other capitalist corporation. If not, why
aren't people advocating stealing from high street stores or burger
franchises? In fact, as Matt points out, record companies are involved
in a high-risk venture, in which the few successes fund the many
'failures'. It is the mp users, not the record companies, who want
something for nothing. The ultimate question from our POV, I suppose,
is: will it lead to a more exciting, productive music culture? My
answer would be, no. A system of 'trade' which locks producers out of
the circuit altogether can hardly be positive. Apologists for this
seem to be advocating what is in effect a kind of infantile consumer
chauvinism. It is infantile in that it makes an unrealistic demand for
unlimited satiation, and in that it seems to imagine that culture is
produced without labour (as if it is withheld from free distribution
simply from a sense of spite or greed). It is in this sense that mp3's
materialize music: they 'idealize' it into being a product without a
producer, removing all references to labour costs. Rather than being a
development to be celebrated, then, mp culture highlights and
exacerbates one of the most pressing problem with web culture. It is
positive for consumers but negative for cultural producers. The one
big gain for producers is that, in facilitating an unprecedented level
of cost-free distribution, it allows them to bypass what Mark Sinker
calls the 'gatekeepers' of culture publishers, record company
executives. Yet this very ease of distribution is quite obviously also
a problem for producers in that it is decoupled from any possible
financial reward. The means of production are ours, as are the means
of distribution but the means of remuneration remain out of reach.
YES. He does. Here and here . to: My Bloody Valentine, 'Loveless':
driven to rediscover this by Shields interview on Friday, and what a
rediscovery. If anything, it is more arresting, entrancing, enveloping
than ever. anti-climactic drone 'rock': each track a plateau, beyond
tensionrelease. Honeyed wooziness. Bleary clarity. Blurred and lucid.
Fantastic Ruff Squad tape from Luka . Another series of plateaus of a
wholly different kind. I'm the last person in the world to see this,
obviously. Just watched it on video, and was blown away. It's almost
as good as an American film! I've long since learned to dismiss any
recommendation of British films; too many bitter disappointments.
Watching British films is usually like an act of charity. You feel
that you're doing the film a favour. But this is refreshingly lacking
in the vices of the typical Britflick; it's neither worthy
socialistrealism nor some pathetic attempt to court yoof kulcha. The
scenes of deserted, depopulated London are worth the price of
admission themselves. But this has a genuine sense of drama and
excitement and, most surprising of all for a British film, a real
visual imagination. Plus they seem to have innovated a new type of
horror monster: the rage zombie, frenzied rather than lumbering. A
quality British film? Whatever next. Adrian Sherwood/ Asian Dub
Foundation/ The Bug , Queen Elizabeth Hall, Thursday Like longtime
collaborator Mark Stewart, Adrian Sherwood is a reverberation from the
original post-punk soundclash: the mutant offspring of Cold War
apocalypticism, Burroughs/Gysin cut up, JA dub, punk rage and Tommy
Boy hip hop. Sherwood long since entered a parallel universe with its
own rules and protocols. If you no longer look to him for cutting
edging relevance, you can always rely on his old tricks to enchant and
entrance . His set, fronted by MCcumvocalist Ghetto Priest, is full of
his trademarks: hypnotic, loping percussion, sinuous bass, vocal
samples, intermittent washes of reverb. Sherwood has always had the
dub sorcerer's capacity to breathe unlike into recorded sound, to
induce it to crawl out of the speakers. ADF don't quite possess the
same capacity; at least, not on this showing. They are functional but
somehow perfunctory, uncompelling. The dub basslines, the drum and
bass beats, the violin (yes!) and the MCs never add up to more than
the sum of their parts. The Bug, on the other hand, start promisingly.
A punitive blitzscape of pummelling beats is channelled by an MC into
a frenzy which has the audience up on their feet. Yet the effect
quickly palls. The sound becomes an acrid smog, a dull thudding
headache, in which it is well-nigh impossible to distinguish the
individual elements. The MCing, like so much live rap, merely adds to
the porridge, and you start to hunger for some subtelty, some
differentiation. The ultimate effect is disengagement; your nervous
system, sick of the struggle, cuts out. A bad night? Bad sound? Who
knows. Many thanks to the delightful mag of Resonance FM for scoring
me a free ticket. There's was something reassuring about the interview
with Kevin Shields in The Guardian on Friday. Shields is the kind of
'pop star' that it seems died out with an earlier era: visionary,
tempermental, driven, detached from what we are pleased to call
'reality', or rather occupying his own reality and acting as a
conduit, a vessel, through which that alternate reality can invade our
own. 'I live so much in my imagination,' Shields told Paul Lester. 'My
version of reality is so different ... I don't necessarily connect
with things.' Compare amelia (whose new single, incidentally, is very
good),in the Sunday Times last week: I do see myself and my career as
a product, she says. So the image that I give to the public is what I
want them to think of me. Its sort of being like an advertiser: Ive
got a product that I need to market. Jamelia's instrumentalism is not
itself cynical so much as an adjustment to the cynical reality of
kapital. Now Pop is, above all, welladjusted; it doesn't seek to
transfigured the world, offers us no transports of ecstasy or escape.
It's not for nothing that hip hop, with its banal ambitions and dreary
aspirations, its ostensible ultrarealism, is king in Now Pop. Shields'
version of Pop aptly termed Dreampop, once, of course dissents from
this reality, not in the name of unreality or fantasy, but in the name
of libido. Desire can never be persuaded to take the drab world of
Work and Wealth at face value. For libido, that world is an
unconvincing theatre populated by poorly animated puppets and grim
effigies: an existential charade that everyone necessarily occupies
only as Jamelia's comments make clear as impostors, as play actors.
Dreampop has always robbed the World of Necessity of its claim to
ontological precedence over the realm of Desire. Jamelia's
observations show that Now Pop has reversed this prioritization; Pop
is now a colony of the world of Work. The contestation Dreampop
effects has its costs, naturally. To refuse to take the world of
Health and Efficiency seriously is to flirt with illness, anhedonia,
agoraphobia, (living) death. The symptoms of Shields' 'condition'
getting up in the afternoon, if at all, vegetation in front of the
box, doing as little as possible are all too familiar. "I just didn't
do what I didn't want to do. And I got away with it. When you keep on
getting away with it year after year, you think you can just live like
that. And you can. I wouldn't work. I wouldn't get up till late
afternoon. I watched a lot of shit films." I'm sure I'm not the only
one who is glad that Shields is back with us, dreaming for us...
Here's one of my other favourites: 'genial' Gene Colan. colin whose
art has a delirial, woozy, psychedelic quality was the definitive
artist for Dr Strange and Dracula. Just in case you didn't know what
we're talking about, here's some Steranko. See The Art of James
Steranko. From my brother's comics, TV and film collectables site.
More Kirby, cos I love it. Giganticism... Enormous machinery....
Verging on the abstract... Easy to forget the rough and ready way in
which Kirby rendered characters whose image has been smoothed out and
standardized over the years. Kirby was a PULP artist in every respect.
Check the way his Thing looks as if it is only partly formed, as if it
is composed of some amorphous pulpy matter. Another wonderful post
from Nick Gutterbreakz. All kinds of interesting stuff to take up
there, but for now, and since Nick mentions Mighty Marvel this site is
my latest FAVOURITE THING EVER. Monsterblog is devoted to the
preSuperhero monster work of the incomparable Jack Kirby. For those
who don't know, Kirby was the unsurpassable genius responsible for the
first Incredible Hulk and Fantastic Four strips in other words, one of
the greatest visual artists of the twentieth century. Check the way
Kirby almost dispensed with perspective, flattening out everything
onto a Boschlike single plane. Kirby's art was literally awesome: his
habitual mode was the cyclopean, the sublimely vast. He conjured
enormous machinery, cities of dizzying scale, and most of all,
gigantic, lumbering beings, all rendered with an expressionistic
crudity. Monsterblog is a lovingly compiled compendium of Kirby's
early strips, some of them never previously reprinted. The 'meet the
monsters' page is a stunningly well-researched index of all the
monsters, boasting a taxonomy worthy of Borges. 'Alien Conqueror ...
Atomic Freak.... Lab Experiment Gone Wild... Subterranean
Creature....' Could THIS be the origin of the line 'I laughed at the
Great God Pan' from The Fall's 'Leave the Capital' off Slates?
Exactly. Nick Gutterbreakz definitely NOT talking bollocks: 'Remember
when acts like leo and Orbital were taking instrumental techno into
the pop charts in the early '90s? Surely that was the template on
which modern pop should have been based. And when Garage invaded the
charts a few years ago, it seemed to be speaking a new language. So
what happened?Our technology has evolved, but the methods of conveying
ideas and emotions have remained static. Don't get me wrong, I enjoy
Girls Aloud as much as the next man, but there's always that sense of
unease....shouldn't pop have evolved beyond all that by now?' 'If
anything above resonates with you, please let me know...' Well, it
certainly resonates with me. Not wishing to revive the whole
Poptimism/ Popsceptic debate, but many of my reservations about
current Pop revolve around its retreat from any modernist impulse, its
apparent connectedness to reign the same few elements ad infinitum.
Incidentally, I don't have a problem with electronic being used to
perform 'traditional kong-based material'; what I want is a new way of
performing it. The Junior Boys, of course, remain the exemplars of
what can be done to make new combinations of Song and electronica.
What Nick says echoes Simon's remarks on the exhaustion of Dance.
Sometimes I wonder if Pop as such 'beat music' in the widest sense
hasn't reached some kind of terminus. Is it possible for it to produce
whatthefuck affects any more, or must we now be satisfied with
lowintensity reaches forever? The speed of musical development between
1963 and 1982 was incredible and unprecedented. For those of us who
grew up in that period, its mutational acceleration produced a hunger
for the novel, and a sense of dissatisfaction with heroism of any
stripe. As I've often said, in 1979, 1966 was much further away than
it is now. Pop Eppy's Pop 1, hartsop abandoned modernism sometime in
the eighties. What modernist drive it had came from the incursions and
influence of Dance. But if Dance has been Pop's Modernity for the last
two decades, what are we to make of a situation in which Dance has
itself gone postmodern? (cf what Simon says about 'all the period
sounds being juggled and obscure archival sources coming in and out of
favour, [so that] it's at the point of there being a 'record
collection dance' just like there's been 'record collection rock'
since the Jesus & Mary Chain. RetroDance to match Matt's RetroRock
TM.) Where will the impulse for renewal come from, or are we stuck on
a Postmodern (not so)merrygoround? btw I'm intrigued by what Nick
writes about Four Tet and folktronica (it reminded me of Robin's
speculations about a new sampladelia in this by now legendary post; by
pure coincidence, I heard the Four Tet album today. I like it, but it
doesn't really live up to Nick's intriguing description. Or at least,
it doesn't compete with the album that his description inspired me to
imagine. It's partly the problem of beats. There's something tired
about samplebased music which still holds everything together with a
metric beat, especially a generic 'hip hop' beat. Robin's comments on
restlessness make me wonder if losing the beat isn't the most radical
step that could be taken; needless to say, I would have found such a
possibility unthinkable and heretical in the beatplexed ecstasy of 94.
But now, now, the possibilities of escaping 50 years of 'beat music'
are fascinating... I'm pleased Britney's number 1. Just noticed that
the first verse includes the line. 'I need a hit.' A little bit too
close to the bone, that, I should have thought.... BACTERIA IN DUB
will celebrate the launch of luciano Parisi's book 'Abstract Sex:
Biodigital Machines and the Mutations of Desire' (Continuum Press
2004), and the first release on record label Hyperdub, kode & daddy
gee's 'Sign of the Dub'/'Stalker'. BACTERIA IN DUB will feature
extracts from the book, version by kode & daddy gee, accompanied by
video works by Space Ape.BACTERIA IN DUB will occur between 4 and 7pm,
on Saturday the with of March at Plastic People, 147 Curtain Road,
Shoreditch, London E1. (nearest tube Old Street) feel free to transmit
this information to any interested parties for information please
contact l.parisi@uel.ac.uk or kode9@hotmail.com or
stephengordon70@hotmail.com Nick Gutterbreakz with some great new
stuff, including a rundown of neglected synthpop classics. Encouraging
signs. League of Gentlemen's Mark gains (who's writing for the new Dr
Who series) on the good Doctor. 'Russell T Davies said to me the other
day that he worked it out in his head that he's always regarded it as
a science fiction, but what Doctor Who always did best was horror and
I think that's absolutely true. From arctic bases besieged by monsters
to Cybermen on the moon, it's the creeping unknown, it's the shadows
and the hand at the end of the episode; it's all horror.' I echo the
applause for SFJ's New Yorker piece on Arthur Russell. Do yourself a
favour and read this, if you haven't already. Marcello's forensic
dissection of Kenny Everett's World's Worst Record Album Ever and his
own list of the twenty worst singles ever. Pleased to see that the
loathsome Stone Roses make Marcello's worst ever list. And 'Imagine.'
And Deacon Blue. And Robbie, of course, though I'd probably vote for
'Angels' above 'Let Me Entertain You.' Can't concur on Duran Duran,
though I have to confess that 'Is There Something I Should Know?'
wasn't one of their best moments. And you think 'Mysterious Girl' is
bad? Not half as excruciating as 'Flava', I can assure you. I can only
echo Mr Carmody: 'Peter fucking Andre, though. And Chris fucking
Moyles. Fuck every one of you (including the grinning, complacent
apologists on ILM).' Fascinating little parlour game, of course, but
not one I can participate in too confidently; my memory for poor
records is too shortterm. Perhaps thankfully, I manage to freeze them
out of mind until I hear them again. That bloody DJ Caspar single has
got a good shout at the moment, however. And surely 'Sledgehammer'
would have to be in there somewhere.... And something by U2,
naturally, although how does one choose from such an embarrassment of
riches? It would have to be with the video for maximum impact, since
the sight of Bono's smug histrionics reduces all sensitive sentient
creatures to a state of rabid insinuate rage.... What was worse, the
wholesome muscular christian earnest Bono or the 'ironic' polo
version? Who cares. 'Dancing in the Moonlight.' No explanation or
justification required, surely. 'There She Goes', The Las, whose
ghastly, cheery, cheeky, sally bonhomie never fails to put me in a
psychotic fury and black cosmic despair. George Michael/ Wham! More or
less anything. Wham! were culture criminals ushering in the
termination of glam and the rise of the boy band. A tough call as to
whether the Wham atrocities or the ponderously unlistenable, self-
regarding solo singles were worse really. Shooting fish in a barrel,
but pass me the rifle Kylie Minogue, 'Some Kind of Bliss', a record
that actually makes me feel embarrassed to even contemplate the
desperate, flailing begging for credibility it's painful to remember,
isn't it? Big Sound Authority, since Marcello mentioned them a while
ago. Younger readers should note that BSA were perhaps the worst and
most heinous example of Eighties' earnest, big-hearted Soulfulness.
There is no lower or more despicable form of culture. Speaking of
which: the Style Council. Anything and everything. maria Carey. Can't
remember the name of it, that awful single, you know, the one with the
the video where she wore hot pants and was on a motor-racing track. So
tuneless and catchy and rhythmic it was almost avantgarde.
Stupefyingly bad. Big Audio Dynamite. Can't remember the name of their
singles either. But they were all dreadful: that stodgy, clunky
anschluss between rock and 'funk'. Puhleeze. And since we're in this
neck of woods The Clash, 'Should I Stay or Should I Go.' Horrible. The
Streets. Nah, not really, just joking about that last one. I'd opt for
The Darkness, but they're just too mediocre really, aren't they? (That
new single is awfully reminiscent of Big Country in parts,
donchathink?) And if we're going for most mediocre record ever,
Beyonce's 'Me, Myself and I' must have a strong shout. That Usher
single's pretty good, no? Robin Carmody (only) twenty-three shock! I
thought he was, like, forty or something. In the best possible way,
y'hear. On grounds of authoritativeness and knowledge, like. No wonder
Hollywood films are so shit, with scripts this bad. What is more inept
the lame lines they give the actors to read at the ceremony or the
appallingly stiff way in which they perform them? This sappy,
sentimental, self-congratulatory awards show sums up much that's
loathsome about America. Does anyone else want to kick Renee Zelwegger
downstairs? The boy Carmody with lots new stuff including oblique
contributions to the caff wars and tantalising references to what
sounds like a fascinating row at ILM. A little frustrated by not being
able to identify the thread can anybody help?Just been (re)reading
Peter Ackroyd: Hawksmoor and Dan lend and the limehouse Golem.
Hawksmoor was famously inspired by Sinclair's Lud Heat, but is more
digestible than Sinclair, if far from transparent. Ackroyd's
simulation of sixteenth century prose is masterly (not that I'm in a
position to judge, really) and the construction of uncanny
correspondences between the twentieth century and the 1700s is
managed, appropriately enough, with all the skill of an architect. Yet
the book is ultimately impenetrable; one of its key motifs is the
convex mirror, and it is as cold and unyielding as the surface of a
looking glass. It feels, in fact, that the book is like two mirrors
positioned in front of one another, an infinity of reflections with no
original. Time itself the book's chief preoccupation is just such a
system of infernal echoes. 'Truly, Time is a vast denial of Horrours,
round about which a Serpent winds and in the winding bites itself by
the Tail. Now, now is the Hour every Hour, every part of an Hour,
every Moment, which in its end does begin again and never ceases to
end: a beginning continuing, always ending.' (62) Has anyone else read
Hawksmoor? I find it fascinating but feel that I'm missing
something.... Dan lend is much more accessible, a macabre romp through
fog-bound Victorian London, thick with the peasouper atmosphere Robin
evoked so powerfully in this post , taking in music hall, the reading
room at the British Museum (at which Ackroyd places Karl Marx and
George Gissing) and Babbage's Analytical Engine. In its hypertextual
Victoriana and its stalking through the fog-bound streets of
Limehouse, punk would file it somewhere adjacent to The Talons of
WengChiang. In any case, all of this has revived my interest in the
Hawksmoor churches, about which I know very little. I propose a trip
around some of them for our next London logger outing.... That Lyotard
quote (found my copy of LE underneath a pile of stuff): 'Death is not
an alternative to it, it is part of it, it attests to the fact that
there is jouissance in it, the English unemployed did not become
workers to survive, they hang on tight and spit on me enjoyed the
hysterical, masochistic, whatever exhaustion it was of hanging on in
the mines, in the foundries, in the factories, in hell, they enjoyed
it, enjoyed the mad destruction of their organic body which was indeed
imposed upon them, they enjoyed the decomposition of their personal
identity, the identity that the peasant tradition had constructed for
them, enjoyed the dissolution of their familes and villages, and
enjoyed the new monstrous anonymity of their suburbs and the pubs in
the morning and evening.' Libidinal Economy, 111 'She Wants to Move':
I'm not sure what to make of it (which on the whole is, I reckon, a
good thing). I think I'm starting to like it. Am I the only one? '
that's probably the first time Ive felt like Ive been living outside
the UK too long must have that missed the meeting where it was decided
poet a Manger was pure evil...' Miaoww!!! Simon compares the
Undercurrent/kpunk/Stelfox position with MES/ The Fall and yes, well
below the belt, Simon Beautiful South; Nigel Richardson invoked even
worse the dread spectre of the Style Council and their white socks.
How can the procaff lobby bring together such extremes? The Beautiful
South defiantly nonaspirational, conspicuously unglamorous, stickinthe
mud ultralocal and The Style Council upwardly mobile (nothing's too
good for the stylish proleabouttown), cosmopolitan/ internationalist:
I'd always have thought of these two as occupying opposite extremes on
the proletarian pop continuum. btw is inverted snobbery really worse
than actual snobbery, I wonder? From its name on, poet is self-
consciously pushing a bourgeois agenda (and Simon's argument buys into
the unwarranted assumption that poet food is somehow more healthy than
cheap fast food). All of this reminds me of Lyotard in libidinal
Economy, when he speaks out/ up for the artificiality of proletarian
desire. Yes, don't cry for the loss of some authentic, organic
culture: we enjoy our anonymous pubs and crap sausages (I'd quote but
my copy has gone AWOL. Michael?) Has anyone out there got a copy of
Glenn Gould's The Idea of North? I've wanted to hear this for years,
but have never been able to get hold of a copy. One of my favourite
images from detroityes.com . It had nothing to do with me, honest,
officer. ...from the horse's mouth.... Robin dares to ask the
unaskable: what is 'Milkshake' about? Speaking as the 'fellow ingenue'
who had enquired of Robin if had got any more idea than I had, I must
confess to being relieved that there isn't a clear consensus about the
meaning of the obscure practice kells is offering for sale.
Previously, I had the impression that I was the only person who didn't
grasp the double entendre. Now I know that everyone else is as baffled
as me, the need for an explanation seems less pressing. Did people
check out the comments to the Cafe Culture post? The link Kate posted
up to detroitblog is really worth following. Many wonderful posts on
exploring dilapidated Detroit, on wandering through abandoned spaces,
on picking through the remains of occupant's lives and
(re)constructing narratives out of what is discarded and left behind.
It recalls Robin's original post on life as a process of
dilapidation/accretion. What we are as the traces we leave, the hoards
we assemble (which become rubbish, detritus, to be disposed of, once
we die). Death, then, not as a single moment, but as the process of
disassembly and dissolution of the collections and connections we
make. Ccru: The 7+2 Syzygy is carried by the demon Oddubb, whose
associations with superstitious doublings reinforces its twin
character. Fascinating piece here on Pop, Jazz, time and honesty. Phil
distinguishes two distinct sensibilities and temporalities: a 'Jazz'
aesthetic, based upon the faithful reproduction of live performance
and a 'Pop aesthetic', based around an 'eternal Now.' The Jazz
aesthetic is exercised by profound anxieties about fidelity, about
'honesty.' No such worries with Pop. Couldn't we reverse this
relation? Pop's indifference to playing live, its dependence upon
overdue and its predilection for generating sounds that could only
ever exist in the studio, means that,at the point of production, there
is never a Pop 'Now'. Sure, at the point of consumption, Pop is
associated with particular moments (Phil's point about the Now!
compilations demonstrates this beautifully.) By contrast, Jazz is
about a (re)captured Now, about the drama of a performance unfolding
in front of us, in real time. Phil positions Miles' and Teo Macero's
'recordings' of the late i960 and 1970s as a diagonal between the Jazz
and Pop sensibilities. They 'seemed to explicitly deny the existence
of any now, at least as far as the recording process was concerned. He
argued, through his work, that studio albums had no obligation to
replicate real eventsthat they could be elaborate constructs, faithful
only to their own internal logic.' The obvious genius of Miles and
macro notwithstanding, there's a case for saying that their techniques
were not so much ground-breaking as Jazz playing catch-up with Pop a
trading of Jazz's Now for Pop's unlife. Phil characterises Miles and
Macero's stance as being opposed to any 'honesty.' I wonder if
duplicity isn't a better term than 'dishonesty.' Duplicity, as opposed
to fidelity; duplicity, with its (lexical and semantic) connections to
doubling, dubbing. The version is not a dishonest reproduction of the
truth: it articulates a different ontology, in which there is no
present, no presence, no originary unity, but only a time that is
always (at least) doubled. The emphasis on editing, not as a matter of
'tidyingup', anterior to the real process of production, but as the
essential creative act, recalls Stanley Kubrick's claim that the most
crucial aspect of film directing happens in the editing suite. The
opposition between film and theatre doubles the relation between Pop
and Jazz. Kubrick's notorious, seemingly sadistic, tendency to make
actors repeat takes ad nausea didn't arise from perfectionism. On the
contrary, in many ways, since, when he was watching the actors
perform, Kubrick didn't know what he wanted. The real creative process
happened long after the actors, the 'liveware', had departed; Kubrick
didn't want to preempt any decisions he would make then, wanted to
keep open as many options as possible. What Kubrick demanded from
actors was not a unitary performance that could be faithfully
reproduced on celluloid, but a pallet of potentials from which he
could construct the onscreen 'performance', after the fact, in the
editing suite. Kubrick's antihumanist methodology treated actors much
in the way that macro treated sounds, as manipulable traces. The Loaf
is back from NYC.... You won't be surprised to learn that I think that
the highlight of Flum's typically thorough analysis of C4's Ultimate
Pop Star rundown is his evisceration of Robbie. 'Robbie Williams is
not a pop star. He is what a marketing department thinks a pop star
should be. Everything about him is so contrived, so forced, so
unnatural that he ceases to be anything of note.... Robbie represents
all that is wrong about the music industry, and the sooner he finally
has his nervous breakdown and fucks off, the better.' YES, YES, YES
.... of Glasgow is back. Then I look away, too much for one day....
Undercurrent takes issue with kpunk's Helmut Newton post. I think it's
far too quick, all this stuff about the male gaze and Newton. It has
to be remembered that Newton was a fashion photographer and the
primary consumers of his images were women. There's a case for saying
that Newton's photographs were images of women for women. It's begging
too many questions to assume that women's objectifying of themselves,
the cruelties and privations they impose on their bodies, are done for
the sake of men. Worth recalling the original meaning of glamour here:
a spell or witchery dedicated to shrinking the penis. Newton's women
are selfinvolved, narcisisstic, possibly masochistic, seemingly
oblivious to any gaze save their own. Ballard has some apposite
observations on this. 'I will only say that critics who tremble so
fiercely at the thought of the voyeuristic male gaze miss the point
that distance generates mystery and enchantment, and expresses the awe
with which the male imagination regards all women, as we see so
clearly in Newton's photographs. Far from debasing his models (most of
whom are not naked), Newton places them at the heart of a deep and
complex drama where they rule like errant queens, blissfully
indifferent to the few men who dare to approach them.' Swaying palms
at your feet In any case, the real elitism in Newton's images is not
of gender, but of privilege and beauty. He lays down breathes for a
genetic aristocracy, whose magnificence we plebeians can either revere
or resent. Satire: absolutely not. Newton comes to beautify and
canonize, not to mock. He is a courtier dancing attendance upon these
rare, insolently superior creatures, a fatalist constructing
elliptical tales of their strange adventures beyond the pleasure
principle. On the shoe thing: there is an image (which I couldn't
locate) in which Newton takes an ray of a foot in a stiletto. An
almost medical interest, yes.... Final (biographical) note: I first
became interested in Newton because of his photographs of a man (Steve
Strange). Some twat on C4's Ultimate Pop Star, tonight: 'Robbie is the
closest thing we've got to Elvis.' Good God. I don't know about you,
but I can barely stand to watch Robbie. He's almost too perfect an
object of hatred. The arch polo metaprancing, the cocaine gurning, the
fauxprofundity of the lyrics (actually listen to the words of the vile
'Angels', for instance: they are signifiers of meaningfulness that are
in themselves almost total nonsense), the endofthepier
Englandatitsworst 'humour', the tiresome arrogance and posturing
selfhatred. He manages to push ALL my buttons, manages to work me up
into a steaming rage EVERY TIME I see the fuck. Had to get that off my
chest. But, fuck, Adam and the Ants, weren't they brilliant? Great
contribution from Dave telfos to the great caff debate. Dave's point
about the standardization of desire and aspiration is absolutely
right. And he's correct to highlight the class dimension: McDonalds
and Burger King might be blandly homogenizing, but, at least, unlike
poet and Starbucks, they're not hawking a bourgeois agenda with their
rocket and strawberry mocha. (Incidentally, I'm sure I heard somewhere
that poet sandwiches in are as unhealthy as McDonalds' cheeseburgers.)
starbuck is like the Waterstones of coffee, its insufferable graduate
brasseratis as haughtily superior as the Waterstones' wannabe Cecil
Day Lewis's. Went to see the 1936 adaptation of Wells'Things to Come
at Tate Modern this afternoon. Wells evidently saw Things to Come as
the modernist antidote to Metropolis' antiscience dystopia. It comes
off as a hymn to Progress in which humanity's saviours are a masonic
cooperative of scientists, mechanics and engineers; their enlightened
rationality will deliver humanity from the brigands and warlords who
thrive upon conflict. Parts of the film were very much on the
ruinationalist theme: Wells' vision of a thirty year war starting in
1940 included a Blitzlike destruction of everton (London). The sets
especially the targetted city and the reconstructed metropolis of 2036
were astonishing feats of design. Question: why is this inspiring
whereas today's cinematic gigantism is so depressing and flat? I
think, it's because today's digital blockbusters are solely about
Spectacle as opposed to Vision. Wells' vision was no doubt troubling
and flawed, but it gave the film something for which no amount of
pixelcrunching can substitute. 'I found the Palace of Green Porcelain,
when we approached it about noon, deserted and falling into ruin. Only
ragged vestiges of glass remained in the windows, and great sheets of
the green facing had fallen away from the corroded metallic framework.
It lay very high upon a turf down, and looking north-eastwards I
entered it, I was surprised to see a large estuary, or even creek,
where I judged Wandsworth and Battersea must once have been. I thought
then though I never followed up the thought of what might have
happened or might be happening to the living things in the sea. ...
Clearly we were in the ruins of some latterday South Kensington!' Ha!
Angus and I cited amongst such luminaries as Christgau, Simon and sfa
in this post on rock critics daily surveying the many and various uses
of the term 'rockism'. Junior Boys' producer Matt didymus email with
news of another site delighting in dilapidation: abandonedplaces.com.
1. Virginia Astley's From Gardens Where We Feel Secure . Bought this
on Marcello's fine recommendation . See also Pete's enthusing at It's
All in Your Mind. Astley's is a kind of semiruined pastoral, a bucolic
summerhazed delirium shadowed by mumbling disquiet, in which
mechanicallyiterated found sounds are put into concert with an oneiric
chamber music. Regular punk readers will be delighted to know that
this album began as a series of demos produced by none other than John
Foxx. 2. Gavin Bryars' The Sinking of the Titanic . Bryars' uses the
hymn , 'Autumn' which was reputedly played as the Titanic sank, as the
basis for this epic meditation on disaster and inundation. 'My initial
speculations centred, therefore, on what happens to music as it is
played in water. On a purely physical level, of course, it simply
stops since the strings would fail to produce much of a sound (it was
a string sextet that played at the end, since the two pianists with
the band had no instruments available on the Boat Deck). On a poetic
level, however, the music, once generated in water, would continue to
reverberate for long periods of time in the more soundefficient medium
of water and the music would descend with the ship to the ocean bed
and remain there, repeating over and over until the ship returns to
the surface and the sounds reemerge.' It's more to do with the
paradoxes of steampunk or cybergothic ('skyscrapers overshadowing
seventeenth-century graveyards') than nostalgia. Something to do with
capitalism starting here, the strange temporal anomalies and
retrofuturisms it imposes. Just a few connections, really. Much to
take up in Simon's contribution to the ruinationalist discussion, but
these remarks on boredom leapt out after reading Burchill's essay on
Graham Greene ('Greeneland') yesterday. Simon: 'went through a phase
recently of feeling nostalgic for boredom, the kind you felt as a
suburban child in the uk in the is the utter sense of privation
experienced on a Sunday around 6 PM when it was just religious
programmes... the dearth of stimuli... tv used to go off in the
afternoons, there was just a testcard... no night time tv... no web,
none of the surfeit distractions kids today have... it was almost
spiritual, the sense of oppression weighing on the soul, nothing to
relieve the tedium... it was enriching in the sense that you were
forced to develop an imagination to survive it)' Burchill, from
'Greeneland': 'All sensitive adolescents, capable of so much yet
powerless to effect any real change in their lives, feel boredom more
strongly than any other emotion, but it is something they break out of
when they break into the big world a benign boredom, a skin that can
be shed and kept dead. Greene's boredom was a rare strain a malignant
boredom that I believe he cultivated as an elegant escape from the
ultimate horror to the sensitive young heartiness, bearing down on him
mercilessly in the shape of robust, public school, Anglican normality.
"I was seventeen and terribly bored and in love with my sister's
governess one of those miserable, romantic loves of adolescence that
set in many minds the idea that love and despair are inextricable and
that successful love hardly deserves the name. At that age one may
fall irrevocably in love with failure, and success of any kind loses
half the savour before it is experienced.' (The Lost Childhood)."'
Simon also says that 'obviously starbuck or Burger King or whatever
could be seen as corresponding to Global UberPop Brands like whitney
or Justin T... reliable pleasure lacking any local character, pure
product, homogenizing, Americanizing etc etc ' This closely parallels
what Ratz, one of Momus' correspondents says about 'uberculture':
'Uberculture is the pervasive culture that is shared by both mass
culture and counter/subculture. Kind of the same idea as pop culture,
but more mundane. Think of coca cola. Everybody drinks coca cola. The
president, the gutterpunk, and the businessman. Andy Warhol once wrote
about America being so equal because of its products. If the queen of
England went to a baseball game at Yankee Stadium, she couldn't get a
hot dog that was any better than the one the guy in the ten dollar
seats can get. You also can't, no matter how much money you spend, get
a better coke than the one the bum on the street spent fifty cents
for.' And that in turn reminded me of something Robin wrote about the
'autocollapse of any trade which did not seek to expand its market
universally, ie catered to the gentry' and the decline of the luxury
brand. 'In truth there are no 'luxury brands' if there were, they
wouldn't really be 'brands' in the sense we understand the word. The
idea of a luxury brand is a contradiction, it aspires to be something
it can only ever recreate as a simulacra, and dishonestly, because of
its inherent aspiration to universality. (This is little more than an
extrapolation from Nietzsche of course. And as good liberals warn us,
we pursue it at our peril. But let's pursue it anyway).' This makes me
think that there is something aristocratic in the taste for decline
and ruin: the resistance to Uberculture is in every sense an objection
to levelling, to democratization. Course as Mark Sinker points out in
the comments to the Ruins photopoint below, as far back as the f7c it
became fashionable for gentlemen to CONSTRUCT ruins . The image at the
head of the Ruinationalism post was actually Robert Adam's (c.1759)
Design for an Artificial Ruin in the Park at Kiddleston. As for the
music parallels to ruinationalism, I obviously baulk at the suggestion
that its sonic equivalent is Britpop. That's because ruinationalism is
not straightforwardly nostalgic in the way that briton was: it doesn't
seek to pretend that the past is still in place, that we can relive
it. No: ruinationalists don't want to revive, they precisely glory in
the current state of dilapidation (the dilapidation that is the
present). As for the contradictions with the taste for Futurism in
music, well, Science Fiction has a real taste for the ruined. The
overgrown city. That's part of what's always appealed to me about John
Foxx. Check out his story 'The Quiet Man' (a beautiful exploration of
the overgrown city meme: 'At the bottom of Oxford Street stood the
tall Centrepoint tower, its remaining upper windows glinting, while
most of the base was covered in vines, mileaminute vine especially had
grown out from many of the gardens, and living up to its name , had
swamped quite a number of roads and buildings in the city') and his
photographs of overgrown statues (some of which I've reproduced here).
cf also Justin Barton's 'Future Terrains' which imagines a
'wildization' of the British landscape. 'Much of Northumberland is now
woodland; there is forest all the way from the west of Buckinghamshire
to the Severn river.' Perhaps the greatest sonic parallel is the
imagined 'mechanical uncanny' music Robin dreams up, inspired by
fairground music, faded recordings of folk tunes, and St Etienne. Of
the latter's forbade Alpha Robin writes memorably: 'Anglophile dub,
endlessly expanding cotton mists of reverb suddenly blossoming into
starchy medley of peculiar pop. Recited inventories of tube stops,
BBCaccented voices echoing through sooty underground tunnels. Theres
something special in this album that I never found with any of their
later material, not only in its appealing enthusiasticamateur sonic
constructions but also the sense of the groups groping, in a bleary
haze of PG Tips, woodbines and wednesday afternoon TV black and
whites, to articulate the halfimagined lost world, merrie england
manqu.' On this Ruinationalist tip listening to: Peter Hamill / Public
Image CDR burned for me by Simon deviant Englishness On Land Eno this
beguiled more with every listen an ominous, mournful psychogeography
Eno's sleevenotes: 'What qualified a place for inclusion on this
record was that it took me somewhere, but this might be somewhere that
I'd never been before, or somewhere that I'd only imagined going to.
Lantern Marsh, for example, is a place only a few miles away from
where I grew up in East Anglia, but my experience of it derives not
from having visited it (although I almost certainly did) but from
having subsequently seen it on a map and imagining where and what it
might be. We feel affinities not only with the past, but also with
futures that didn't materialise, and with other versions of the
present that we suspect run parallel to the one we have agreed to live
on.' Have to echo Jim's fulminations against Phil Jupitus. I was gonna
post on this but I couldn't be bothered, Jim's spurred me into action.
Jupitus' TOTP 2 selections this week have been, without fail,
tediously canonic, irritatingly so. Everything you'd expect: Costello,
The Smiths, Madness, ska, feel free to yawn. And he had nothing of any
interest to say about any of it, it'll surprise you to know. What
exactly is the point of Jupitus? He's the embodiment of a solid,
stolid students reality principle, Brit middlebrook occult mediocrity
personified. I heard him described as 'Britain's best comedian.'
Imagine if he was.... Just spotted this by the great Tim Finney on the
Junior Boys' thread at ILX: 'It's too tempting to look at Junior Boys
and see the stylistic equation (and either be over-excited or
suspicious of that) rather than the group themselves. ie. it's almost
too fitting that punk is their biggest cheerleader because they're
like the total (mathematical) solution to his problems with the
current pop landscape. The tendency is understandable but it can get
in the way of whether the music is actually really good or not (I
think it is).' Point taken, but kpunk's enthusiasm for the Jbeez, I
hope it need not be stressed, is based on the sensual seductions of
the sound, not on the fact that it fits some preexisting theoretical
shopping list. On the contrary. Like most everything I love, I didn't
know I wanted them until they arrived. "Seediness has a very deep
appeal ... It seems to satisfy, temporarily, the sense of nostalgia
for something lost." Graham Greene (that's the quote you were thinking
of Simon, I reckon) Hmm rottenness wasn't Johnny Rotten famously a
Greene fan? Rotten dentistry British teeth.... Also cf Julie
Burchill's magisterial essay on Greene, 'Greeneland' Robin comes back
on ruinationalism...... I think this can be opposed to what I once
called contaminationalism. Ruinationalism (which dates back at least
as far as the Romantic poets skulking around decaying churchyards and
lurking amidst architectural wreckage) celebrates the sublime
pleasures of the discarded, the composted, the superseded and the
inutile. Contaminationalism, on the other hand, articulates a cultural
politics of purity and hygiene, forever seeking to clean up,
rationalize.... I have to echo Robin's dismissal of Simon's comment
because: (a) food isn't the main point any way far more important is
what Oliver stresses, the possibility of an enclave. poet a Manger
staffed by alienated labour wageslaves has reduced the eating place to
a drab functionalism. You don't really feel like sitting and reading,
the stainless steel decor repels any desire to linger or spread out.
(b) the food isn't uniformly bad in any case. In his Classic Cafes
interview, Sinclair makes a point of stressing that food is crucial to
his appreciation of the caff experience. One thing that is manifestly
true is that it is only in cuffs that you can find a decent cup of tea
or a cappuccino. Surely we can all agree that starbuck coffee in any
of its forms is revolting. Noone goes into starbuck for the coffee,
surely. Give me a greasy Italian cafe with an old maggie any day. As
for tea, it's a lost art. Robin, again: 'note to the new brasserati:
if I wanted to drunk a teabag on a string in a cup, Id have stayed at
home. GET AN URN, wanker. And oh for a world when you could just say a
cup of tea without having to specify invariable coordinates to locate
the desired teatime on the abstract phasediagram of baroque herbal
infusions.' This by modus is good on a number of things: the
exhaustion of the concept of youth, the notion of metaphor (which is
poised somewhere between Eppy's Pop II and Pop III, it would seem),
and the Orientalist majesty of the new whitney (it would make a great
007 theme, as M rightly points out). Yeh: 'Toxic' is by far and away
the best Pop single of the year so far. A few connections between
recent (or fairly recent) postings. Luka posts a link to
DerelictLondon.com. Robin has a link to Classic Cafes.co.uk . What is
it in us that cleaves to the derelict, the deserted, and the
dilapidated? It's a very English thing. 'This is where England most
truly excels,' notes Adrian Maddox, the proprietor of Classic
Cafes.co.uk in his essaycumcompendium piece, Britannia moribund , 'in
all the characterful shabbiness of its drizzle parks, soiled
launderettes, frayed tailors, abject chemists, sparse barbers, bare
foyers, dun pubs, weary Legion halls... and cowed solitary cafes.' For
Julie Burchill, whose Guardian piece on Eastbourne is cited in
'Britannia Moribundia', decline is a cultural weapon against the
encroaching, homogenizing pressures of Amerikana. Eastbourne is a
place 'where the American takeover seems never to have happened.'
Burchill also makes another telling observation. 'Being in Eastbourne
was in many ways stranger, more foreign than being abroad particularly
the Caribbean, which in its more profitable enclaves can feel like
lodging in a luxury franchise of America.' Actually, this reminds me
of one of Momus' questions, posed semirhetorically in connection with
'Lost in Translation': "[I]s it possible to be American and foreign? I
suspect the answer is 'No.'" If America is turning the whole world
into its living room, we're all become accustomed to equating
homeliness with Americanness. This homeliness is precisely opposed to
any sense of locality. Locality is fraught with anxiety: step into
someone's local and you run the risk of being stared at. Step into a
starbuck and you know exactly what you're getting. You enter a
routinized, highly predictable environment, impersonal and anonymous,
where you won't be noticed. The dubious appeal of these franchises is
their easy familiarity: no need to learn the idiolect of consumption,
no need to read the specials board. No unpleasant surprises or strange
conversations. The centripetal pull of franchises is immense. I
remember walking through central London one Sunday afternoon with
Robin and actively trying to avoid going into a franchise coffee bar.
You have to walk miles to avoid them. But my impression is that the
provinces have been much worse hit by creeping franchization than has
London. At least London is variegated enough to have a seedy
underbelly of greasy spoons (as celebrated in Classic Cafes). I'm
betting that there is very little alternative to franchises in the
average provincial town now. Maddox is surely right. Caffs, with their
vernacular architecture, are a part of British culture that is being
allowed to be eliminated with scarcely any resistance. And the best
thing is, this appeal to British culture doesn't conceal some
reactionary agenda to do with anglo-saxon purity. cuffs are examples
of immigrant culture, hotchpotch assemblages, defiantly nonorganic,
racially mixed. Dilapidation, derelict London, we love to wander in
these little Stalkerlike scurf zones of underdevelopment, to escape
the crushing sense of Now. Aspiration, hygiene, focus: we want
somewhere to flee from this america of the soul. Dereliction of duty.
Robin, I think, puts his finger on the nature of this 'nostalgia' when
writing in a slightly different connection. 'Its not so much a
nostalgia as in a longing to return, as an enjoyment of the texture of
loss, decay, and imperfect preservation...' That is to say, we don't
hunger for the time when these caffs, these ruins and rustheaps, were
shinynew. We savour their decay, the gentle rot. More on this soon.
Followed a link from Momus' compendium site to this fascinating thread
on Nabokov's Pale Fire as a precursor of hypertext (and hence also of
blogs). Pale Fire is one of my favourite novels, and, for those who
haven't read it, its an hilarious, hysterical book, less a
conventional narrative than a kind of beguiling textual labyrinth. The
entire book poses as a scholarly reading of a poem, 'Pale Fire', by
the fictional American poet, John Shade. (The poem is presented in its
entirety, preceded by a foreword, and succeeded by a lengthy
commentary and index.) The commentator is one Charles Kinbote (who may
or may not also be a Russian called Botkin). Kinbote's 'reading' of
Shade's poem is a kind of delirium appropriation: he insists that
'Pale Fire' is in fact an allegory about none other than Kinbote
himself. Even more fantastically, Kinbote claims that he is the exiled
monarch of a kingdom called Zembla. The novel leaves the reader in a
state of profound ontological suspension, unable to decide which of
the incommensurate, forking reality options it presents is the most
genuine. In Postmodernist Fiction, Brian McHale identifies 'four
distinct hypotheses' that can be entertained about Pale Fire: 1 that
Kinbote ... is telling the truth and nothing but the truth: John
Shade's poem 'Pale Fire' really is an allusive and heavily camouflaged
biography of Kinbote himself, who is secretly none other than Charles
the Beloved, exiled King of Zembla. 2 that Kinbote really is the
exiled King of zambia ... but that he is deluded in believing that
Shade's poem in any way reflects the events of his own life. 3 that
Kinbote is really a Russian emigre academic named Botkin, the whole of
the King of Zembla's adventures, possibly the very Kingdom of zambia
itself, having been hallucinate by Botkin. ...4 that everything zambia
and its king, John Shade and his poem have been concocted by someone
else who is neither Shade nor Kinbote/Botkin. By whom, then? Well, by
Vladimir Nabokov at one level, it goes without saying, but ought we
perhaps to reconstruct some intermediary who stands between the
biographical Nabokov and the substance of Pale Fire, or is there
insufficient warrant for this? Nabokov's genius lies in keeping all
four of these options alive. Kinbote is a classic unreliable narrator
whose account Nabokov subtly undercuts but never fully undermines. The
gaps and ludicrous rationalizations in Kinbote's account are enough to
radically question his credibility (there are some wonderful scenes in
which it is clear to the readers, if not to Kinbote himself, that
Shade is exasperated by him to the point of white-hot rage). What's
interesting about the take on Nabokov in Designobserver is that it
tries to see Pale Fire as a work of design. The author has trouble
elaborating upon precisely what he means by this, but my take on it
would be that Pale Fire is a kind of Escheresque puzzle . (McHale
draws upon Douglas Hofstadters Godel, Escher, Bach, which makes
connections between the abstract machines at work in mathematics, art
and music). Like any puzzle, the fascination lies in its construction.
As for the connections with hypertext, Im less convinced. I'm a little
suspicious of attempts to find the 'roots' of hypertext in the print
medium. Such exercises end up presupposing a continuity when it is
almost certainly more productive to look for breaks. Hypertext becomes
embedded into a lineage going back at least as far as Sterne's
Tristram Shandy. Yet this ignores the form of the reading matter
itself. While certain books may gesture towards rhizomatic
connectivity, the physical form of the book imposes a certain
linearity on the reading experience. Hypertext  or better,
hyperlinking  has no such limitations. With the internet, the very
notion of a hypertext, a hypertext object, quickly becomes
unsustainable. Rather than being addenda to a freestanding texts,
links constitute a flexing technology which dont so much absorb and
integrate outside texts so much as they erase the boundaries between
one text and another. There is nothing inside the text. Any text is a
series of outsides. hyperfine fiction remains something that I suspect
is massively underdeveloped. There are enormous opportunities to
genuinely move beyond linearity in narrative and structure. I should
add that Im by no means an expert. Ive only dipped my toe into this
area, ( Geoff Ryman's 253 is one of the most celebrated examples of a
hyperfine fiction, and one of the most successful Ive encountered).The
chief problem with hyperfine fiction is the delivery system. The book
is actually an extremely well-designed technology: easily portable and
accessible. Reading off a screen, by contrast, is frustrating and
cumbersome (though its something us loggers are getting increasingly
used to, I suppose, and something that broadband is making a less
pressured experience). flu is typically meticulous in his blow-by-blow
analysis of the Brits. (Puts my sorry effort to shame for sure.) Lay
off Dido, though.... There's a nice quote on the Junior Boys cited by
Jim . (Why aren't there any permalinks on your site, Jim, or is it me
being inept?) "The J.B.s carry a torch for Arthur Russell in their
sound, dreamy stoner vocals, washes of coloured sound and a joyful
melancholy." Arthur Russell, there's another 'weak' voice. More
please... Why Mirror? Some things one approaches with such a sense of
temerity that it is almost impossible to write about them. I almost
don't want to. I certainly can't get even close to doing the film
justice. What words could? Stream of consciousness? Stream of
unconsciousness, more like. Mirror: it's certainly not a film that can
be appreciated on first viewing. The conscious mind's yakketyyak, its
irritable demands for narrative coherence, are too insistent. It is
silenced and becalmed only in subsequent viewings, when the
unconscious becomes attuned to a consistency that lies beyond
narrative sequence. Tarkovsky is never easy, but there's enough of a
narrative premise in Solaris and Stalker to make them more immediately
palatable than the seemingly inaccessible Mirror. At first glance,
Mirror appears to be as smoothly impenetrable as the glass surface to
which its title alludes. It reflects back to us our own confusions and
frustrations. Tarkovsky is never easy... Well, that's not quite true.
He always said that children understood his films. Watching Mirror can
be easy as breathing, as easy as dreaming. But, yes, breathing and
dreaming can be hard. We need to catch the rhythm. Tarkovsky invites
us to see again (with a refreshed gaze, with a child's eyes) the
simple but profound power, the wonder, of fire, water, wind. Why are
the lingering shots of wind passing through the trees so poignant, so
desperately moving? Because Tarkovsky's vision is of an immanent,
impersonal, Spinozistic God, where God=Nature. Tarkovsky's
spirituality is profoundly alien to the west's dualism: it is earthly,
earthy, as cool and clear and material as the water his camera spends
so long dwelling upon. What is Mirror's logic? A logic of association,
the logic of memory and the logic of dreams, a logic of doubling and
correspondences. The same actress plays Alexei's mother and his wife
suggesting what? Our compulsion to repeat, our tendency to see
sameness where there is difference our lives are themselves mirrors
(what are memories if not reflections?) Sorry Andrei, sorry Luka, I
repeat, I can't even begin to do Mirror justice. Too tired, too late,
too inadequate. OK, I'm a sucker for these things... Praise be: for
the complete absence of Robbie Williams. Black Eyed Peas and Fifty
Cent prove once again the timeless and excetionless truth: live rap is
never good. And I'm sure I've said this before, but why have rap and r
and b bands got such shit drummers? The Beyonce/ outcast
'collaboration' it was 'Hey Ya' followed by 'Crazy In Love' what
exactly was the collaborative element? And did you check Beyonce's
eyes? Remember that bit at the end of the stopford Wives where
Katharine Ross comes face to face with her android replacement? The
android's eyes are cold, black, expressionless obsidian. That was
beyond tonight. 'White Flag' wins best single. Hurray! Has anyone
heard the zimbalan remix? The Darkness I don't know about you, but I
was backing Busted all the way whenever they went head to head with
The Darkness in any category. At least Busted have a hormonal
effervescence and irrepressible sponginess that's genuinely teenage.
The Darkness: it's all a bit desperate isn't it? People need them to
be massive, and, before anything even happened this evening, all and
sundry were declaring it was 'their night'. Hopes and expectations
have made it far too easy for them. In many ways, The Darkness are the
inheritors of Robbie's crown: like Robbie, they're simultaneously
fauxselfdeprecating and unbearably conceited, even if their arrogance
has a tired, warmed over quality, undercut by their limp camp
tomfoolery. If Robbie is the leering endofthepier jester, The Darkness
are pantomime dames, sending up rather than celebrating excess and
pomp. They fit a specification that the British public seem to insist
upon for their megastars: peddling a drearily disintensified notion of
'Entertainment' that is all about projecting a Spectacle whilst not
taking themselves too seriously, nudge nudge wink wink, it's all a
lark innit. There's a Robin Askwith, speedily small quality about the
Darkness. The Queen comparison is surely bogus; is Queen were a
titanic, streamlined behemoth. The Darkness' sound is pathetically
weedy, ersatz, provincial. And I hate his postgraduate physics student
receding hairline. And the way he sings 'ff' instead of 'th.' Duran
Duran, though they rocked. Blew everyone else offstage IMHO.
Tarkovsky's Mirror is another masterpiece of slowtime. Jim is
completely right. Robin speculates: 'I wonder whether the frustrating
difficulty I'm having getting a reasonably-priced did of 'Sapphire and
Steel' on eBay, is connected with kpunk's recent championing of the
serial. It would be nice to think so.' Yeh, it would. But I doubt it.
Received the Junior Boys' 'High Come Down' ep and a preview copy of
the LP 'Last Exit', courtesy of electrokin's Nick Kilroy. And they're
a real disappointment... Just kidding of course. 'Last Exit' is every
bit the immaculate masterpiece we've all been expecting. All the hits
are here 'High Come Down', 'Birthday', 'Last Exit' and I defy you to
find another LP that will come out this year that contains so many
seductive hooks. There's not one track that won't insinuate its way
into your nervous system. Each Junior Boys' track has the latenight,
electricity intimacy of an Edward Hopper vignette. The jeez at the
moment are masters of what epps has called Pop 2. Or almost: for Eppy,
Pop 2 tends to run 'at least 1015 years behind what's actually popular
at the time' but, while there can be no doubt that the Junior Boys'
return to the eighties synthpop template, noone could seriously
mistake any of the tracks on 'Last Exit' for anything actually
produced in the eighties. That's because, for all their debts to
synthpop and old stool Timbaland/ step rhythmic tricksiness, central
to the Junior Boys' sensibility is a taste for a certain strain in
MOR. Where MOR at its most asinine and mediocre simply retreats into
Pop classicism, disdaining new technology and technology for trad
instrumentation, the Junior Boys recall the experimental,
electronicsfriendly uneasy listening of the likes of Steely Dan, the
Blue Nile and Hall and Oates. So with a fair wind following, there's
no reason at all why the Junior Boys shouldn't cross over into Pop 1.
It's true that Pop 1 just now is especially hostile to everything the
Junior Boys swoon for. The Junior Boys highlight everything that's
wrong with Now Pop's ideology of Strength. The dominant hip hopderived
R and B sound has room only for powerful women and tough men. It tends
towards the anthemic, the bombastic and the fullon: there's no space
for space, for the shivers, whispers, and breaths that are the Junior
Boys' stockintrade. 'It seems I disappear,' Jeremy sings on 'When I'm
Not Around', in what amounts to a declaration of intent. Compare
Jeremy's anaemic, blurry vocals to the dull focus of the generic Pop
Idol 'strong' voice. Yet why not hope for a change in appetite, why
not hope that vulnerability, doubt, languor, even feyness, might find
a mass market once again? Really enjoying House at World's End . For
some stupid reason, this is not a blow I've checked regularly until
recently, but Robin's impressively knowledgeable riffs on Englishness,
politics and pop culture are really models of what you can do with a
blog. Themes and motifs interleaved and recur, circling around each
other, acquiring new associations with each repetition. But I'm sure
you all already know that. Following Tom's recommendation, I'm really
rather enjoying Talent in a Previous Life . I have to appreciate the
disturbing perversity of its obsession with Girls Aloud's Nicola (yes
the ginger) and its forensically meticulous sift through C4's lazy and
derisory 100 Worst Singles Ever. (Although I can't for the life of me
understand why they go along with the bizarre notion that Cher's
Believe was a poor record). YES. Couldn't agree more with Simon. 98's
'Are You That Somebody' (beautifully evoked by sfa in his not piece)
was Timbaland's peak moment for me, too: a swooning heartbreaking
allyah vocal, a gorgeously lovelorn lyric, that foundsound babycrying
looped sample (like some displaced fragment from Lee Perry's
schizoverse), and zimbalan at his most impishly inventive and
rhythmically innovative, pulling the rug from under your feet while
keeping you dancing. I remember thinking, this is it, this is
definitely as good a Pop record as has ever been released. What you
could hear were possibilities, whole new vistas opening up, Pop (and
with it, life) being renewed. That's precisely what I'm missing from
zimbalan (and Pop) now. Timbaland's undoubted competence today cannon
but sound infinitely inferior to the giddy thrill of discovery on
those 97 and 98 tunes. (Another moment of casual incandescence:
Ginuwine's 'Same Ol' G', almost thrown away on the Dr Dolittle OST).
They were more than 'good records', which is what we're invited to
settle for now, they were new ways of hearing, new ways of perceiving,
of being affected. It's because Pop is more than music that 'good
records' shouldn't ever be enough. Worth noting that SFJ's analysis
reinforces the point I've made here about hip hop's hegemonic spread.
'Over the last decade, hip-hop has become that common tongue for
global pop, and what we might call Timbatunes are establishing how
that language is spoken right now.' sfa is being celebratory,
triumphalist even, yet there's obviously another way of reacting to
this duopolization. Becoming 'the default moves for much of pop music'
is a mixed blessing at best. The fact that 'the Rolling Stones hired
the neptune to do a remixed version of ''Sympathy for the Devil"'
might be 'an indication that something or someone is not going away'
yet it's also, inevitably, an indication of total incorporation. That
wouldn't matter in itself one shouldn't despise success in the name of
some hipsters outsidercred or elitist exclusivist yet this level of
acceptance is almost always a sign that an artist has ceased their
process of becoming, of selfovercoming. They're no longer intense, in
tension; everything is resolved, recycled, recognisable. 'A procedural
machine stamping out hollow glossencapsulated placebos', as Robin put
it. The remarks Simon quotes from zimbalan scream out weariness and
ennui. He certainly don't sound like no poptimist. zimbalan sounds
like Kurtz at the end of Apocalypse Now: he's waiting, wanting someone
to kill him off. That's what we need, something to reset the defaults
. He's clutching at straws with his appeal to country and rock, they
are themselves default fallback options, solid blue chip stocks in a
time of uncertainty. The assassins won't come from that direction.
They'll come from somewhere unexpected. They always do. (Glad, though,
to see that TWO of kpunk's highlights of 03 [the hypercaucasian coldly
and Dido] receive the zimbalan seal of approval. Pleased also that sfa
appreciates Dido's 'White Flag.') epps produces a typology of Pop(s).
'The concept of retrofuture and parallel has always interested me
since being subjected to black and white sci-fi movies as a child.
"Quatermass" and "The Robot Monster", added to "Un chief Andalou" etc.
from the Art end. Plus being mentally warped by a diet of American B
Movies from a very early age in Lancashire. Seeing this stuff without
understanding any of it, you begin to make up your own stories and
connections, which are much stranger than the original intentions.
Also these become incorporated into your personal dream grammar. It's
an equally wonderful and terrifying cinematic
/hallucinogenic/schitzoprenic early neural programming. David Lynch is
someone else who dips into the same image bank. So are Gilbert and
George. So is Robert Wilson, so is Alain Resnais. So are Kraftwerk.'
robot makes a school D/ dizzy Ras parallel but punk was there first. I
got called a 'turbodouche' in the comments to this post at clap clap
blog. Can anyone enlighten me on what this means? Should I be
consulting my lawyers? (A present from Robin Undercurrent) The death
of the playboy photographer in a car crash. Its almost too perfect,
something Ballard could have dreamt up, appropriately enough, since he
has been writing Newtons photographs for the last thirty years, just
as Newton has been photographing Ballards fictions. They conjoint most
explicitly in Cronenbergs version of Crash , which, for Iain Sinclair,
is flick book Newton, an actualization of the narrative implicit in
Newtons images. Newton and Ballard, twin celibate machine begetter of
all neuromancers. Impossible not to hear the hedonic neurasthenic
party of For Your Pleasure, for instance, as Newtonian through and
through (and that cover image is pure Newton). Ferry, entranced and
enraptured by those posed and poised devaux statues, those
unravishable beauty queens, appreciates what Newtons every image
announces, and he bequeathed the lesson to all his successors
(Sylvian, Strange): true glamour is aristocratic. Cruel and
Nietzschean. Inevitable that Visage should turn to Newton for the
cover images to The Damned Dont Cry and The Anvil. Its always part-
time for neuromancers, even if enjoyment is usually fastidiously
declined, since what matters is the ostentatious consumption of
leisure time. Peter York compared the New Romantics to their
contemporaries, the Thatcherite Tories, but, in truth, the New(tonian)
Romantics eschew neoconversativism just as utterly as they reject
socialism and sixties egalitarianism. They project a universe of Art,
not work: life as an aesthetic project, way too studiedly languid for
newton business. An endless photo opportunity. The Damned Dont Cry.
What a perfectly Newtonian title that is. No tears for these hyper
rich kids, only carefully cultivated psychopathologies. Ballard: In
Newton's work we see a new race of urban beings, living on a new human
frontier, where all passion is spent and all ambition long satisfied,
where the deepest emotions seem to be relocating themselves, moving
into a terrain more mysterious than Marienbad. Newton treated women
like objects, obviously. Yet his logic is pursued to such a point of
perversity that it is would be churlish and gauche to impose obsolete
sexual political moralists onto his work, in part because in really
treating women as objects, he desubjectifies them to the extent that
these physically striking women positioned in such a way that they are
divorced from the bodies they display with such flagrant interest
(Sinclair) are no longer sexual. Ballard again: Newton desexualizes
his subject matter. His photographs drain the libido from the once
charged spaces of the late with Century, from hotel bedrooms and
luxury bathrooms, and from those penthouse apartments where unmatched
porn films play behind the heads of people with more pressing concerns
than pleasure or pain. Yes, his bodies are far beyond the pleasure
principle, indifferent to pain, but is it quite right to claim that
Newton drains the libido from the environment? Wouldnt it be more
accurate to say that, rather like the Ballard of The Atrocity
exhibition and Crash, in fact, Newton evacuated the organic body of
libido only to distribute it across the surrounding spaces? If the
bodies themselves cease to be the exclusive site of allure, then the
accoutrements (the sticks, the calipers, the silk, the nylon, the
mahogany) become intensely eroticized. O God please let me die beneath
her heels. Newton doesnt doubt for a moment that eroticism is
profoundly unnatural. Bodies acquire what charge they have only from
becoming elegantly contorted into the most excruciating postures .The
foot in heels: Newton takes an almost medical interest in the savage
twisting of bone. The punishment of luxury. The Lucid Dreamer, J.G.
Ballard Crash, Iain Sinclair to 23 skid 'The Culling is Coming'. A
collection of some astonishingly disquieting and unnervingly
compelling (un)live performances from 1982. Closer to neubauer or
Cabaret Voltaire than to the dark funk of 'Seven Songs'. Tape loops,
bells, metalpercussion, illegible vocal refrains, yells becoming lost
in a radioactive fog of echoes: an incantatory soundsorcery.
Industrial religion. Popbitch reports: > Rip Him To Shreds << Now
Michael Jackson will be destroyed Leaks from the Michael Jackson trial
paint a gruesome picture of life in Neverland: * Drawers full of boys'
soiled underwear * Photos of naked blond boys as young as seven *
Attempts to bribe cancer kid Gavin with promises to make him a film
star in return for being nice in the Bashir documentary * More than
100 boys sleeping over at Neverland in the last three years. As
Jackson is nearly broke and no more use to the music industry as a
recording artist, it's unlikely he'll have the legal firepower to get
off this time. Instead, this deeply troubled man is going to be torn
apart in a media feeding frenzy that reflects a new mood in society:
people are starting to resent celebrities and the influence they
wield. Jacko will be first sacrificial lamb. " Scott comes out of
hibernation and well he might the day after the 'greatest comeback in
FA cup history'. Two superegos, again, two 'consciences.' One: Mark
Sinker, the other: Robin Undercurrent. One telling me to watch, enjoy
the other telling me to turn off, reflect. I feel the pull of them
both. It was only reluctantly, but I suppose inevitably, that I
succumbed to watching I'm a Celebrity Get Me Out of Here this time.
Part of me goes with Robin and regards it as utterly pernicious trash:
at best, a waste of time, at worst, a sign of deep cultural malaise.
Part of me goes with Mark and Freaky Trigger: I'm a Celebrity is
mustwatch TV, trivial but harmless. I was similarly divided about
Lydon's appearance: appalled (has it really come to this?) but also
compelled (how can I miss this?) 'Now we don't even have programmes
on, we have programmes featuring a onceradical figure as a cipher, a
labral inside the efficientlyclonable dream of a production company,'
Robin complains. And who can doubt it? The irony is that Lydon has
become his own Public Image, his own simulation, at the same time, as
Marcello complains below, that PiL have been excised from his c.v.
Still, he had probably plumbed the depths of autoexploitation with the
Filthy Lucre tour. Was it then that he elected to become a pantomime
Sex Pistol, to play the part that McLaren demanded of him back in the
seventies, but which, then, he rejected? Robin's right, Lydon swearing
on TV is playing his expected part to a 't'. There was scarcely any
evidence of his chafing against his assigned role. (Even walking out
was part of it). Robin: 'Celebrities as 'normal people', what a
crushing doublebind.' Yes, indeed, and that's what I intended to
express by talking about 'celebreality': the obverse of 'ordinary
people' becoming celebrities on reality TV is celebrities becoming
'ordinary people'. Reality TV is the great leveller, and as such, is
inimical to the very aristocratic principle behind celebrity.
Celebrity, exactly like royalty, cannon withstand too much 'reality.'
Reality TV is only TV to the nth degree. As McLuhan said, when people
passed film stars in the street, they would think 'That's a screen
star!' but when they passed television stars, they would say, 'That's
someone I know.' My God, as I type, there's a programme on ITV in
which Fern Britton and philip schofield are almost counselling Neal
Ruddock's mum on his ejection last night. The solemn gravity, christ,
you'd think he'd been in a train crash.... Check this. Christine
Hamilton on Lydon: 'I feel let down by him.' P.S. So much for kpunk's
powers of prediction. Only hours after punk announced a JordanLydon
final, Lydon walks out..... The optimism thing won't go away. Now Joe
at The New Hip Hop, Political Correctness Trend enters the fray. There
haven't been many punk posts that have produced so much response, both
here (in the comments) and on other blogs. And there haven't been many
posts that have generated so much misinterpretation, either. Granted,
it was a post that invited misinterpretation. It's worth remembering
that my piece was originally a response to Marcello's vast 1985: the
worst year for music ever. Marcello's direction of the grisly remains
of that year were offered up as grim warnings of the perils of
poptimism. Now some, and Joe is clearly one of them, find the idea
that optimism could be dangerous risible. Who cares what the
equivalent of 2024's loggers will think of 2004? But my point wasn't
about the judgement of history. That begs too many questions about who
is sitting in judgement, and when. No. My point was about being
coerced by the pressure of the present into settling for less, being
bullied by Now into betraying your own libido. It isn't that people
who enjoyed music in 1985 are now shamefaced because of the judgements
of a few bloggers. (That would indeed be ridiculous.) It's not a
question of being shamefaced at all. It's a matter of a gradual
realization, as the intensity levels rise again, that what had become
acceptable as 'good pop' was anything but. So it's not some far off
court of taste that will 'decide' 2003 wasn't so great; it's 2004, or
2005 whenever Pop stirs itself again. Joe's point about nostalgia is a
curious one. In my original post, I said that it was the naysayers,
the antipoptimists , who would have been accused of nostalgia. And
being an antipoptimist is in a sense nostalgic, if saying that there
are times when Pop was better than it is now, is nostalgic. Joe also
adds a frankly bizarre reading of my sign-off remarks on Tears for
Fears. After quoting my comments "(I hold the first off album in high
esteem: and their decline, their classification and blusterization is
symptomatic of everything that went wrong in the Eighties.)", he
writes: 'The pathos of parentheses. I want to buy the guy a drink and
say DUDE, so you like the first Tears For Fears album? SO? Why would
you burden yourself with feeling bad about it, why would you let your
distaste for the band's subsequent work and what it may or may not be
"symtomatic" of tarnish your memories or the enjoyment you get from
listening to that album now?' Where did I say I was feeling bad about
liking the album? On the contrary! Marcello had rightly singled out
the 85 off for a kicking; I was merely pointing out that their debut
was much better. The point was about the difference between 1982 and
1985, and how TFF's decline reflected that. Stepping back from what
Joe said, and reflecting on this whole discussion, there seem to be
two optimist positions: 1: The idea that pop, now, is good. 2:
(encompassing 1) The idea that pop is always good. Position 1 optimism
strikes me as pretty threadbare Joe's own examples (Timbaland/ Missy,
the Neptunes) are, as his own qualified praise seems to grant, past
their best. And even if you get enjoy the new neptune and limbo
material, do you enjoy it as much as what the neptune were doing three
years ago, or what zimbalan was doing six years ago? 2003 was a
mediocre year for both of them. They aren't the issue, though: the
fact that they haven't been upstaged by any new pretenders is. I'll
say it again: hip hop is the problem in 2003/4. It might be a positive
problem, something that Pop has to reinvent itself to overcome. But
hip hop circa now is Pop's bloated, unreflective default option.
zimbalan and the neptune need the carpet pulling away from them, just
like punk pulled away the carpet from the Stones and the dinosaur
rockers in the mid 70s. So Position 1 I would vigorously dispute, but
Position 2 seems to me utterly indefensible, except in the sense that
Mark Sinker was adopting it, as a kind of a prior methodological
hypothesis. (See comments on this post). Mark's claim was that all
chart pop is, by definition, 'good pop' in that it works. Mark is not
a optimist proper though, since he wants to set aside questions of
evaluation, in the name of (what I would characterise as) a machine
analysis: 'I'm interested in what it's doing, and what I can do with
it' (not how good it is [alleged to be]). What's odd about optimist
position two is that it seems to be out of step with the experience of
being a fan: the ups and downs, the expectations and the
disappointments are part of the masochistic reel/real of being a
popfan, subtracted out by the sunny sideup, 'you can always find a
good record if you look for it' enlightened connoisseurship of the
Poptimist. You can find 'good records' in any year. But that doesn't
make every year a good year for Pop. Tom weighs into the debate on the
genreneverformerlyformally?knownasgrime. '"part of the collective
swagger of a scene thats on the up and brimming with confidence is
having a name and using it",' he writes, quoting Simon, 'on the other
hand knowing something's name = having power over it, including
commercial power. A scenename can be exploited by outsiders as easily
as insiders.' Sure, but such exploitation is a byproduct of a genre
moving out of the shadows, ceasing to be introverted. Tom must be
right that 'the nameclashes seem to [be] part and parcel of the
competitive, conflictdriven nature of the scene/sound', but such
conflict, indefinitely pursued, can only end up in the scene becoming
even more fractured, with even fewer sales. ski at the moment might be
largely free of exploitation from outsiders, but the cost of that and
it is a real cost, at every level, including the economic is that
insiders can't 'exploit' themselves or their sound, either. Besides,
the dialogic, intensely antagonistic nature of hip hop didn't prevent
it being named. Speaking of names, has anyone figured out the pitta
violent and the a time for fear brands? New posts on both today, but
what's the criteria for posting on one rather than the other, Oliver?
'I hate Sunday nights: I can't go to sleep, because I don't want to
feel the disappointment of waking up.'Thus speaks Baal . Wonderfully
horrid story about the cat, too. Blimey! Some sort of (post)punk
infection.... Not only does 'I'm a Celebrity...' feature John Lydon
(now more than ever resembling Old Man Steptoe), but tonight, its
opening sequence was soundtrack by.... 'Love Will Tear Us Apart'. OK,
I'll admit it, against my will (honest!), I've been sucked into
watching. Partly it's the disquieting thrill of reality disjunction.
Lydon (so evidently charismatic, so gargantuan a cultural presence) is
from another world, another ontological plane, to the rest of them.
There's the same frisson that must have occurred with royal visits
before the royal brand became fatally compromised. Lydon is so much
bigger than everyone else in the camp, all those has-beens and never
will bes. The inevitable far off between Jordan and John (who are
surely destined to be the last two standing) will be a struggle
between Celebreality and an older, (superceded?) version of fame.
Jordan, the pumped quotidian, a kind of hyperexaggerated ordinary,
John, last denizen of a mythic age... BTW, nice to see that some
thing's don't change. Lydon's 'fucking cunts' outburst live on ITV was
Bill Grundy all over again. Matt disagreeing about the Name Issue. But
punk remains insistent. When there is a threshold shift in sound,
there HAS to be a new name. Simon is surely right: if we're going for
garage, we might as well opt for something even more nonspecific like
'hardcore'. (Not that the decision will be made by 'us' of course).
step might not have been a particularly resonant name, but at least it
did the job of registering a shift in sound, mentality and
methodology. 'Rap' would do more harm than good, suggesting a set of
affinities and alignments that are problematic and misleading (cf the
blow debate a while back about why ski isn't hip hop). What have you
got against specificity in genre names, Matt? Surely there's a
contradiction in both calling for the name 'garage' and the name
'rap'? The very fact that both are in some sense appropriate is
precisely a reason why a new name is necessary (and an ungainly hybrid
like 'garage rap' won't cut it either). Incidentally, I'm not sure
what Matt means by saying that great names 'be they returned insults,
always come from within.' The scene must at a certain stage 'elect' to
accept and detour the insult, for sure, but, since it WAS an insult in
the first place 'jungle' (like 'desi') originally came from outside.
By the way, wouldn't Matt's logic, if in place at the time, have led
to a resistance to 'jungle': 'No, let's stick with hardcore.' Luke is
no doubt right to say that 'anyone who thinks the lack of a name is
going to spell the death of the music is crazy anyway' (see robot
comments); yet that isn't to say that the lack of a name doesn't
reflect a certain crisis in the scene. Crisis has a positive sense:
lack of resolution means that a scene is still germinal, still unsure
of exactly what it is, still in a state of becoming not 'branded', in
any sense of the term. Yet (contra Woebot) I would suggest that
perpetual avoidance of autobranding is damaging for a scene. Simon
MUST be right that the lack of a name is holding the scene back. 'I
guess the real issue at stake is that magazines and the crossover crew
don't just need a name, a handle, they need a NEW name,' Matt writes.
'It's packaging and advertising isn't it, a NEW product is needed to
stock on the shelves.' But the product IS new, and perversely refusing
to id it in some spirit of antimedia knockdown is like flatearth
follies resisting electricity. There is a difference in being named BY
the media and being named FOR the media. Taking a step back, there are
two interesting things about genre names. 1) They involve a COLLECTIVE
UNCONSCIOUS. An individual may come up with a name, but its acceptance
amongst a scene is a 'decision' taken collectively, not, needless to
say, by committees debating round a table, but by the unconscious
desire of the Massive. Only if a name resonates with this unconscious
collectivity will it stick. It's like a chemical reaction. 2) Naming
is not a neutral act of referring. Naming produces surplus value,
something that wasn't already there in the first place. 'Jungle' is a
classic example of this: the name didn't just describe a style, it
provided an instant mythology. There's a lack of will to myth in
falling back on 'garage' (which IMO was never a great name any
way).Undercurrent secures its reputation as best new blow on the block
with an evocation of eski's heart of darkness in BromleybyBow.
Cittaviolenta's Oliver confirms his status as one of our foremost
poets of London with a wonderful word painting of Soho. Angus on The
Talons of WengChiang. On Talons' intertextuality, the brilliant BBC
site (imagine working for that! What a job!) has a few interesting
things to say: "Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes canon has often
been cited as one of the story's major influences, but this was
disputed by Andy Lane in invasion Issue TwentyOne, dated December
1989: '[It] picks up not on the truth of Sherlock Holmes, but on what
people think the truth is. In fact, the vast majority of Holmes' cases
do not take place in London, do not involve fog and hansom cabs, and
revolve around villains smaller, rather than larger, than life... The
Doctor's costume of deerstalker and cloak is suitably Holmesian,
except that Holmes never wore a deerstalker that was the invention of
one of the original artists... Sherlock Holmes' reputation rests upon
his powers of observation, memory and deduction... In comparison, the
Doctor puts up a bad showing. Fair enough, his memory is as good he
immediately recognises scorpion venom, the Tong of the Black Scorpion,
the rat hairs on the murdered cab driver and the effects of opium. But
his ratiocination are few and far between... In fact... one [is put]
more in mind of Sir Denis NaylandSmith, arch-enemy of... Doctor
FuManchu. The connections here are more obvious: the fog, the alleys,
the crowds of orientals skulking through the streets spoiling for a
fight, the base on the river, the villain who expands his lifespan
through strange scientific means, the hero and his sidekick who
blunder into trouble but escape more by luck than judgment, the
melodrama, the plot device that could affect the world. It's almost
too good to be true.'" "There are things creatures, if you like from
the very beginnings of Time, and the very end of Time. And these
creatures have access to the corridor. They're forever... moving along
it. Searching... looking... trying to find a way in. They're always
searching, aways looking." "For the hole in the fabric?" "Yes. But
they must never be allowed in, never ever!" At the risk of annoying
the likes of Luka who aren't so keen on my 'seventies nostalgia'
posts, here's another one on Sapphire and Steel. A little background.
Sapphire and Steel was produced by ATV (ITV midlands region) between
1979 and 1982. It was the brainchild of author P J Hammond, who had
previously worked as a writer on police dramas such as The Gentle
Touch and Hunter's Walk and on children's fantasy shows like Ace of
Wands and Dramarama. Hammond explains the concept as follows: "The
basis of `Sapphire and Steel' came from my desire to write a
detectivestory, into which I wanted to incorporate Time. I've always
been interested inTime, particularly the ideas of J B Priestley and H
G Wells, but I wanted take a different approach to the subject. So
instead of having them backwards and forwards in Time, it was about
Time breaking in, and having settle precedent I realized the potential
that it offered with two people whosejob it was to stop the breakins."
I've just reached Adventure One and is really is an astonishing piece
of work. In Adventure One, Sapphire and Steel arrive at a house in a
remote coastal area. They find two children alone; their parents have
unaccountably vanished, and all the clocks in the house have stopped.
What follows is an exemplary exploration of the uncanny. The uncanny,
the unheimlich, the unhomely. Freud's original analysis of the term,
you will recall, drew upon the ambivalence of the word: the fact that
the homely includes the homely. The 'un' is a token not of negation
(there is no negation in the unconscious) but of repression. Adventure
One is set entirely within a family home, and Sapphire and Steel treat
the familiar objects of the house the children's story books, the
paintings, all the 'old things' as if they are dangerous weapons. Such
objects, it emerges, can be 'triggers' for the temporal breakdowns the
two time detectives are duty-bound to rectify. For Sapphire and Steel,
the house becomes an intensive space in which every slight movement,
every posture and word, potentially has a ritual significance. If the
series is remarkable for its cryptic refusal to pander to the
audience's demand for explanation, that is partly because it is
attuned to the unconscious, to the submerged knowledges that children
still possess but which adults have forgotten. On the level of the
unconscious, no explanation is necessary. Everyone knows there is
something disturbing about clocks. Everyone knows that nursery rhymes
are sinister incantations. Everyone knows that paintings contain
worlds you can fall into. Everyone knows there are realities a hair's
breadth away from our own into which you can step. Episode transcripts
P. J. Hammond interviews On the g**** naming phenomenon currently
doing the rounds at robot , I Feel Love and blissblog. I remain
ambivalent about 'grime' but convinced that 'garage' is just not
appropriate. 'Garage' was a crap enough term in the first place it
always had horrible resonances for me with 'tasteful' dance music, and
surely genrenaming has to register threshold shifts in sound. 2 step
wasn't speed garage, and 'grime' ain't 2 step. Seems to me that at
least two things mark out 'grime' as a distinct genre: the role of
MC's and its funkless, sexless mechanoia. Garage is up music,
sexmusic, cocaine and champagne audio: grime is a downer. Angus' point
that many genre names (disco, punk) are signifying is wellmade; so in
some senses it doesn't matter what the name is, but it does matter
that it has one. As Simon points out, names can be 'semantic weapons.'
Perhaps, like 'jungle' and 'desi beats' the name needs to come from
outside, from an insultturnedintoabadgeofpride. I notice that in
Robin's brilliant post on dizzy (and much else), he uses 'eski.' (btw,
Robin, Marcello Carlin had a similar experience to you re: the Blaine/
dizzy interface.) Blimey! Nick Gutterbreakz defends Go West ! To be
fair, Nick's is a dispassionate and interesting reappraisal of a
record he liked at the time. But I must admit, if there's a record
which sums up more or less everything I hate about the eighties, it
would be 'We Close Our Eyes.' Oddly enough, it's essentially for the
same reasons that Nick makes (half) a case for it. i.e. the 'BIG,
noise synth sound, HUGE drums, a weird lyric and ... strong vocal...'
It's all so BIG.... And in the mideighties, synths started to sound
horrible. Not like synths any more, but like surrogate brass sections,
and Go West were pioneers of this naturalization of electronics. I can
only make the comparison again with Gabriel's 'Sledgehammer', which to
me, typifies this: like Go West, it's at once completely, luckily
artificial and lovingly 'soulful.' And the video, the video: 'We Close
Your Eyes' seemed to be on the Chart Show every week for a year, a
sign of how functional and quotidian pop had become. The fact that
'Peter Cox looked completely at odds with the 'expected' pop star
image wearing a tatty vest, wielding a giant spanner and covered in
what looked like axlegrease' was part of what I detested about them.
They were a symbol of a new, declaimed Pop star: the 'ordinary bloke'.
Marcello talks about them as being the first generation not influenced
by punk; I think that punk itself could be construed as a moment in
Glam, and Go West and That Video represented the end of Glam. Pop
stars were no longer required to be strange, beguiling and
otherwordly. Nick asks: 'why is it okay to like Hall & Oates now, but
not Go West?' The crass answer is that Hall and Oates made good
records, whereas Go West were shit. I personally don't see any but the
most vaguely generic comparison with H and O yeh, Go West were
rocksoul, but I like Hall and Oates in spite of that. At their best,
Hall and Oates had at least two things Go West didn't: funk and
nuance. Everything is clumsily up Front, BIG, with Go West. There are
shadows in H and O: whereas Go West are like having a bright light
shine directly into your eyes. All that said, Go West certainly
sounded American. That's another of the features I hold them in
contempt for. post-punk pop had an anglospecificity that the likes of
Go West eliminated. They remind me of the sort of records you'd hear
on Paul Gambacini's Hot 100 rundown of the American charts on Saturday
afternoon; an experience I always associate with trudging around shoe
shops for some reason. I remember quailing in horror at the American
charts in those days. The banality.... Imagine if our Pop was like
that, I shivered. Go West ensured that it was. I fear that Nick's
final defence of GW will raise the hackles of papists everywhere. It's
exactly the kind of thing which irritates the likes of Angus G! 'At
least they wrote their own songs and played a few instruments,' Nick
writes, 'which is more than can be said for many of today's
fameforfame's sake teenypoppers. Marcello opines that Go West were the
first of a new breed untainted by Punk. I would suggest that they were
actually the (fag) end of the Creative teenybop era that period
facilites by punk lasting roughly 197985 when pin-up chart acts wrote
and performed their own material.' To the universal disgust of
Popists, I think Nick has something here. It's not just about 'playing
your own instruments', though, it's about people being able to realise
their own vision, and not being puppets of the likes of Simon Fuller
and Simon Cowell. (Why is their not a more audiofriendly word for
'vision' by the way?) It seems to me irrelevant whether people
actually play on their records, but that they, rather than some
cynical projected demographic, are the agent of the process is
important. Incidentally, shouldn't we seriously be thinking about a
'third way' beyond popish and Rockism? Does anyone else use
technorati? It all seems to have to gone to shit! Anyone know
anything? Derek at police takes up the optimist theme: 'I think the
rock critic can forget how intertextual pop is. People don't just buy
the CD, they see it on TV, hear it in the corner shop, read about it
in Heat. The cultural temperature in pop is always hot, unlike scenes
at the periphery which suddenly feel themselves becoming isolated.'
The Heating of Pop was part of what I was getting at before. The
relentless hyping of Pop, its opening out into gossip and celebrity,
produces a heat, but the artificial heat of consumermediasynergy, not
the heat of cultural/ social energy. TV sound turned down, Jordan and
John Lydon in the jungle on screen (no, it's not a dream), and
outside, behind the screen, snow begins to fall... LISTENING: to the
new Arthur Russell compilation on Soul Jazz. This is my belated
introduction to Arthur. And how I've missed him, all this time. The
slur of desire (disco John Martyn?). FEELING: A sudden painful
nostalgia for the loss of Penman. As a reader as well as a writer.
'"Does being a popish mean never having to admit there are any down
periods?" I would say yes, and that 'we' are right.' Angus takes issue
with my antipoptimist post. He complains, memorably, that
'[m]arshalling the judgment of history to your side is a bit like
calling in the US Army: a lot of your allies will end up as
"collateral damage," while in the meantime the worst villains go
untouched.' I'm not sure my point was about marshalling the judgment
of history so much as resisting the discrimination of contemporaneity.
Detached hindsight and involved 'now' sight strike me as a classic
'double pincer': an ostensible opposition whose two poles actually
reinforce and complement one another. My point was that there's an
overwhelming pressure, a neurotic pressure as the nervous system is
blitzed by hyperstimulus, by the ambient barrage of publicity to not
see beyond the Now. I'm naturally with Angus all the way in his
loathing for 'the the dread cult of "authenticity" and "realness" and
"soulfulness."' What I find slightly puzzling is his opposing Go West
to this: weren't Go West sold as "soulful Pop"? They were part of that
same hideous anschluss between horribly clunky eighties synthetics and
soulful authenticity that reached its apogee with Gabriel's
'Sledgehammer.' As for Angus' plea 'In a fair world, wouldn't Sting be
regarded as just as much a joke as Go West?' I thought he was! The
poet of Glasgow on Saturday night in Scotland's second city.
Unmissable... On the principle of waste not, want not, I've pasted
some material below that was originally intended for New York Press.
Apologies to Marcus from Rephlex, who sent me the review copies I did
try my best to get the reflex reviews placed. I've also included a
piece I wrote for nip on the Junior Boys it'll be old news to most of
youse lot, but it's probably worth an airing. Cybotnia: Cybotnia
Rewind Records Soundmurderer and SK1Pangeia Instrumentos: Victor Gama
Three releases showcasing the diversity of Londons maverick label,
Rephlex. The track ep Cybotnia is a collaboration between club (aka
longtime reflex artist Chris Jeffs) and Astrobotnia (aka Finnish
laptop dreamer alexis Perala). Initial impressions of a somewhat
forbidding glitches abstract techno give way, on subsequent listens,
to a growing appreciation of the duos command of texture and mood
control. jeff and Peralas digital pallet of electronic moans, groans,
squiggles, bleeps and ominous synths is offset by gently reversed
gongs and bells in what makes me think, on occasions, of a laptop
update of Cans Peking O or Japans Tin Drum. Like all the best
electronic music, Cybotnia sounds less like something painstakingly
programmed than a riotously luminescent audio unlifeform, undulating,
pulsating and mutating according to its own alien logic. Soundmurderer
is the alias of Todd Osborn, the owner of Detroits first Drum and Bass
record store; SK1 is one of the aliases of Ann Arbors add Mullinx, a
man who has produced instrumental hip hop under a variety of
pseudonyms (including Dabyre, on refuse 73s Eastern Developments
label).Their joint LP (released in association with Osborns
fittinglynamed Rewind label) is very much an enthusiasts record. It
lovingly revisits the British jumpup jungle sound of a decade ago: a
genre which consisted almost solely of Jamaican MC ragga chat riding
atop digital mishaps of the Amen breakbeat (so named because it is
sampled from munsters the Winstons track, Amen, Brother). If that
sounds limited, it actually wasnt: jump jungle made astonishingly
imaginative use of its few resources, and while history has been
somewhat unkind to the then more criticallyfeted artcore genre, jump
jungles libidinal brutalism still sounds fresh. Which is presumably
why producers have been drawn back to it recently. Fellow reflex
artist Luke robert is another currently mining a similar seam , on his
five ep series, Amen Andrews. But where robert imagines an alternative
past in which jump jungle is combined with techno, Soundmurderer and
SKs approach is strangely curatorial. In a sonic equivalent of Gus Van
Sants scenebyscene remake of Hitchcocks Psycho, the tracks seem to
have been conceived of as nearexact simulations of the original jump
sound, so much so that they could comfortably have been fitted into a
DJ set in 1994. Even when they sample a rap source (Public Enemys Mi
Uzi Weighs a Ton) it is from a pre 94track. The whole effect is
strangely disconcerting: as if a part of Britains mid90s (multi)
culture has been wholesale preserved and animated in the USA in 2003.
In every way different is Victor Gamas Pangelos Instrumentos. If
Soundmurderer and SK1 recreate the nearpast, Gama aims to establish a
continuity between the ancient past and the present. Gama, an Angolan
of Portuguese origin, produces his sounds on acoustic devices he has
designed as evolved versions of traditional African instruments. These
strange machines  so oddly beautiful that they have been exhibited as
sculptures  produce a hauntingly desolate sound, simultaneously
harmonic and percussive. Gamas deceptively simple, intricate
involution can sound like Steve Reich played on a ribcage; or junkyard
symphonies played on glass; or chimes gently agitated by a playful
wind; or automata learning to make music by beating their own mechanic
spines. (Im reminded of the apartment of the android tinkerer,
Sebastian, in Blade Runner.) Yet what breathes through all these
compositions is the silence and space of desert(ed) terrains,
landscapes populated by noone but traversed by nomads; geographies
beyond ordinary human time Richard X Presents the factor Volume 1 Were
looking for the Xfactor. Line endlessly repeated by judges on the UKs
Pop Idol/ popsters Is Richard X a symptom of Pops current malady, or a
potential cure? With its hiredhand reality TV star guest vocalists,
fruit machine bleeps, simulated adverts and omnipresent, ominous sense
of ubiquitous commodification (everything is for sale  even this!),
Richard X presents his factor is a distorting outhouse mirror of UK
Pop 2003. But step through the mirror and you enter an alternate Pop
universe of which X is the mad scientist xperimenterGod. XYZ not r n
r. The Year Zero of Xs perverse is something like our 1979. Xs No rock
and roll in Xs Pop antihistory, which begins with the synthesizer, and
ends  or loops back on itself  before our Pop universe rehabilitated
guitar and the future ended. Xs is a postmodern Modernism, a revival
of Synthpops disdain for rock nostalgia. You will be familiar with Xs
trademark technique from last years smash, Freak Like Me, in which the
Sugababes sang alina Howard over subway Armys Are Friends Electric? Dr
X repeats the same trick  splicing black r n b with white electro on
Liberty Xs Being Nobody (a Human LeagueChaka Khan hybrid) and on
Keliss Finest Dreams (Human League again, plus SOS Band). Yet on the
album this seems to be less a gimmick than a formula for a Pop Utopia,
or Utempia, in which Pop is racially  and temporally  desegregated. X
engineers a Pop present in which Soul and Synths are (un)natural
bedfellows. The template, oddly enough, might have been the early
Spandau Ballet. Back in 1981, Spandau were soul boys turned leaders of
the New Romantic scene, and its no surprise to hear their Chant Number
1 getting the X treatment on Rock Jacket. Like the whole New Romantic
clique, Spandau were Art Pop, and it is Art Pop that factor dreams of
digitally restarting. Art Pop was metaPop, and so is X Factor: a self-
conscious reflection on 00s Pop and its status as commodity. Has
Richard X sold out? asks a meaningless market research survey on the
CD booklet, in an echo of The Who Sell Out, a previous landmark in Art
Pop. Nothing new? Nothing now? The nullity of a kington Pop well past
its selby date? Yes or no? Or X for unknown? THE JUNIOR BOYS: HAIL THE
NEUROMANTICS Its strange, isnt it, how synthpop is so associated with
a certain era? Rock sounds and riffs are invariably allowed to ascend
to some timeless place, beyond the vagaries of fashion, but dare to
invoke synthpops textures, and youll be labeled retro quicker than you
can say Moog . Sometimes the accusation is justified: the Electroclash
scene, or  an even more extreme example Detroits Adult, display a
forgers obsessiveness, a fans desire to reanimate, wholesale, a
particular moment, sometime in 1980 All of which confirms that nothing
dates quite so quickly as Yesterdays Future. And just a few years ago,
nothing was more embarrassing than synthpop. Were indebted to kodak
Eshuns study of sonic fiction, More Brilliant Than the Sun, for
effecting a complete revaluation of the genre. Eshuns tracking of the
resources of hiphop, techno, house and jungle took him far beyond the
usual suspect, Kraftwerk  who already enjoyed more or less universal
respect  and down into the bargain bin depths of the apparently
redeemable and the laughable: Gary Numan, Visage and A Flock of
Seagulls. Their rep as nohopers, shun showed, was limited to White
Rock(ism): in Techno Detroit and hip hop New York, the synthpoppers
were revered as pioneers of electronic music. (Anyone who doubts this
should check out curtis Mantroniks 2002 compilation on Londons Soul
Jazz records, Thats My Beat. The LP  a collection of the tunes that
inspired Mantronik when they were played in the New York clubs of the
early eighties includes Visage, Yello, YMO, and Sakamoto.) What
happened along the way, as synthpop begat Mayday and Underground
Resistance, was that the synth got severed from the Pop. The Song got
lost as the Track got built. All of that changes with the Junior Boys,
whose debut EP, Birthday/ Last Exit is released in September on
Londons kin records. The Junior Boys  who are actually just one boy,
Jeremy Greenspan hail from Hamilton, Ontario, and theres a pleasing
symmetry in the fact that the Junior Boys material is to come out on a
London label. Detroits infatuation with synthpop brought with it an
attendant anglophile (check all those simulated English accents on the
early Model 500 records!), so theres something of a closing of a cycle
here. North America returns synthpop to its home, changed and renewed.
Renewal is the key. While the Junior Boys retain synthpops modernism,
its intolerance for the old (something that Techno built a genre upon)
what they also recover is something that is often forgotten about
synthpop: its melancholia. Synthpop is usually remembered as
deathofaffect emotionless, Terminator cold. Yet that very coldness
often had a keening, plangent quality, an impersonal sadness, as if
the machines themselves were weeping. The Junior Boys have obviously
absorbed Numan and Foxx, but it is old who come to mind most when
listening to Birthday and Last Exit. These delicate, vulnerable songs
recall the yearning swoon of something like OMDs Souvenir. Yet there
is no trace of revivalism here. In fact, it is just as easy to fit the
Junior Boys into another trajectory altogether. Five years ago, the
manic easy rush of Speed Garage slowed down as it became acquainted
with Timbalands R and B. The result was 2step, an itchy and scratchy,
edgy, dance music in which voice and song once again became central,
albeit subjected to samplermicrosplicing reconstruction and
recombination. Londons Garage scene has taken another turn, into the
brutalism rap of the socalled Grime scene. The Junior Boys rhythms
tripping and stuttering in that addictive victim zimbalan discovered
are a continuation of the prematurely curtailed step experiment. In
combining step with synthpop  a crude and mechanical description of
their beguiling sonic sorcery, which could just as easily be compared
to Steely Dan or Scritti Politti the Junior Boys have mapped out a
future for white pop. They have resisted the temptation either to
ignore black music  never on the cards in their case  or to redundant
ape it. Instead, they have produced a new white pop template that
acknowledges and absorbs black influence, but has the confidence to
literally  speak in its own voice. The Junior Boys vocals  vulnerable,
quiet, quavering, wavering with longing  are their special treasure.
Both Birthday and Last Exit are intimated in Jeremys emaciated,
literate night swooncroon, the sound of a dream voice, a dreamed voice
And make no mistake: this is pop music; there is a subtly compulsive
hook in almost every line. The term neuromantic is being applied to
Junior Boys and, in its suggestion of Gibsonesque edgytech plus
synthpop plus emotional ravishment, its perfect. The sound of a
renewed future . Amidst the increasing piles of spam I daily wade
through was something quite disturbing. 'Need to host child porn,
illegal content, Spam advert site? Try www.*******.net you will be
able to host anything you desire?' Charming offer. A few remarks
prompted by Marcello's memories of 1985: the worst year for music
ever. 1985, so bad it could almost be ..... now? Worth reflecting that
in 1985 those who pointed to the obvious poverty of pop in would
inevitably have been accused of nostalgia. The tragic fate that awaits
such cheerleading should serve as a warning to our current Poptimists.
Didn't they know? Couldn't they see they were in a time of privation,
of drought? Ask yourself this: is the choice between British Sea Power
and Justin Timberlake really that much better than the choice between
the Loft and Go West? Is beyond much of an improvement on 85's
Whitney? Newness and newness lends successful Pop a (con)temporary
sheen that is quickly tarnished. A year or so down the track, when the
gleam of success and publicity and shiny contemporaneity has left the
records, when Time performs a reverse alchemy, transforming commercial
dominance into unsaleable carbon sale fodder, that is when the error
of our ways is revealed. And come 2005, no self-respecting car boot
will be complete without the beyond album in it, mark my words. Like
much, if not most of today's Pop, it is a carbootsale record in
waiting. You can already detect that fate, you can see the skull
beneath the skin, the shadow on the lung. I suppose all of this is
like the antidote to SFJ's by now legendary piece on Justin T (a flag-
waving exemplar of baptism if ever there was one) and no doubt my
setting Old Father Time on Little Girl Pop sounds like rocks bullying,
a scattering of Pop's starlight by a maudlin Monday morning Real. Pop
is about the glorious effusive, delusive Now, isn't it? About losing
yourself in the Moment, not about longterm investment? But this begs
the question: does it ever rain in Popistville? Does being a popish
mean never having to admit that there any down periods? Further note,
prompted by Marcello's rundown. The word 'big': doesn't this connote
everything crap about that mid-eighties period? Big Country, Big Audio
Dynamite, the pitiful Big Sound Authority. As a word, 'big' is,
ironically, horribly squat, isn't it? 'Bigness': doesn't that capture
the oxymoronic stadiumfilling emptiness of the mideighties?
Eurythmics, Live Aid, Tears for Fears' 'Everyone wants to Rule the
World.' They were all Big events. (I hold the first off album in high
esteem: and their decline, their classification and blusterization is
symptomatic of everything that went wrong in the Eighties.) In his
roundup of 2003 roundups, Angus wondered out loud as to why I'd
included the Richard X album in my highlights of 2003. Isn't this
everything punk should hate, he asked? Surely Richard X is the kind of
self-conscious metaphor I'm pledged to destroy? Well, I included
Richard X in the same section as I included The Rapture: as a guilty
pleasure. How could I resist an album that is so shot through with the
spirit (and sound) of 7982? There's a paradoxical nostalgia for lost
futures that is part of the punk aesthetic. (See nostalgia post
below.) Jameson identifies 'the nostalgia mode' as a defining
component of the postmodern. This is nostalgia as form more than
content: his examples are Star Wars and Body Heat, films which revived
an earlier mode without being explicitly revivalist. (Star Wars
revived the adventure serials of the Thirties, while Body Heat,
despite having a contemporary setting, revived the Film Noirs of the
Forties.) Richard X represents a postmodernist modernism, or modernist
postmodernism, in which what is revived is modernism's very hunger for
novelty itself. The Numan and Human League which Richard X tools and
refits were the last gasps of modernism in Pop, before the spiralling
temporality (nothing is new, everything is forgiven) of polo clicked
in. All of which brings to mind Simon's (relatively) recent comments
(inspired by rant against Daft Punk *) on the possibility of irony and
awe coexisting. The strange thing is, I'd never thought of Daft Punk
as especially detached. I'd assumed almost the opposite: that it was
genuine enthusiasm for Supertramp, 10cc, el and Wings that inspired
them into breaking ranks with accepted taste and simulating their
sound on Discovery. I wonder if there's something about electronic
music which lends itself to producing this problematic, though? The
original awe-inspiring ironies would be Kraftwerk, they who made
detachment into an art form, yet whose sound was gleaming awesome. Two
other examples: The Pet Shop Boys (eyebrows raised but achingly
melancholic) and Yello (aristocratically detached, but capable of
swooning majesty). *And what a rant: 'isn't this the music of
shoreditch twats, the Face, those mindless 'i love the 80s'
programmes, jamie theakston, asymmetric haircuts worn with a pursed
slipped sense of superiority, the shift from ecstacy to cocaine, from
exclusivity to exclusivity, new labour, silver and white restaurants,
the shift from pubs to bars, the rise of the word 'lifestyle', jimmy
carr, that way of speaking so that you're voice goes up at the end so
that you can't show enthusiasm for, or commitment to, anything, yeah?,
unwilling dress code policies for nominally 'punk' clubs [hello
kashpoint], miniscooters, kids in designer clothes instead of stuff
their grans knitted for them, the rise of the word 'designer', the
ubiquity of ciabatta, coffee tables, art-school mullets, childrens tv
presenters in iron maiden tshirts, the chapman brothers and so on and
on. you get the idea.' Love it! But I do like Jimmy Carr.And if
ciabatta is ubiquitous, all well and good, as far as I am concerned.
Is nostalgia 'missing the point', as our unnamed correspondent has it?
(See Comments on the Comedy/ Drama post, below). Is the problem with
nostalgia that it gives a false image of the past? That it judges the
present too harshly by comparison with a past that never was? But what
if the past was better than the present? What if the greatness of the
past was, after all, no illusion? Are we still being nostalgic in
noticing this? Or is the problem with nostalgia that it pretends that
the past has not passed that the old and the superseded are still
current? Dare it be admitted, but isn't Hip Hop the problem these
days? Hip hop is now totally assimilated; not so much a part of the
mainstream, as the mainstream itself, Pop's Reality (Principle).
There's nothing unsettling about it any more. On the contrary: hip hop
is quotidian, everyday. It's everything you'd want to escape from.
Sometimes literally. The hip hop uniform of trainers and hooded tops
is the default uniform of youth, associated both with a dreary lack of
imagination and a wholly unexciting sense of physical threat. And if
being once wore the sheen of prometheus excess, now it is both
repellent AND tedious. There's only so long and so far that you taunt
the moralising lefties in you... Something like Cribs(the most boring
kind of consumer porn) is unthinkable outside a Hip Hop culture in
which Success is all. Isn't hip-hop now a kind of antiglam? It is an
ultramasculinist refusal of glam and its feminizing threat. If you are
looking for the 00's equivalent of 70's rock dinosaurs, look no
further than JayZ, harwell and their kin. Like those lumbering beasts
of three decades ago, they are living off the sonic invention of the
previous decade, complacently assuming that they still occupy the
avantgarde. And even when it's good, and it still often is, be honest
can you bring yourself to care? Take the Neptunesproduced kells
single. Objectively speaking, I ought to like it, but I just can't
summon any enthusiasm for or interest in it. Same goes for the new
Ludracris single. Great sounds. Never want to hear it again. Am I
alone? A whole series about time anomalies? Not time travel , but
ruptures, twists in the fabric of time. On ITV? Those were the days.
19791982, to be precise. Not coincidentally, the prime years for punk
music. David McCallum and Joanna Lumley star in what a finite
describes as '[d]efinitely one of the strangest series ever produced.'
No exaggeration, surely. Sapphire and Steel. Here was a series,
notionally 'science fiction', in which '[n]othing is explained,
absolutely nothing. This is where the series gets most of its dramatic
impact the near-total ignorance of the viewer as to what is going on.
No nice pauses in the action whilst the master fiend explains his/her
plans for conquest of the Universe. In many of the stories, the master
fiend is even invisible, so you never even see what it is that's being
dealt with. Either that, or the creature is every possible shape
simultaneously...' What stopped the series being frustratingly
obscurantist were the unmistakeable contours of a logic, albeit one
that was only fleetingly apparent to the viewer. Sapphire and Steel
had the consistency of dream; but whereas the tendency in most
'dreamlike' narratives is to ultimately defuse the power of the
oneiric, Sapphire and Steel never dissipated dream mystery with
(over)explanation. Its decontextualised images and sinister sonic
refrains were allowed to retain their unsettling force. Watching now,
Sapphire and Steel looks like Tarkovsky's Stalker mixed with Dr Who
and Magritte. Science fiction with none of the traditional trappings
of the genre, no spaceships, no rayguns: no anthropomorphic foes, only
the unravelling fabric of the corridor of Time, along which strange,
malevolent entities would crawl, exploiting and expanding gaps and
fissures in temporal continuity. All we knew about Sapphire and Steel
was that they were 'detectives' of a peculiar kind, sent from equally
mysterious 'agency' to repair these breaks in time. Like Tarkovsky's
Stalker, Sapphire and Steel are Sensitives, attuned to chronic
disturbances beyond the perceptual range of human beings (including
the audience). Sapphire and Steel carried themselves with an inhuman
poise, a lofty sense of their superiority to humans. Like the series
itself, the two lead figures were (gratifyingly) lacking in humour.
(The self-reference that had begun to infect Dr Who was refreshingly
absent from Sapphire and Steel). McCallum's Steel was icily
indifferent to the humans into whose affairs he became reluctantly
enmeshed; and if Lumley's Sapphire appeared more sympathetic , there
was always the suspicion that her apparent affection for human beings
was much like an owner's feeling for a pet. Like Nigel Kneale
(Sapphire and Steel's Adventure One is a virtual remake of 'The Stone
Tape'), like the best of Dr Who, like Lovecraft, Sapphire and Steel's
appeal lay in its exploration of the Gothic side of SF. Its frissons
came from the uncanny, from the shudders it managed to evoke from
familiar objects and phenomena which refuse to ever relinquish their
weird associations. The conduits for temporal breakdown are often
Freud's strangely familiar: in Adventure One, children's nursery
rhymes; in Adventure Four, old photographs. Sapphire and Steel is
about as far away from Now SF as you could imagine. Lowbudget, small
cast (most often only Lumley and McCallum and a couple of others),
highconcept: a world away from the classified likes of the Matrix
trilogy. Massively pleased to have made Troubled Diva's roundup of
2003 for some of my Dr Who comments (see September 27th) but it seems
I may have to eat my words about Colin Baker. (Eagleeyed readers will
note that I have already eaten my words, unprompted, about Dido
described early on this year by punk as the very personification of
blandness or nonesuch Girls Aloud and, to some extent, David sylvia
solo, so it's nothing new.) Both the estimable Angus and Tom Ewing
have surprised themselves by really liking Vengeance in Varos, a Colin
Baker adventure. My goodness: is a transvaluation in progress?
Annoyingly, UK Gold has taken Dr Who off its late, late night Fridays
and Saturday omnibus slot and buried it in more bite-size pieces
earlier on in the evening throughout the week, so chances are I won't
have the opportunity to catch any of the C.Baker episodes to see if
this astonishing revaluation is merited. (At least I managed to review
almost the whole of the Pertwee and the Tom Baker episodes before this
rescheduling travesty. Bliss!) Hmmmmm. Remind me I owe you posts on
irony and awe, Children of the Stones and Sapphire and Steel, will
you? Well, now that the Big Read has wound up Lord of the Rings the
best novel ever, anyone? the BBC tries the same trick with British
situation comedies. The public have been polled about their favourite
sitcoms and the Top Fifty, as presented by Jonathan Ross this evening,
was a largely predictable run through the usual suspects, interrupted
by the odd perplexing interloper the woefully average My Family
achieving any sort of placing was distressing enough, but the Vicar of
disley reaching the top ten (some twenty odd places higher than
Hancock and Reggie Perrin) really was a joke, one that Ross couldn't
resist a gratifying sneer at. I fully expect Dad's Army , which, like
The Two Ronnies, Tommy Cooper, and Laurel and Hardy, I've always found
faintly exasperating rather than funny, to win. Unlike drama, which is
dead on British TV these days, comedy is something that television
here still does well. The Office, League of Gentlemen (which despite
not being a sitcom featured in tonight's rundown), 'Where does it all
come from? Maybe nightmares are just intensely weird dreams. I doubt
it. There is something more sorcerous than that, in the black ones,
the vidal ones that rend sense from sensibility, cast up shadows of
demons and worlds torn asunder. If there are other dimensions, other
planes, other spheres of existence, they burst into the downed walls
of the sleeping mind in nightmares. Are they glimpses of these planes
of reality? Too vast, unholy, and unearthly for our weak human minds.
Are they messages from the void? Or echoes of the place we go when we
die?' Baal with his Lovecraftian speculations on the origins of
nightmares. Anyone who cares about good writing, don't waste time
here, go to Erase the World now. (And check out his brilliant post on
railway journeys, too.) Pointless, now, surely to produce the fanfare
second part of kpunk's end of the year roundup only eight days into
the year and all that stuff just seems so old . Have to agree with
Simon that the task of identifying 03's (or any year's Madeleines) is
well-nigh impossible until long after the event. A year's taste as in
what a year tastes of is more likely to be carried by its mediocre, or
downright atrocious, products. Anything one likes or treasures is
likely to transcend the era that produced it if only because one
continues to listen to it long after the year in was produced. But the
Bad, the Mediocre, they remain mired in their time, marked by it and
now markers of it. What do the late eighties taste of if not Go West
or T'Pau (who had a certain pompous majesty, come to think of it)? The
second part of the roundup was to have focused on records I hadn't
bought would never buy but which were Significant in 03. A couple of
tracks I was reminded of by other people's lists: Coldplay's 'Clocks'
(wonderfully evoked by Jess, I think, and championed by Matt not so
long ago, if memory serves) and Moloko's 'Familiar Feeling' (which if
I'm not mistaken featured on Jon Dale's list). I'd initially pegged
coldly as Hated Generic Indie Enemy, but I've gradually found myself
beguiled by them. I think it's the fact that they're plan-led which
allows them to escape the R and Recapitulationsyndrome. There's a
milky, watercolour diffuseness about their sound, a slightly autofocus
impressionist haze to it that prompts me to imagine tubby remixes in
which the space in their tracks was exploited and expanded. 'Clocks',
as I think Jess said, is like a requiem for dance music; Matt spoke of
'rave comedown piano', and that's perfect. 'Clocks' is like Derek May
on valium. There's a thrilling disconnect between the exhilaration of
the cascading piano and the desolate tone of Martin's voice. 'Clocks'
can be put alongside the moloch track because both were tracks about
time, about dea vu and madeleine moments. (I imagine: because
Coldplay's lyrics have never really registered with me; any message I
take from them comes from the mournful grain of Chris Martin's voice,
another smeary squall in the coldly pallette). Roisin's lyrics,
however, never other than gnomic, demand interpretation. Here is a
voice in every way opposed to Martin's: it's angular, assumed,
pointedly unnatural. And not one voice, but many. 'Familiar Feeling'
is about a Time that is not sequential, the alreadyseen time of the
lovers' first encounter. And then, in my roundup, I would have talked
about Diva versus Dido. If the iconic, inescapable image of the Female
in 03 was beyond (with Christina not far behind), then the quietly
implacable, implacably quiet woman's woman was Dido. I've said nothing
about Dido here (reserving my paeans to her for the comments box on I
Feel Love), but 'White Flag' was one of my favourite pop singles of
last year. beyond and Christina insist on squaring the circle: in
presenting themselves as objects for the male gaze and as empowered
Women.Dido whose prettiness is as bland as her records often seem to
be has always insisted on the right to vulnerability and failure. I'm
willing to bet that Dido's audience is almost exclusively female, to
an unusual degree in pop artists. Dido is a womanforwomen in a way
that beyond and Christina will never be. Belying her reputation for
AOR confectionery, 'White Flag' is a song of desperate love, coming
from the thin line between loving dedication and stalkerobsession.
There's something in the phrasing and in the ice-cold certainty of the
song's emotions that reminds me of the Ferry of 'Sea Breezes' or
'Chance Encounter'; you can almost imagine the Ferry of the seventies
covering it. Dido's delivery almost stilted, lacking in the throaty
passion de rigour in these r and b dominated times is refreshingly
cool. 'White Flag' forms a neat contrast with 'Life for Rent', the
title track of the LP, which sings of the opposite condition: a
dissolute inability to commit. It's like Jean Paul Sartre meets Sex
and the City. Wandering aimlessly through the hypermarket of the
postmodern, fingering all the options but never settling on any one of
them, Dido castigates herself for her failure to really engage, to
stick at or believe in anything for very long, to make meaningful
choices. She concludes that, if this is the case, she 'deserves'
nothing, because nothing is really hers. And then I would have talked
about Girls Aloud, who I have managed to fall in love with. Like
Liberty X, they seem now to have escaped the taint of Popstars. Their
story is almost the Great Rock 'n' Roll Swindle in reverse. If
McLaren's film seemed cynical in the seventies, its essential message
that Pop success can be manufactured through the media is now so
commonplace as to be utterly unremarkable. Follow McLaren's logic and
you end up not with the Mephistophlean Situationist McLaren imagined
himself to be, but Simon Cowell the embodiment of instrumental
cynicism. popsters adds a Baudrillardian twist of the knife to
McLaren's scenario by inducing the public into the streaking process.
So far, so ho hum. But Girls Aloud with their sullen demeanour, with
their spoilt kid attitude, with the whiff of scandal and violence
surrounding them have given every impression of twisting the puppet
strings . 'No Good Advice' and 'My Life Got Cold' (this latter better,
needless to say, than the 'Wonderwall' it shamelessly steals from)
were an unexpectedly wintry brace of singles, which, as Marcello
rightly pointed out, nihlistically advertised the vacancy at the heart
of (contemporary) pop. Don't ask me to identify what appeals about the
superficially perfunctory cover of the Pointer Sisters' 'Jump!', but
every time it came on MTV or the Box, I turned up the
volume.Intermittent insomniac radio silence breaker..... punk would
love to provide you with one of those end of the year roundup that
everyone else is doing but I'm just not systematic enough about
remembering what came out when. And, not having yet managed to secure
(sufficient) freebies, nor being a radio junkie like Luke, nor an
obsessive collector like Matt, I haven't got close to hearing fifty
albums this year, so choosing a top fifty would be a little difficult.
Better than choosing the best in some ways would be to choose the 03
Madeleines: those moments that will later recall twenty zero three.
(Though it's almost impossible to say what they are now.) WHAT THE
FUTURE OF POP SOUNDED LIKE IN 2003 Junior Boys Birthday/ Last Exit ep.
The record without which no self-respecting endof03 roundup is
complete. So much has been said about the JBeez, and their uniqueness
lies in the fact that they can be placed next to the musics in the
category below the contemplative, uneasy listening of sylvia and Foxx/
Budd as much as in the company of anything more conspicuously
contemporary. Their triumph is a triumph of visionary diagonals over
marketing angles, doing what is so right as opposed to what is
required or what is inevitable. The Junior Boys are obvious in that
retrospective way that everything ground-breaking always is: of course
there's no reason why Daryl Hall shouldn't swoon with sylvia and
Timbaland.+ And of course that obviousness eluded all the labels who
rejected them in the early days: (see the Hyperdub interview, if you
doubt it). + Note: reTimbaland. Be honest: Jeremy is more interesting
than Tim these days. As Simon says, who can muster much more than
indifference for limbo now? LOST FUTURES/ ALTERNATIVE PRESENTS sylvia
Blemish. John fox and Harold Budd Transluscence/ Drift Music. For one
insane minute after I posted that rant on the Pop Idol Xmas record, I
began to wonder if my vitriol might have been a little illinformed,
since it was based only on a cursory halflisten to the single. Then I
caught the end of Pop Idol tonight, in which the Pop Idol Twelve
(appropriate name, that; sounds like a group of terrorist suspects up
in court crime: cultural murder) performed their long slow slaughter
of Lennon. 'And soon these eyes Chreestmas......' They ALL sound the
same. Close your eyes, it's impossible to tell any of them apart. They
ALL pronounce words in that stupid mid-atlantic accent. They ALL layer
on the vibrato. Question: BEFORE Pop Idol, did EVERYONE sing like
this? Did Pop Idol merely pick up on a trend in karaoke r'n'boybland
emoting, or did it INVENT it? War is over? It hasn't even STARTED....
... about Erase the World: 1. The poetry of the writing. Check his
evocation of Yorkshire, for instance. I was all but packing my bags...
2. The existential fixation on death. 3. The willingness to buck
fashion and defend the indefensible. I wholeheartedly agree about
Manilow's 'Mandy' (and while I find charitable thoughts towards
westcliff quite beyond me, if we have to put up with them picking
young girls' pockets, it might as well be with a song that it isn't
actually physically intolerable). Isn't this, from the Loaf , just
perfect? 'Extraordinary this brain, the one I reluctantly inhabit. It
just seems to want to reflect badly upon every event that it
encounters. The body lies down and then the brain pours bitter vitriol
on the day. And I can't seem to tame it, no matter what training I
apply to it. It just doesn't like living.' As a Loaf fan, I find
myself torn when faced with the latest, felicitous developments in
Sean's life: pleased for Sean, but worried about the future of the
Loaf sitcom. Loaf leaving the ranks of the Single Male? Whatever
next... All this going out and getting a life, where will it end? Lest
we forget, check these words of wisdom: "So yes, at the moment I am
SINGLE. How ashamed I am! Christ, I should hand myself in to the
nearest police station. And I don't own a property, I don't own any
LAND. And my greatest crime (should I confess it? Yes I shall) I
haven't BRED. I have gone against nature, I have rebelled against the
laws of nature. I should be strung up." It's not personal, really it's
not. (After all, we know so little about her. She's perfected that
smiling art of PR deflection, of projecting a sweetly vacuous
wholesomeness. Fair enough, that's not the issue.) It's not even about
the records. I'm highly partial to many of them; not only 'Slow' and
'Can't Get...', but most of the old SAW tunes, too. I think what I
hold Kylie responsible for is trailblazing the rise of the Performing
Arts Pop Star (the PAPS). There's something ironic about the triumph
of the Performing Arts aesthetic, because pass are actually very
unconvincing performers precisely because they have 'professionalized'
performance, turned into a series of learnable 'moves' and
'techniques'. In the case of Kylie, I suspect this distantiation has
something to do with being a (bad) actress: she has to always let you
see that is her doing the Performing. She has to own it , she is
incapable of going with it. Letting yourself go, getting carried away,
are of course very unprofessional . Whereas great performance is
always about being possessed , taken over. Or at least being capable
of projecting that illusion. A comparison that will no doubt invite
derision: Alex Parks. Alex is almost the diabetic opposite of Kylie.
What she's incapable of doing is looking detached, of being arch or
meta. Believe it or not, she's actually much more comfortable on
television than Kylie. Kylie can't ever forget, or let us forget, that
she's On TV; there's always that aura of selfconsciousness, which
finds its alibi in Camp. Alex entirely lacks this. Her every
microgesture screams Affect. In fact, is there anyone less Camp than
Alex? Interesting how this cuts across issues of sexuality by the way.
While Kylie, for all her vaunted gay following, is almost parodically,
pornographically heterosexual, but thoroughly Camp (a bit like the
allegedly hetero Robbie), Alex, zerodegreecamp, is sexually
ambivalent, achingly androgynous. Who could now harbour the delusion
that there is anything remotely subversive or unsettling about Camp?
Camp is the ruthlessly enforced metaaesthetic of the time, a
justification and underpinning for conservatism of all stripes
(including sexual conservatism). And Kylie is its Pop Queen.
Documentary from 99 on The Clash repeated tonight on BBC2 to
commemorate the first anniversary of Strummer's death. Well, the music
is unredeemable: a frustrated, frustrating, blocked, blunt, ugly
sludginess. None of the Pistols' cascading Glam power, none of Lydon's
sorcerous incandescence, just honesttogoodness loft Brit garage rock
and Strummer's social worker rabblerousing. (Spit on me, and I know
I'll lose brownie points hereabouts for this, but I always thought
that The Jam were much better at this sort of thing. The
ramrodinflexibility and devoidoffunk whiteness of the early Jam
(almost the antiope of the Style Council's flailing attempts at
soulfulness and jazz-funk 'sophistication') was just much more
effective than The Clash's inchoate bluster. Both bands essentially
boiled down the Kinks' Brit Invasion sound into a council estate rock
for the is (The Clash throwing in some earnest but awful reggae into
the mix, of course) yet The Jam made better use of their resources.
'Going Underground' and 'Eton Rifles' bristle with class nuances and
ambivalences in a way that The Clash's faded placards never did. 'What
chance have you got against a tie and a crest,' remains a great line,
too.) It's obvious now that The Clash paved the way for U2: as the
Clash (by then topside in America) implored with impeccably
anticareerist timing in 1982, U2 were waiting in the wings, and five
years later they would complete the job that The Clash had started,
selling American mythmusic back to the Americans. All that said, who
could not feel more than a pang of nostalgia for the seventies when
watching the documentary? Music as an (anti)social force, as cultural
electricity. Music as more than music... All gone now... What the
early Clash in particular must be celebrated for is the abstract sense
of potential that they embodied: anything could happen.... All gone
now... And now, and NOW, isn't everything jaded before it has even
been released? Everything's cornered. There's always an angle , a
marketing strategy, a masterplan, it's all sewn up. Yeh, that was
always the case to some degree, no doubt but has mainstream Pop at any
time since the Fifties been so bereft of cultural energy? A blind,
implacable marketing mechanism, artistically indifferent to new input,
permanently set to recycle ..... It seems almost gauche obvious to
complain, but isn't that Pop Idol Lennon travesty just typical of
this? Even I can't watch Pop Idol now, by the way. Watching ITV at the
best of times is a soiling and debasing experience. Pop Idol takes
this to a new level. You can't watch without your reality flattening
out into a endlessly scrolling tabloid page in which everything is
reduced to the lowest common denominator: you feel contaminated,
greasy. Impossible and irrelevant to moan about Cowell's aesthetics.
What you have to admire about him, actually, is his undisguised
instrumentalism his total indifference to content. In that respect, he
is a metonymy for remorseless Kapital. (The News of the World actually
gave away a free Best of Simon Cowell CD a few weeks ago you'd have
thought that this was a bit of a double-edged sword for Cowell, whose
c.v. is hardly packed with lasting Pop milestones. It could have
looked less like a radiographic roundup of his achievements than a
shaming revelation of what his 'legacy' amounts to: records that
you'll find going begging every week in carbon sales up and down the
country.) But that's missing the point somewhat, of course: Cowell's
reputation, such as it is, is not based on any musical judgement,
needless to say, but on a commercial eye for short-termism
exploitation. And what's worse about this, is that those he's
exploiting are wide-eyed aware of it. What he is hawking in every
sense, is success, success as endinitself, the Reality Teleology. Old
news, old news, and it wouldn't matter, if there were any ALTERNATIVE.
Yet here it comes: unavoidable, ineluctable, a force of nature.
'Christmas (War is Over)': everyone in the video smiling and
simpering, singing in that fifteenth hand let'sgetiton orgasmic r and
b moan, American vowels and Craaaaaig David boselecta yowls.
(Incidentally, when did that become the Only way to sing?) The Pop
Idol contestants have long made an art out of total insinuate
inability to connect with what they are singing about (anyone remember
the Abba travesties of a couple of years back?), but this is genuinely
stupefying. Needless to say, any trace of Lennon's irony or cynicism
has been scoured (Cowelled) clean the song's gleaming pickedclean
skeleton a monument to Cowellite capitalism's indifferent capacity to
use up and process anything. And has anyone seen The All New Top of
the Pops? It's like the seventh circle of Hell. Tim Cash. Those sf
teeth, digitally enhanced smarm, a 'man' (though I wonder if he really
can be human) devoid of even the hint of personality. A kind of
'professional' poise incarnate. And the All New Top of the Pops as it
seeks to detach itself from the charts, it frees itself up to be a
marketing vehicle for the Industry. It's airless, impenetrable, the
sound of Inevitability, of what has Already Been Decided... Metkoub.
It is written. .... even Sir Lord Penman is back posting. Well, if
that isn't motivation enough to take up the cudgels once again.... ...
just about every group ever seems to have been pronged . Not to sound
like a killjoy or nothing, or like I'm missing the point of this joke,
but is Prog really equivalent to 'Any Producer of a Concept Album'?
Madness' The Rise and Fall, you what? Surely this kind of concept
album a bit like the Kinks' ones, or even The Small Faces' Ogden Nut
Gone Flake have more of a lineage in cockney music hall? Which
provokes the thought, how does rock opera fit into this? Tommy,
Quadrophenia, all that.... Also, I get that The Fall could have been
Prog at certain points in their career .... but Live at the Witch
Trials? Live at the Witch Trials is their least Prog, most snotty,
amphetaminegarage elpee. Hex induction Hour, with the 18 minute (or
whatever) 'Winter' and the ridiculously elongated 'And This Day',
that'd be closer.... Wouldn't that be the influence of Can and VDG,
partly? Can hardly avoid commenting on the John fox inclusion, for
'The Garden', in Synthpop Prog, now can I? Not sure about this one:
I've always thought it to be a noble but flawed attempt to return to a
bucolic pastoral after the urbanoia of 'Metamatic' (actually, it's not
even very 'synth' pop; synthesizers feature, but as part of an
ensemble of 'real' instruments). But, no songs above four minutes...
no absurd timechanges.... no overarching narrative concept....BUT as
for ArtPunk Prog: Ultravox's ha! ha! ha! is a must. Just what is the
relationship between Art Pop/ Rock and Prog any how? As for Prog
Cinema: Lindsay Anderson ('O Lucky Man', 'Brittania Hospital') must be
added to the list.... Now for that absence. Can only echo IP's
comments on laziness (I think Roland Barthes wrote some paean to
laziness, didn't he?) but which I can't celebrate in quite the same
terms, since for me it is a direct consequence of work, its flipside.
THEY'RE making me do something therefore IN MY OWN TIME I'll do
absolutely NOTHING. 'Energy is eternal delight': lethargy is eternal
misery.How can anyone ever disprove the braininthevat theory/the
Matrix theory. It seems impossible to counter it. We only experience
what our body tells us is happening. Electronic pulses: that is all
this reality we experience is. The everexcellent Baal on the Matrix.
Well, as I once remarked, what is interesting about the brain in the
vat theory is the vat not the brain. Contrary to certain Cartesian
readings (which would suggest that subjectivity is what is most real),
the brain in the vat theory implies that subjectivity is a machine
function. The great disappointment of the Matrix is that, in any case,
and, as I've said before, it wouldn't make that much difference
whether you were in it or out of it. I for one would vote to be in the
Matrix what's to gain from fighting your way to the 'truth' except
some poxy 'enlightenment', pointless paranoia, honey melodrama and
tedious, interminable fight scenes? The fact is, you have personal
relationships with people who look exactly as they do in 'reality'.
Compare this with Vanilla Sky: a completely enclosed solipsistic world
in which the lead character only seems to be having relationships with
others. That seems to me a relevant difference, unlike the differences
between the Matrix sunworld and the world outside it. OK, this is said
without seeing the third one. I fell asleep in the second one, which
reinforced my impression that it was like a dream of looking over
someone else's shoulder while they were playing a videogame.
Interrupted by some of the most inept, comic geeks' idea of
'intellectual' dialogue. That scene at the end with the Architect was
toecurlingly embarrassing; as, for a matter of fact, was that 'club'
scene at the start (like the Duran Duran Wild Boys video twenty years
too late, and worse). Wow, I'm angry today. Suffice it to say that I
was as surprised at Baal's admiration of the Matrix trilogy as I was
at Angus' claim that Pulp Fiction was the best film of the nineties.
Don't even start me on Tarantino. Although I don't need to bother.
Since even his admirers couldn't get it up for Kill Bill, it's pretty
obvious that his iconic days are numbered. This just in from Marcus at
Rephlex: "Rephlex are releasing a 4 x 10 inch vinyl set of works by
the bbc radiophonic workshop just in time for Christmas! The 4 x ten
inch vinyl version we are releasing features the members work given
roughly a side per member, except Delia Derbyshire, perhaps the most
celebrated of all the members who gets a whole record to herself for
the first time ever. It brings together tracks from the recently
released radiophonic 1 and 2 cd's ." Wind whistling..... Just in case
there's anyone still out there: believe it or not, to compound the
recent overwork situation, I've actually been ill with that floating
virus which seems to be afflicting most of the British population at
the moment. I haven't given up.... A frightening world is an
interesting one to live in.... Magazine The head of Strategic Air
Command, General Tommy Powers, was famous for laughing off the effects
of nuclear radiation on genetic mutations with the quip: 'Nobody has
yet proved to me two heads aren't better than one.' And then you start
to think about drugs and the bomb and you remember back to all those
is movies where all these kids are doing nuclear drills, the air-raid
siren goes and all these kids get down on their hands and knees and
they hold their arms over their heads. You think: what's going on
here? and it's obvious they're worshipping the bomb, they're like
atomic Muslims, the mushroom has become this Mecca and they're
pointing towards the East. The bomb is mutation and the kids are going
"mutate me, mutate me", "melt me, held me". The plan that he inherited
was, "Mr. President, you just tell us to go to nuclear war and we'll
do the rest." And the plan called for devastating, indiscriminately,
China, Russia, Eastern Europe it was an orgiastic, Wagnerian plan
Really fascinating piece beautifully researched and written by Oliver
at pitta violent on the Cold War. The Cold War and particularly those
moments in the early Sixties when it nearly went thermonuclear hot has
always exercised a grim fascination for me. It's certainly impossible
to imagine the punk canon Joy Division, Foxx, Magazine, Cabaret
Voltaire, Grace Jones without its 'influence', although 'influence' is
too weak a word for the deep level psychic insistence of the Cold War
on that generation. 'Death disco' was it: this was a music that
repudiated pleasure and identified with the non-organic and the fatal.
Their implied worlds were either teetering on the edge of annihilation
(Joy Division's 'Exercise One') or had actually imagined the
unthinkable. Check the way the guitar feedback on the intro to
'Exercise One' resembles pterodactyl (sp?) screeches, almost as if it
were anticipating the stone age to which we were about to be bombed
back. Nothing exposes the redundancy of 'privatized psychonalysis' the
view that the unconscious can be understood in opposition to the
social than the recurring nightmares of total annihilation we all
routinely had back then. But another Freud the Freud of Beyond the
Pleasure Principle and Civilization and its Discontents seems to speak
as the prophet of the Cold War. What we have to come to terms with,
this Freud says, is that as a species we desire destruction and death.
In this sense, we are profoundly and deeply irrational. Yet, in that
familiar paradox Freud makes his own, our drives have their own
ineluctable logics and rationales. Freud's perspicacity here can
easily be apprehended when we consider the cold eagerness with which
Kennedy's military advisors were contemplating their 'orgiastic,
Wagnerian' plans for massive preemptive nuclear strikes. On one level,
their preferred option was purely 'rational', a detached calculation
based upon probabilities and outcomes. On another level but at the
same time it has to be seen as a rationale, the finding of reasons for
a preexisting drive towards total destruction. What can account for
this enthusiasm except a terrible libido, a monstrous desire? And
that's the fascination of the katapunk music. It isn't 'protesting
against' nuclear war, its desires cannon be 'socialized' or humanized;
it is in fact the most socially unacceptable desire possible. The
libido of impersonal death. Death drive pop. Annihilism. I finally got
round to watching my tape (ahem) of Nigel Kneale's The Stone Tape.
What an amazing piece of work. Kneale is cybergothic up to his
eyeballs. His standard move is also to offer a scientific motivation
of the supernatural. I say motivation because this is not a reduction
of the supernatural to the scientific. What became slightly irksome
about Dr Who in the Pertwee phase when it continually 'borrowed' this
move from Kneale was the Doctor's airy waving away of the supernatural
in the name of science. Kneale's method is more subtle. It's true,
Kneale agrees, as science since the enlightenment has maintained there
is no supplementary spiritual substance, but the material world in
which we live is more profoundly alien and strange than we have ever
imagined. (Better to talk of the supernatural than the supernatural in
Kneale's case). And rather than insisting upon the preeminence of the
rational (and therefore also of the human subject alleged to be the
privileged bearer of reason), Kneale shows that an enquiry into the
nature of what the world is like is also inevitably an unravelling of
what we are. In the Stone Tape, a group of scientists take up
residence in a new research facility. It quickly becomes apparent that
the building is haunted: one of their number, a female computer
programmer, is particularly 'sensitive' to the ghost (a servant girl
from the nineteenth century who died in a mysterious fall).
Inevitably, the scientists go from sceptical dismissal to a manic need
to explain and map the phenomenon without much of a pause for breath.
What is particularly interesting about The Stone Tape from the point
of view of our particular corner of the blooms is that it is about a
new recording medium. Kneale's thesis is that hauntings and ghosts are
particularly intense phenomena that are literally recorded by matter,
by the stone of the room. (Hence the 'stone tape' of the title). What
the scientists had been looking for, apparently coincidentally, was a
new, more compact and durable recording medium (the Stone Tape was
incredibly prescient about the shortcomings of magnetic tape). But
what the haunting phenomenon offers is the possibility not only of a
new recording medium, but of a new player: the human nervous system
itself. In their moment of exultant bliss (before the inevitably bleak
denoument), the scientists laugh and joke about the prospect of a
totally wireless communication system: transmissions beamed directly
into your head (like Gibson's cyberspace, but without even the
trodes). Can miniaturisation pass through another threshold such that
this becomes possible? Or is it a question not of miniaturisation at
all but of tuning the stimuli? In the end, of course, it all goes
badly wrong. The scientists' obsessive activity has wiped the tape or
at least wiped away the thing last recorded onto it. Something else,
something more ancient, stirs beneath, terrifying the female computer
programmer into literally falling into the footsteps of the nineteenth
century girl, plunging to her death in a state of total terror. So
what Kneale raises in the end is the breakdown of the distinction
between the player and what is being played. To begin with, it seems
that the ghostly screams are passive and inert, as incapable of
exerting agency as the dry rot that afflicts the haunted room; yet in
the end, it is the human beings who are revealed to be caught in a
terrible compulsion to repeat. It is as if the room the site, it is
eventually implied, of some unimaginably ancient place of sacrifice
solicit the scientists into precipitating yet another death, into
playing out the same old sequence once again. The human players are
themselves part of an aeonsold pattern of senseless repetition. All
recordings are ghosts. But are we really more substantial than they?
Toast and water .... How does that even work? Well, it's really
fantastic to be able to hear Wiley's 'Ground Zero' (courtesy of Matt).
I've had the two versions on constant play since I downloaded them.
The drummers version is especially evocative: a kind of aural tableau,
a slow dissolve between black and white stills of the exposed, charred
skeletons of the twin towers. Fascinating the way the drum programming
on the other version oscillates between step offbeat slinky,
jingoistic scurry and ominous hip hop menace. What is it that the
mournful synth line reminds me of? There's a suggestion, bizarrely
enough of the electrowaltzes of the Stranglers' Men In Black .
(Haven't thought about the Stranglers since Goldie mentioned them back
in the day). Yes, that's It's really got that bad.... No entries for
so long that it the page is literally BLANK.... Well, I've been
denying myself longtime in a bid to stay ahead of work, an
increasingly impossible, Sisyphean labour: the more work I do, the
more I seem to need to do. I was determined to be REALLY ORGANIZED
this college year and not fall into my usual habit of chaos
mismanagement but it's congenital. I just can't stay sorted out. I
HATE ADMINISTRATION... That's partly because I am incapable of doing
it, suffering from a stupefyingly disabling level of absentmindedness.
I tried to write a brief note to a colleague today and I had to make
FIVE ATTEMPTS to do it. Just a few lines... Handwriting anything is
near-impossible for me now... I think I might have attention deficit
disorder.... Work. It's never going to go away. Everyone has to do it.
I know, I know. Doesn't make it any better, does it? I haven't got
much else to talk about at the moment. But I wanted to break
radiosilence, in part because of kind enquiries from Mr Ingram and Mr
Reynolds.Matt's slinky new home: robot . Hyperdub's Steve tells me
that a lengthy interview with none other than Wiley is forthcoming on
Hyperdub. The man will be discussing his love of winter and will
broach the question of those oriental influences. Can't wait. I saw
Steve at Middlesex's University's Capitalism and Philosophy Lab
(organized by the estimable Ray brasier ). I burbled briefly about
Baudrillard's For a Critique of the Political Economy of the Sign ,
and tried to initiate some discussion on the question of mp3's and
sign value. You might remember this being raised here (or at the old
site , if you are being pernickety). Baudrillard's point is that many
traditional analyses of capitalism have left what he calls 'sign
value' out of account. Marx's analysis, for instance, was based solely
on the difference between exchange value (how much a thing costs) and
use value (what it does). According to Baudrillard, more important
than both of these gauges are sign value (the prestige attached to a
particular object). It isn't exchange value, still less use value,
that determines sign value; just the opposite in fact. Things acquire
monetary value on the basis of their prestige, not the other way
around. The mp has limited exchange value (as we all know, there are
sites where you can pay for mp3s, but these are flying in the face of
the general trend towards gratuity). My question was: does it have any
sign value? Baudrillard argues that the level of sign value ascribed
to an object has no relation to the intrinsic qualities of that
object. Rather, sign value is determined by the object's differential
relations to other objects. Baudrillard's example is fashion. If a
miniskirt is deemed 'beautiful', it is not because of any of its own
qualities, but simply because of its difference from the maxiskirt. So
does the mp have sign value? My conjecture was that, lacking the
allegedly supplementary features of the record or the CD (the cover,
even the materiality of the disc itself), reduced to pure
functionality, the mp lacks those elements in which sign value could
be invested. Steve pointed out that the mp is an audio object, and
that there is no reason to assume that only visual objects have sign
value. Others pointed out that an mp collection as a whole could have
prestige. In certain online filesharing communities of course, if your
collection reaches a certain size, you garner extra privileges (a form
of online exchange value). The relation between sign value and the
visual is an interesting one. A record collection can be displayed ,
and the display itself has an aesthetic quality. Yes, in a certain
sense, an mp collection can be displayed but such a collection has a
nonaestheticizable brute functionality. With music, as Steve said,
prestige is acquired not solely or even primarily by being seen to
possess something , but by being seen to have heard it (the journalist
or the blogger) and being heard to have heard it (the DJ). All that
said, I still think that there is something different about the mp3.
This isn't only about its lack of visual presence; there is also the
issue of its lack of tacticity (nothing to touch or hold).  Speaking
of 'Give me a sign....', Pop latest: Britney/ Madonna. I'm with
Spizzazzz on this one. It's Madonna who lets down a really rather
serviceable single. The video has reached such a velocity of
kwickkutting delirium that it is almost nightmarish. Witness that wood
slatted corridor straight out of Welles' The Trial (the scene with
ritornelli the painter). I want this to be a hit. whitney has attained
a tragic, pathetic grandeur over the past year or so (which reached
its apogee with the painful humiliation of her appearance at the
MVA's). Give her a break. The new Kylie is rather good, too. Be much
better if she wasn't singing on it, though. A response to this from
Ccru: To attempt to refute such narratives is to be drawn into a
tedious double game. One either has to embrace an arbitrary and
outrageous cosmic plot (in which everything is being run by the Jews,
Masons, Illuminati, CIA, Microsoft, Satan, cru ), or alternatively
advocate submission to the most mundane construction of quotidian
reality, dismissing the hyperstitional chaos that operates beyond the
screens (cosmological dark matter and dark energy virtual,
imperceptible, unknown). This is why atheism is usually so boring.
Both conspiracy and common sense the normal reality script depend on
the dialectical side of the double game, on reflective twins, belief
and disbelief, because disbelief is merely the negative complement of
belief: cancellation of the provocation, disintensification,
neutralization of stimulus providing a metabolic yawnbreak in the
doublegame. I like the thought of this ... It just gets better and
better, really it does. Philip continues his astonishing run of
form... Sean with one of my favourite lines of recent times: I love
life. I just don't like my own. Crumbling Loaf really should be a
sitcom: one of those typical British inertiacoms, the blocked engine
of which is the fact that the lead character has just enough vision to
be discontented with his lot, but not enough drive to achieve escape
velocity. (And the gender designation is no accident here: it's always
a he, isn't it, whether it be Tony Hancock, Steptoe, Shelley...) The
sad revelation, kept just out of their conscious awareness but
constantly informing it, is that their life that fetid swamp of states
is the way it is because, in some sense, they want it like that, it's
their desire that calls the tune, that returns them to a square one
they profess to loathe. The name 'Crumbling Loaf' is packed with the
pathos and bathos that Sean has combined into his signature mode. It's
loaded with semantic freight: 'loaf' meaning both 'brain' (in the
colloquial 'Use Your loaf') and lethargic ('to loaf' around). The
crumbling loaf in the break-in sandpaperdry and flecked with mould as
a metonymic symbol of the single life (it's always impossible to eat
fresh bread before it goes off when you live on your own). 'Crumbling'
evokes the gradual, barely perceptible but nonetheless unavoidable
sense of decline and disintegration that afflicts us thirtysomething
males every time we cower away from the mirror. The Crumbling Loaf
generation as the new version of Slacker? I've promised a reply to
Simon's Sixties thing for a while, so here goes... No doubt the
Sixties 'itself' was a fabulously variegated decade, full of surprise,
wonder and novelty. This doesn't seem to me to be the issue; the
question is whether it should be allowed to maintain its status as a
temporal anchor, the mythical point to which all subsequent cultural
developments must be traced back. I just don't find this narrative
useful, illuminating or productive; even if, in some sense, it is
'true'. For me, partly for perversity's sake, partly because it
generates new perspectives, I prefer to see the Sixties not as a
Golden Age, but as a precursor to the seventies and eighties. No doubt
this is a matter of aesthetic preference: I just find, for example,
For Your Pleasure and Unknown Pleasures, (is there a theme here maybe
Numan's Pleasure Principle is the third in this triptych?) superior to
anything from the Sixties. The fourteen year old in me, with his video
and electronicssaturated disdain for the cobwebby, monochromeold
newsreel Sixties is still something I can't get past. I'll now grant
that Sixties music is of historical interest, but it'll never affect
me in the same way that seventies and eighties stuff does. As I said
in the early days of kpunk, it's as if Delia Derbyshire had rendered
the whole of the Sixties out of date in advance. Simon's other point
that early seventies Prog can be placed within the Sixties, since the
Sixties (as a cultural epoch) lasted until at least 73 is wellmade,
but couldn't we also make a case for a microperiod lasting from 69 to
75? 69 even the digits of the year are so much more darkly exciting
than anything else in the Sixties.... Simon's positing of Glam as the
great break seems to me much more fecund than kindling the Sixties
flame. I find the idea of Glam as a rejection of the Sixties far more
compelling than seeing it as its continuation. Naturally, rejection
implies some dialectical relation to the previous decade/ episteme/
structure of feeling/ whatever. But that doesn't mean that Glam could
be reduced to an antagonism for the Sixties. Roxy, for example, strike
me as absolutely, irreducibly Seventies, even if they unavoidably have
some biographical connections to the Sixties.  Incidentally, since
we're on Delia and all that, one of the many fascinating things to
emerge from BBC 4's documentary on the BBC Radiophonic Workshop was
the idea that its terminal decline was precipitated by the arrival of
the synthesizer. The mood made the Workshop's bespoke
soundconstruction (sounds generated from found sources; tapes
painstakingly spliced and looped) seem redundant. At the same time,
the mood was unreliable and functionallylimited, provoking sniffy
disdained from the RW. Nevertheless, it was unavoidable, and
apparently produced despair in the members of the workshop.
Fascinating to be reminded how familiar sounds can be rendered
electroalien simply by pitch shifting (achieved by the Workshop's
running at the tape at different speeds). And nice to hear the origin
of the John Craven's Newsround jingle.... No doubt James and Michael
will correct me if I've made factual errors about the RSW. :)
Absolutely no sarcasm intended, I hasten to add. I've learned tons
from their contributions to the Comments boxes!  Another thing ...
Hearing the compact superia album (it's all over in about 37 mintues)
made me think that it's not the Prog era but now in which excess and
indulgence comes as standard. Oh, for a 37 minute album now.... Dear I
recently visited your webster kpunk.blogspot.com/ and I like it very
much. I would very much appreciate a link from your web site to one of
my projects, an adult dvd/video shop. To make this attractive for you
I can offer two links from two different websites, one non erotic and
one erotic site. Both of these web sites have a lot of visitors and
good rankings in the search engines. Please let me know if you are
interested so we can work out the details. Sincerely, Laura Could
things get any more crass? Ages ago in internet time; in real time
about three months I was moaning about TV and films' tendency to
lazily appropriate Pop as a period signifier. Tonight I accidentally
stumbled across BBC2's Big Read (yet another one of those TV charts;
this time of the British public's favourite books) which exemplified a
related syndrome: here songs were yoked to books whose theme or title
they shared. Needless to say, the BBC left no stone turned: nothing
was included unless it was completely, totally Obvious. For example:
The Great Gatsby Bowie's 'Young Americans' Great Expectations Billy
Joel, 'Uptown Girl' 1984 Oakenfold's 'Big Brother theme' Harry Potter
and the Goblet of Fire Guess what? Arthur Brown, 'Fire' See what I
mean? It was so Chris Morris, it's untrue... But, just as you're
looking forward to hearing Kate Bush's Wuthering Heights, guess what
they play? Marilyn Manson's 'The Beautiful People.' The crosslinking
of book to song produced a mutual delibinization in just about every
case. Each song was structurally put in the position of pathetically
deflating the book, familiarising it through ez, unthreatening
reference. Stop it! of the traumatic neurosis and pass on to examine
the method working employed by the mental apparatus in one of
itsearliest normal activitiesI mean in children's play. Beyond the
Pleasure Principle . i know this because yesterday, in a gift shop,
one sighted a child's doll that was actually a Sigmund Freud ACTION
FIGURE. there is not much left. I've got one of those ! Got it for my
birthday! (Thanks, Rob!) I want a Jung figure for it to beat up...
Hey, this logging lark can have its perks. Arrived home from work
yesterday to find two CDs on my doormat: Goblin's superia from Jim and
Transports by Tazartes from Matt . Both outstanding... The Tazartes'
LP is a Lynchesque dream record, a delirium wash of backwards speech,
muslim prayer wail, church bells, drones, primitive drum machines and
protosynth. You're reminded, fleetingly, of Stockhausen's Hymnen,
Neubauten, early Cabaret Voltaire, Mark Stewart circa As the Veneer,
even Funkadelic's Maggot Brain. Transports ought to be fragmentary and
dissipated, a haphazard juxtafest of incongruous elements, but it's
just the opposite. It has a compelling consistency lacking in the
dessicated, academic doodling of so much of today's wiretaps
experimentalism. You want to keep listening, and when it finishes, you
press 'play' again. Transports is at the darker pole of uneasy
listening, queasy listening, which is genuinely ambient in that it
brings into play the sounds of the listening environment. It's like a
dream in that transient sounds becomes incorporated into the
experience. Matt thought I'd like it, and I do. In its mood, the
Goblin record is not so far from Transports. It's everything one hoped
Prog could be, but, in my limited exposure to it, seldom is. Goblin
have what most Prog I've heard doesn't: a depthplumbing bottom end, a
bass that coils and rears like a giant cobra. (Incidentally, what much
Prog has in common with Regressive Rock is a disdain for, or
indifference towards, rhythm.) superia isn't some steroidbloated
inflation of rock, a prolongation of rock by other means. The
instrumentation and the mixing don't reflect rock's trad priorities.
Yes, there are guitars, but not as lead instruments. In fact there
aren't really lead instruments of any kind here. Woozy kettle drums,
rasping semiaudible whispers, tranceinducing percussion, multitracked
chants, swooping moogs: the first side is a masterpiece of sustained
threat, mustering all the tension that Prog typically throws away in
its ostentatious determination to showcase virtuosity. Thanks, chaps.
... with possibly the best post ever on one of the best blows around,
It's All in Your Mind's Philip , whom I thought might have taken to
squatting in kpunk's comments boxes. He's more than welcome, of
course: but it's great to see him back on his home turf. The Kneale
Tapes , BBC Four (Thanx to Michael for the heads up). The most
haunting moments in BBC Four's retromentary on Nigel Kneale were
reconstructions of his lost television play The Road. Like many of
Kneale's fictions, The Road was a new twist on the ghost story. All
ghost stories are about time travel. In the standard version, of
course, they are about the past invading the present; or about the
present being captured by the past.The Road cunningly reversed this.
Set in 1771, it was about spectres of/ from the future, reverberations
from an event yet to occur. The sirens and panicked screams and car
noises that disturb the villagers of the eighteenth century were the
sounds of people fleeing that which can never be escaped: their own
destiny, planetary ground zero, year zero, total nuclear annihilation.
The Road , like much of the BBC's output in those days, was not
preserved. There's something awfully poignant about the thought of a
ghost story about the future being lost to that very future, like one
of the burned films in Auster's Book of Illusions. TV then, everything
performed live, flared with the intensity of the modernist moment ,
attended to in rapt fixation by an audience not yet multichannel
splintered, hanging onto every syllable of a this self-raising text,
because not yet lulled into indifference by the prospect of endless
reruns (dramas were not repeated, then, they were restaged, like
theatre). No now in Postmodern time; the videocassette, that which is
preserved in advance, that which can be watched at any time (and so is
never watched) doesn't record television, it transforms it. Fatality,
the lure of total quiescence, the human appetite for
(auto)destruction; even before Ballard, Kneale brought Freud to bear
on SF. No, not the superegoegoid (SpockKirkBones) triad of Star Trek's
cuddly psychodrama ; Kneale's Freud was the dark magus of Beyond the
Pleasure Principle , the pitiless explorer of the death drive's
intensive hydraulics. It's in Beyond the Pleasure Principle that Freud
reminds us that, in trauma, time breaks down. No time at all in the
unconscious, with its terrible compulsions to repeat, its circuitous
journey back to where and when it had never left. What we most want is
not to be, never to have been. What we most are is alien. Perhaps the
most arresting pages in Marcus' Lipstick Traces are devoted to
Hammer's version of Kneale's Quatermass and the Pit. As you read
Marcus retelling Kneale's masterpiece, you wonder what all this has to
do with what Lipstick Traces is supposed to be talking about, whilst
knowing, really, that nothing could be more relevant to punk than
Kneale's pyschogeologic horror story. Kneale's revelation that human
beings are the byproduct of an alien breeding experiment, that deep
within us is a Martian, burning with the desire to indiscriminately
destroy others, yes but ultimately, itself is the uncomfortable punk
gnosis. Kneale's presentiments can be sold as moral warnings, flag-
waving for Eros against khanates witness Bernard Quatermass' grim
vision of earth becoming 'the Martians' second dead planet', if we do
not learn to rein in the Martian within us. Yet Kneale has already
deconstructed the opposition between Eros and Thanatos, human and
Martian: unravel the human, unravel Eros, and you discover that both
are only folds within the body of inorganic Thanatos. Kneale's SF,
like Ballard's disaster novels of the early 60s, is compelled to
endlessly rehearse apocalypse, to imagine civilization in meltdown.
Don't be fooled: the moral messages are what libido (=Thanatos) needs
in order to simultaneously mask and show itself. If you are
continually repeating something, it's because you want it. Like the
rest of us, Kneale can't help desiring London's devastation. The
Quatermass serials of the Fifties and Sixties were too early for me;
I've only seen the Hammer film versions. The 1979 return (on ITV) with
John Mills was my Quatermass, its images of England in anomie, civil
society disintegrating, New Age travellers following ley-lines leading
to their own annihilation (Bomb Culture, oh yes) are now mixed in my
mind with those on the covers of the darkheart post-punk LPs.
Quatermass brought the implied world of Killing Joke, Cabaret Voltaire
and subway Army apocalypsegraffiti walls, bombed-out buildings,
barricaded streets to unlife. Unfortunately, I fell asleep during what
looked like the excellent Stone Tapes . I don't suppose it's being
repeated is it, Michael? Tim's comments below (on the United Response
post) comparing football to music remind me of something Simon wrote
ages ago where he made an analogy between Can and the Total Football
of the Dutch team. What a fabulously suggestive parallel; I've never
been able to think of Can and that classic Dutch side in quite the
same way since. The elegant, almost telepathic interplay, the non-
organic fluency and fluidity, the rhizomichaos of the group mind....
You see, you don't know whether I'm talking about Can or the Dutch, do
you? Most of the action on punk is being generated in the comments
boxes at the moment, and, naturally, I enjoy that. It's funny how the
most offhand remarks generate the most feedback. Witness the British
Sea Power post (12 comments) and the United Response post (12 comments
and counting). The United Response post presents me (and anyone else
who wants to play) with a diabolic temptation: scurry down the rabbit
hole of speculation about who would win, Man U or England, and you're
in danger of never returning. I suppose it's partly the impossibility
of these nevermore realised scenarios that draws us to worry on at
them. I can imagine Mo tutting censoriously about silly laddish
obsessing, and half of me agrees, yet our capacity to indulge in these
pointless derives and divertissements, to invest trivia with weight
and significance, is what is most charming about the male of the
species. It's a genuine existential triumph, almost heroic. On either
side of this pleasant, seemingly harmless leisure pursuit lurk two
dangers: absurdity and atrocity. The first is personified by Alan
Partridge, earnestly debating who would win in a fight between Sean
Connery's Bond and Roger Moore's; the second by a Fundamentalist
dogmatism, a passion commitment to die and/ or kill in the name of
these phantom commitments, these how manyangelscandanceontheheadofapin
conjectures. I suppose the appeal of Nick Hornby though it's not an
appeal I have ever succumbed to is that he cheerily sets up camp
between these two extremes: obsessive and fixated, but self-aware
enough to avoid either bathos or fascism. I have more of a weakness
for Danny Baker , whose breakfast shows on BBC Radio London (which my
crappy little clock radio can pick up) are delightfully and genuinely
anarchic: unscripted, unplanned, interrupted only by the station's de
rigour News and Weather slots (which, like the nagging awareness in a
dream that you will awake, are irritating emissaries from the Real
World which you must soon reenter), the show is held together by the
charismatic sorcery and joyful force of Baker's crackerbarrel
personality. Baker is the Borges of breakfast, a connoisseur and
inventor of unlikely taxonomies: famous Doctors, celebrity teeth, the
greatest ad slogans ever , fictional characters who wear threequarter
length trousers, the strange routines of other families (tiny details
which suddenly reveal that Other People's Houses are really Other
Worlds), Baker lures you into fighting on these categories that you
couldn't even have dreamt of. His mind tirelessly pursues these
nontopics, which have nothing in common with each other apart from the
fact that they are all 'objectively' of no possible importance. The
carnival king of a world turned upside down, Baker, thankfully, makes
you forget what's really important. He is genuinely Surrealist in a
way that the actual Surrealists too po-faced and programmatic seldom
were, serious about the silly. It's the seriousness that Nietzsche
recommended: the seriousness of the child at play. What you're
suddenly aware of, when you're cast out of Baker's wonderland, is the
insufferable adult weight of the rest of the culture, with its
neurotic fauxsophistication and prurience. There's not a trace of
irony, not a shred of meself consciousness, in Baker's curatorial
craziness. This is radio as a Situationist derrive, wandering without
premeditated purpose through London's unconscious. The only guiding
thread through this outhouse London labyrinth is Baker's enthusiasm.
Enthusiasm, enthusiasm: enthusiasm is obsession gone liquid, its
calcified, one-eyed fixity transformed into a foaming, teeming froth.
Exactly what you need in a morning. I hate the word 'Thursday' now.
Because if I see it at the top of the Pillbox I know there have been
no updates. Like Miss Havisham's stopped clock, that 'Thursday' means
Time has frozen at the Pillbox. Seeing that 'Thursday' is like
arriving at an old friend's house and finding entrance barred by a
locked wrought-iron gate. All we know is that they have gone but where
to? And will they ever return? Responses from Tim on Freaky Trigger's
sport l thread and Scott to my KapitalUnited piece.Have to disagree
with Tim about one thing, though: I reckon England would cream Man U.
That's partly what's so amusing about Kurt's position: its lofty
assumptions about United's status have more to do with their
shareprice than their current achievements on the pitch. United are
getting no closer to winning the Champions League; the idea that they
would win the World Cup is ridiculous. Couple of cracking posts from
Nik Gutterbreakz on Suicide and Hall and Oates. Sometimes 'really not
understanding' can be just the right idea ... Mr Craner's new one,
cittaviolenta , as deliriously compelling as ever: 'Hell's Answer to
the History Channel', CNN for the unconscious.... It's back thanks to
perfect angel, Mr Michael Carr. Sadly the comments are unrecoverable.
Well, we agree on one thing. Gabriel's 'Sledgehammer' was the end of
something. But of what, precisely? If I was to date the utter end of
"the Sixties" in music terms to a single record it might be Peter
Gabriel's "Sledgehammer". Those albums around "Games Without Frontier"
and "Shock The Money" were his "postpunk" efforts (paranoia,
alienation, no cymbals on the drums). "Sledgehammer" is him selling
out to the Eighties, that burnished airless Go West beigefunk sound.
Is there a record more emblematic of the Eighties the post 82 80s, the
post post-punk is than that ? The bright and breezy, brassy, stodgy
Eighties 'Soul' sound horribly like Go West that awful,
playedeveryfiveminutes, conspicuously Expensive video.... It's like
being trapped in a shopping mall on Saturday afternoon. Forever. In
uninteresting boston House at World's End , Robin Carmody develops
Simon's argument, pointing out that " 'Sledgehammer' and 'Invisible
Touch' were consecutive US No1's around the time of Andrew and
Fergie's wedding." By then, Robin avers, it became evident that High
Tory Englishness was no protection against US capitalism. Mention of
'Invisible Touch' can't help but bring to mind Patrick Bateman in
American Psycho. In perhaps the most hilarious scene in the movie,
Bateman US consumercapitalism personified perfectly ventriloquizes the
Eighties' revisionist take on Genesis' career: 'I've been a big
Genesis fan ever since the release of their 1980 album, Duke. Before
that, I really didn't understand any of their work. Too artsy, too
intellectual. It was on Duke where, uh, Phil Collins' presence became
more apparent. I think Invisible Touch was the group's undisputed
masterpiece. It's an epic meditation on intangibility. At the same
time, it deepens and enriches the meaning of the preceding three
albums... Listen to the brilliant ensemble playing of Banks, Collins
and Rutherford. You can practically hear every nuance of every
instrument. ... The peak of professionalism. ... Take the lyrics to
Land of Confusion. In this song, Phil Collins addresses the problems
of abusive political authority. In Too Deep is the most moving pop
song of the 1980s, about monogamy and commitment. The song is
extremely uplifting. Their lyrics are as positive and affirmative as,
uh, anything I've heard in rock. ... Phil Collins' solo career seems
to be more commercial and therefore more satisfying, in a narrower
way. Especially songs like In the Air Tonight and, uh, Against All
Odds. ... But I also think Phil Collins works best within the confines
of the group, than as a solo artist, and I stress the word artist.
This is Sussudio, a great, great song, a personal favorite.' (But,
like Gabriel's 'Melt' album, [the one which includes 'Games Without
Frontiers' etc.], wasn't 'In the Air Tonight' Collins' take on
Neuwave?) Certainly, what fascinates about the early Genesis is the
quaint Olde Worlde Englishness of their record covers. Take the
Nursery crime sleeve (see above), with its sinister Lewis carol
croquet lawn and suggestion of a fairytale Albion of pantomimegonebad
Punch and Judy menace. I'm not sure I've heard this one, to be honest,
but the gabriela Genesis I have heard falls disappointingly short of
the English CanplusSpirit of Edenplus Edward Lear plus medieval
carnival perverse pastoral epic I idly imagined. Gabriel's vision and
voice then that quasihysterical angloquaver were the saving graces but
really the band are so poor, so lacking in imagination and deftness,
that the end result is not the nobly deluded, elephantine absurdity
one always associates with Prog, but a plodding, workmanlike
competence. Like most Prog I've heard, Genesis' problem is not self-
indulgent excess; it's dullness. Listening to the two Gabriel Genesis
tapes I have (borrowed long ago from my Prog correspondent, Bruce),
what strikes me about their music is its lack of nuance. It is either
Quiet or Loud no middle ground, no eddying flow or ebbing
undercurrents, just a stuttering study in jerky contrast. Isn't that
jabbing masculine jerkiness, that antiplateau jumpiness, what is so
much of a turnoff about Prog? Genesis' sound was English by default
still Blues/ r and rbased, it was English only in the sense that it
was a specifically English take on American forms, not in the sense
that it evoked England. What I've heard of Gabriel's solo stuff is
much more intriguingly English than Genesis. I've always found
'Solsbury Hill', for instance, movingly evocative of the rural English
experience: the sharpness of clear air, that hollow, mossy feeling of
earth beneath the feet, the town lights scattered below. In any case,
if gabriela Genesis were a failed attempt to produce a convincingly
English rock sound, Collinsera Genesis and post'Sledgehammer' Gabriel
were an achieved attempt at simulating and indeed outdoing US AOR.
Robin is right; by then, there is not a trace of English public school
resistance to American hegemony. They are part of the programme. But
what is it that 'Sledgehammer' ends? I'll come back to that.
Accidentally deleted the Genesis/ Gabriel post, along with the
comments. How stupid was that? Apologies to everyone who took the
trouble to make a comment. A number of our recent discussion topics
coalesced in a quite astonishing piece today in the Observer on the
Man U vs England standoff. Remember that discussion a while back
between punk and blissblog on territoriality and capital, when Simon
was positioning Grime's ultralocality as a kind of dirty protest
against the clean sheen of a deracinated Global Kapital? Remember what
following Robin Carmody I was saying yesterday about Eighties AOR
signalling that a certain version/ vision of Englishness had
capitulated to the $? Well, here is one Richard Kurt, deputy editor of
the Red Issue magazine: 'The fundamental thing is that Manchester
United see themselves as an international, multinational club, not a
provincial city club. We are a globally visited brand. We're not about
England, but about the world. Nationality doesn't matter.' Until
recently, the FA was as hierarchically classstratified as the House of
Lords I think I'm right in saying that members of the admiralty used
to sit on important committees as a matter of course. The
confrontation this week between the FA and United, with the England
players caught, somewhat ingloriously, in between, was a far off
between a multinational plc and a national institution, with the
national institution cast in the role of stickinthemud resisters to
Modernization. Alex Ferguson occupies an ambivalent position here.
This week, he found himself, for once, aligned with the board and the
plc. Yet Ferguson whose style is routinely contrasted not only with
that of the coolly analytic Eriksson, but also with that of the
similarly phlegmatic arlene wagner is famously the last bastion of an
'archaic' British version of management, in which the club is run not
as the jewelinthecrown of a corporate folio, but as a personal
fiefdom. The professorial, professionalclass Wenger and Eriksson
softly spoken, polite, sensitive are well-heeled representatives of
the European bourgeoisie. The irascible Ferguson, meanwhile, prides
himself on his upstart status as a former Clydeside shop steward made
good. The point is to make it without becoming one of Them. In that
respect, one of the many striking things about Kurt's comments is
their strange disconnection from the national makeup of the United
team. Unlike that of chief rivals, Arsenal, the backbone of the United
squad is predominantly English. The hapless Ferdinand, the Neville
brothers, Scholes, Butt; it's the likes of Van Nistelrooy and
Solksjaer who are the exceptions in a squad that has, for the most
part, been put together in the old-fashioned way, through careful
husbandry of homegrown talent. Van Nistelrooy is one of the few
foreign big names Ferguson has bought in and retained. Ferguson's
experiment with the slowburn Latin sorcery of 'little witch' Juan
Sebastian vernon was prematurely terminated, reinforcing United's
essential Englishness. Scholes, Butt, their very names are redolent of
the prosaic, pragmatic angloproletarianism Ferguson favours. The
resolutely unglamorous Phil Neville who looks like he should be
cringing about in an Alan Bennett play rather than representing a
'globallyvisioned brand' is perhaps the most authentic face of
Ferguson's United. Ferguson's sale of Beckham, after all, was
something of a thumbing of the nose at the 'globally visited brand'
cultivated by the plc. peckham was the only United player the only
footballer with genuinely global appeal; exactly the kind of asset a
global brand would want to hold onto. peckham whose background is of
course as working class as they come had nevertheless become
associated with an aspirational cosmopolitan classlessness subtly at
odds with Ferguson's vision of success as class revenge. Be
successful, but don't forget who you are, and don't letthemforget who
you are. In effect, then, there are three forces in tension here, in a
plot of Shakespearian intrigue: Ferguson's United, which far from
being impersonally cosmopolitan, is made in the manager's image, a
'Family', as another Observer report had it; the United plc, whose
interests, as Ferguson is well aware, are only contingently coincident
with his own; and the FA. Little of this emerges in Kurt's picture,
which slides Ferguson's United with the plc. One would expect a
corporate lackey to spout the kind of bland brandspeak Kurt happily
spools out on behalf of the board. It's quite another thing to hear a
fan toe the party line , chillingly and appallingly reminiscent of
those sad call centre employees interviewed by the aghast marcus Howe
a year or so back in his memorable documentary, who unquestioningly
subordinated themselves to the sinister smiling corporate ethos of the
Egg online bank. Kurt's comments have very little relevance to the
United team, but everything to do with how a certain type of United
fan sees themselves. 'At Leicester two weeks ago there were six or
seven songs particularly Are You England in Disguise? and the
Leicester fans reacted strongly. Leicester is an Englandsupporting
city and that's the sort of people flagofStGeorgewaving, Little
England, Sun reading people that we want to wind up. We'd sing them at
West Ham, Leeds, Newcastle, places like that. It is political, but
it's also sophisticated. I'm quite proud of it.' The fit between a
left-liberal social agenda, antinationalism and procapitalism is, it
would seem, complete. Locality Leicester! is equated with a
territoriality that is unreflective, 'unsophisticated' and fascistic .
(Leicester is in fact is an ethnicallydiverse city, home to much Desi
beats). The alleged sophistication of Kurt's United fan is, in his
account, a consequence of their informed consumption. Leicester fans
support Leicester dullards that they are just because they were born
there. But United fans have selected United in the same way that a
discriminating palate might settle upon a vintage wine, their choice
reflecting an exercise of informed judgement rather than an
instinctual atavism. On the one hand, we are led to believe, we have
the stubbornly archaic, precapitalistic territoralities of the local
community team and the metalocal National team; on the other hand, the
brave new world of the ethnicallydiverse, ChampionsLeaguepursuing,
Kapital Eutopia, in which national rivalry is a thing of the past.
Incidentally, I wonder where Mr Kurt comes from? Too easy to equate
locality and localism with fascism, and internationalism with
'sophistication.' As Simon's analysis of Grime has shown, such a
simple binary can hardly be adequate. The seedier side of Kapital has
come out in the other big football story this week. Whatever the truth
of this particular story, it's clear that many footballers are now,
literally, Kapital's Id running wild, a kind of personification of its
wonttakenoforanswer voraciousness. The combination of fabulous wealth,
alcohol and male hormones have produced a lawless libidinal
monstrosity, a breed of young man as casually convinced of their
immunity from prosecution as were medieval princes. Forget Kurt's
corporate brochure: that scene in the hotel bedroom is the grim
reality of contemporary Kapital, a heady brew of seduction, desire and
brutality. If it wants you, its got you. No matter what.
"Opportunities to experience Moverstyle gloomcore through a big system
in the midst of a headstrong throng of drugfucked margrave
zombiewarriors stomping til the crack of dawn and beyond do not come
along too often these days, I would go if I were you! "Up for it boys
? (think of the content absorbing opportunities) I feel a rush just
thinking about it ?Suspiria is amazing, all sinister whimsy, toy
keyboards, whispering voices and kettle drums, I'll send anyone a
copy. Well, I say a hearty yes to both offers. Anyone else for the
gloomcore? Not Luka's scene I suppose, but Ingram, this must be one
for you? And Kilroy, what do you say? 'I have come to the conclusion,
after a long period of arduous research, that other people, that is,
everyone other than me, must spend most of their domestic time
clearing up and cleaning their houses. Either that, or they cleared up
once and then they never did anything.' Crumbling Loaf (permalinx
screwed, so can't link directly to the post; scroll down, it's the
September with entry). Yes! It struck me that one of the most
subversive things about Fight Club was that it showed: a dirty house.
Something one almost never sees on TV: no matter how supposedly
'gritty' the drama, everyone's house is not only sparklingly clean, it
is also disturbingly tidy. Lack of cleanliness is so socially
unacceptable it's not even presentable . I've been wanting to respond
to this post of Geeta's for a while now. greta is calling for a full-
blown New Pop revival, and decries the arid 'artiness' of much
microhouse. While, naturally, I concur with Geeta's drift, I'd quibble
a little, perhaps pedantically, with her terms. I'd say that what
bedevils Pop now is its lack of artiness. There's a surfeit of
wastefulness in certain genres, for sure, but I wonder if that isn't
something they share with New Pop. Perhaps this illustrates kpunk's
deviation from the gospel according to Popism. New Pop may have been
the moment where Pop ceased to wear its Art on its sleeve. At a
certain point, New Pop and necromancer could appear all but
indistinguishable. Too crass and simplistic to say that New Pop
repudiated Artiness, but its play with the refurbished signifiers of
'simple Pop pleasure' militated against Art Pop's complications ,
which it sublimated or, better, superlimatedinto the illusion of pure
surface. Nothing illustrates this more than the group which partly
prompted Geeta's musings, ABC. Despite being a fan at the time ABC
were the first band I saw live I find them almost listenable now. Like
most of Horn's productions monumentally 'impressive' to exactly the
same degree that they are involving (and for exactly the same reasons)
ABC leave me cold. ABC are not Art Pop, but Designer Pop something
that could be said of most of Horn's work, actually . Fry's fastidious
connoisseurship fitted naturally with Horn's affectless, dispassionate
sound construction. The Lexicon of Love was a metaplastic album in
that it eschewed the modish and the modernist in favour of the
'timeless': an album that, although it was composed of nothing but
simulations of the past, was utterly disengaged from history. The
obvious contrast is with Japan, the last of the Art Popsters. Unlike
ABC, Japan were modernists. No attempt to (re)capitulate (to) some
notion of the Pop classic. They pushed on Sons of Pioneers
dissatisfied with anything that wasn't novel. I've bemoaned Sylvian's
subsequent lapse into Taste before. What kept Taste at bay in Japan
was the spectre of Glam, which was still something to be negotiated
with, even at the end. Glam is antipasto incarnate, a vulgar sublime
refusal of beauty's proportion as much as it is a rejection of the
everyday's drabness. Glam's dressing-up was never an aspiration to
attain Classic Style. On the contrary, in fact, it was always an
unsettling of perfect form, a trash apotheosis. (In that respect Eno,
the fly in the ointment, might have been more Glam than Ferry, who was
always prone to conspicuous displays of Taste.) > They're fucking
rough, those Pop Idol contestants aren't they? Chilling parable here
from the Lukmeister. A coldly autumnal anecdote, brought to life by
Luke's unfailing ability to make banality (of evil) crackle with
poetry. And they say the blogosphere's dead. Now it's mackin Frampton
. Everything I know about him which is very little I gleaned from the
Simpsons. Thanks for the link, though, Nick. Bear in mind that there's
loads of indulgent wank in these records. Still, better indulgent wank
than British Sea Power.Better anything than British Sea Power.
Actually, wasn't it the anaemic, resolutely nonindulgent tedium of
'regressive rock' (Reynolds) that led to the partial rehabilitation of
Prog. On the grounds that like, it might have been bad, but nothing
can be as bad as this. (There will be a response to Simon's Sixties
thing....) Even though Scott has said it all. Homegrown music is more
exciting than at any time since Britpop. That exciting, eh? Three
words: British Sea Power. Yep. That exciting. J. G. Ballard season ,
BBC Four Like his admirer Jean Baudrillard, Ballard has for a long
time resembled a rogue AI, repermutating the same few themes ad
infinitum, occasionally adding a sprinkling of contemporary detail to
freshen up a limited repertoire of fixations. Fixations, fixations.
Appropriate, since, after all, Ballard's obsession is .... obsession.
In the BBC Four Profile nothing new here, the old man gamely and
tirelessly going over his favourite riffs, once again Ballard repeated
one of his familiar, but still powerfully sobering observations.
People often comment on how extreme his early life was, Ballard said.
Yet, far from being extreme, that early life beset by hunger, fear,
war and the constant threat of death is the default condition for most
human beings on the planet, now and in every previous century. It is
the comfortable life of the Western suburbanites which is in every way
the planetary exception. Thus Home , BBC Four's brilliant adaptation
of Ballard's short story The Enormous Space . Home is the kind of
thing the BBC used to excel at: drama that was genuinely, unsettling
weird without being insufferably, unmatchable experimental. Not that
Home has much hope of appealing to popular taste stuck away on BBC
Four, of course. A sign of the times. Home revealed itself to be a
perverse cousin of the suburban dropout situation comedy, The Good
Life or The Fall and Rise of Reginald Perrin spliced with Polanski's
Repulsion. (No surprise to see director Richard CurtonSmith
namechecking polanski as an influence).Anthony Sher was superbly,
charmingly unhinged as Gerald Ballantyne, an accident victim who,
instead of returning to work after his convalescence, decides to
embark upon an experiment. 'Decides' is no doubt too active a word; in
every respect the typical Ballard character, Gerry discovers rather
than initiates, finds himself drawn into a logic he is compelled to
investigate. (In many ways a faithful Freudian, Ballard has no doubt
that obsession always has/ is a logic.) The experiment, it turns out,
has a simple premise. Gerry will stay indoors, indefinitely, living
off the supplies of his well-stocked larder and freezer until... until
what? Well, that is what the experiment will establish. Can he survive
by 'using his front door as a weapon'? What unfolds is the descent
into the maelstrom Ballard has explored since High Rise and Concrete
Island , a quest to the outer edges of the human that follows a well-
defined sequence, whose stages can be readily enumerated: A letting go
of the old identity . This is given up easily. Ballard's twist on the
disaster novel as far back as The Drowned World lay in the readiness
of his characters to embrace rather than resist the new conditions
which catastrophe had visited upon them. Ever since High Rise ,
Ballard has seen characters going one-step further, actually
initiating disaster as a revolt, not so much against conformity, as
against air-conditioned comfort. Here, Gerry burns all his
correspondence, his photographs, then his birthcertificate and in the
most sacrilegious act of all, which made mortified my Protestant soul
his money. The loosening of the hold of civilization [Bataille phase]
Ballard is endlessly rewriting Civilization and its Discontents , and
his fictions are attempts to imagine a libidinal utopia in which the
payoff between survival and repression spelled out by Freud's mordant
pessimism is somehow circumvented. The return to savagery, even the
experiencing of raw hunger pangs, are eagerly savoured opportunities
to relax civilization's impulse control and neutralizing of affect.In
Home, when Gerry's conventional food supplies are running low, he
turns first to the flowers in his garden and then to his neighbours'
pets. The scene in which Gerry's neighbour questions him in that
middle class ever so slightly insinuating way about the disappearance
of his dog 'Mr Fred' and his wife's cat is a masterpiece of grisly
comedy. 'Perhaps they've eloped,' Sher gibbers, by then constantly on
the edge of all but illegible hysteria. Laughter, a strange, snorting,
sniffling chortle that he can barely contain: it is that laughter
which signals, more than anything else, that Gerald has left polite
society, never to return. The exploration of the transcendental beyond
[Kant/Blake phase] I mean transcendental in its strict Kantian sense,
of course. Ballard likes to refer to this as his exploration of inner
space, but I have always found this to be a profoundly misleading
description. Much more than astronauts floating in empirical space, it
is the 'Outer' which Ballard's suburban cosmonauts investigate: what
they confront is time and space themselves, as preconditions of all
perceptions and experiences, and what their explorations open up is an
intensive zone beyond outside standard perceptual thresholds . Hence
Home becomes an aberrant version of The Incredible Shrinking Man . Cut
off from the world beyond his door I refuse to call it the outside
world Gerry's sense of space massively expands. 'The rooms are getting
bigger.' The attic becomes an antarctic 'white world' of blank,
freezerburning vastness, the irruption of the transcendental outside
into the empirical interior of the house, now a very cosmos, teeming
with texture and previously unsuspected detail. 'I feel like an
explorer, or an astronaut.' CurtonSmith's use of the videodiary format
gave the film a queasy intimacy and a suitably unheimlich relation to
Pop TV Now, something underscored by Gerry's sign-off remarks about
undertaking the 'ultimate home makeover.' Yes, that's one way to make
the most of your space. The man whose head expanded. 'Are you on
drugs, Gerald?' And selfdenial, starving, the withdrawal from company,
it's all very topical. I wonder I hope something geraldine is going on
in David Blaine's head right now. Meme with his version of the prolog
pantheon: KPunk: King Crimson (mucho erudition around a solid rhythmic
base. But any more Dr fucking Who and you're The Enid, got it?) The
Enid it is then... :) AfroFuturism = Black Prog kodak shun = Yes fan
punk joins the chorus of approval for the truly excellent tulu . Wish
he/she'd break up her paragraphs a bit, though. What's I Feel Love in
the prolog stakes? Rush? Any suggestions, Angus? And A Time For Fear?
I reckon the blow phenomenon is now entering its own early 1970s. If
that means we're out of the Sixties, great! Speaking of the early 70s,
great old-style (in every good way) Wire piece on Miles' Jack Johnson
Sessions in the current issue, for those who ain't seen it. (And Ian's
round up of the Japan reissues. But when is Ian going to reappear?)
punk = peter hamill Funnily enough, I spent a while on livewire in the
summer trying to track down dog and hamill stuff. I liked what I
heard, but didn't know where to begin really. (And livewire is shit).
Anyone got any suggestions about what is the best place to start? no,
I have the pallor of the Lower Middle Class, the self defeating
approach to life, the belief it stops here with job with lifelessness.
I don't know why they have an illness called Depression. That's just
being Lower Middle Class isn't it? The intelligence but not the
confidence to express it, the rising anger that rarely erupts. From
Sean's blog, Crumbling Loaf . Crumbling Loaf has made an art of too
closetothebone, painfully funny, funnily painful posts. Nothing much
happens, over and over again, forever. The real secret life of a
generation of Sad not Lad males, dissolute unable to focus on any
clear goals, but unable to relinquish the ghost of ambition, the
desire to do something but what? else. I must go on, I can't go on,
you know the drill. The tantalizing feeling of waiting for a train
that left years ago, of waiting interminably when you know you should
have arrived long ago. Crumbling Loaf is like the interior monologues
of the characters in Peep Show , (sample from Friday's episode, :
[Mark wandering around the supermarket] 'Life is full of pain,
desolation, why do we pretend otherwise? [Spots a tin on special
offer] Ooooh, look, 33% off...)' The lurching between a total
existential void and the comforting lure of trivia Crumbling Loaf
renders that horribly familiar experience all-too vividly. It's a bit
mad living in the environs of London without a decent radio. I'm
getting increasingly frustrated being turned onto all this stuff (a)
you can only hear on the pirates or (b) for eight quid a throw or (c)
on mp3. (Having a Mac means downloading ain't as easily as it could
be, too, btw). Especially keen to hear Simon's 'orientalist hardcore
bliss' and all this colderthancold grime silver dollar circle is
chatting about. Bought Deuce online on Simon's recommendation
superquick and efficient service, payment via paypal, arrives before
you can say Jack Robinson but, at least as far as the free CD goes, it
seems like it was the wrong issue (as Simon admitted). I'm with Simon
and Luka on this: outside garage (Plasticman et al) doesn't cut it for
me. There's something d and demolish about it. It's an antiplateau:
instead of not wanting it to stop, you're forever waiting for it to
start. It isles , like the engine of a car stuck in a traffic
tailback.Croydon Techno , with all of the impersonality of Techno, but
none of its sheen or gleam: concretegrey, asphalt dull, subway
anonymous. Somewhat superfluous to recommend going to TWANBOC this
week. Because you've been already been there, seen the movie, got the
Tshirt. Right? Jess really excels himself here, in his evocation/
evisceration of two videos we've also skewered at kpunk, though much
less eloquently. Check his description of beyond as a 'Jim Rose Circus
sideshow freak with detachable joints, a writhing horror of multiple
motors and gears all operating independently of each other for full
booty impact. She may have an ass like a horse, but here she looks
like a bunch of sewn together doll parts, like Sally from The
Nightmare Before Christmas.' And on Christina: 'Xtina herself seems to
find new was every tme she appears on TV these days to somehow not be
naked and yet be wearing next to nothing and YET instead of just
wearing like underwear of a bikini she finds the most outlandish ways
to straddle (pun sadly intended I'm afraid) the line between dressed
and naked (cf. the DaisyDukeswithnosides here.)' Could he be more
right? This connects, in my mind at least, with some remarks of
Angus': 'as cizek says apropos "The Talented Mr Ripley" in a recent lb
piece, a character with no sexuality is actually a lot harder for
contemporary audiences to assimilate than one with a perverse but
legible sexuality.' In our new Fifties, omnisexuality is drably de
rigeur, hypernormalizing.... Well, since Doctor Who posts are clearly
the punk equivalent of the Sun putting Kylie's arse on the cover... 21
comments on REGENERATION TIME AGAIN (and counting).... I propose a
punk parlour game to run alongside the one started on Feel Love. We've
started thinking there about lines in the sand which the new version
SHOULD NOT cross i.e. no love interest for the doctor, no TARDIS
redesign, no floating Daleks (!!) I propose thinking here about things
which the new version SHOULD include. My first suggestion is that the
focus should be on time rather than space. And by time, I don't just
mean historical stories, though I'd like to see more of those, or,
worse, stories about the future (never convincing somehow: the most
insuperable problem is fashion). No: I mean stories which foreground
the devonian paradoxes implicit in the possibility of Time travel
(there are devonian paradoxes implicit in the 'ordinary' conception of
time, for that matter). There was, so far as I remember, and I'm sure
that someone will correct me if I'm wrong (please do!) a disappointing
paucity of Doctor Who stories which involved time paradoxes or
anomalies.City of Deathfrom the Douglas Adams era strikes me as one of
the best stories on this theme. An alien split into twelve personae
(each stranded in a different era) mounts a crosstemporal plot
involving art forgery (six copies of the Mona Lisa). There was 'The
Time Monster' from the Pertwee era regarded by many as risible, but
which I think of as a delightfully psychedelic curio. Atlantis! The
Master! Ingrid Pitt! And a monster called a chronotope (what a
neologism). How could anything involving all those elements be
entirely bad? Still, it did little with the chronotope concept, and
the time theme wasn't really explored far beyond a few scenes of
hapless UNIT soldiers being temporally frozen.Emerald Daze further
explores the Limehouse hauntology.... Sax's "Limehouse" article was
the only clue they had, and not a very good one, since he had very
carefully avoided naming the places he visited. But to a man
intimately familiar with the dock area, the photographs might mean
something. Frank stared thoughtfully at a picture of what seemed to be
a restaurant, and glanced at the caption beneath. "Where East is
West." He grinned. Well, I'm pleased to see that the second episode of
Peep Show lived up to the promise of the first. I arrived home
slightly the worse for wear, just in time to catch it, so my memory
for killer lines and moments of excruciating embarrassment isn't what
it might have been. It's as if Chandler and Joey have been transported
from New York to Croydon, and given an unattractiveness makeover on
the trip over. David Mitchell's Mark is a less goodlooking, even
sadder, even more acerbic preMonica Chandler to Robert Webb's
Joeywithoutthecharm Jeremy. Like Chandler, Mark has some nondescript
office job; and, like Joey, Jeremy is a betweenjobs artist (although a
'musician' rather than an actor). But their relationship is ultimately
much more British, more brutish. Unlike Joey and Chandler, Mark and
Jeremy have no female friends with whom they feel remotely
comfortable. Denied this outlet, their mutual dependence and repressed
mutual loathing resembles the desperate Estragon and Vladimirinertia
of Steptoe and Son or Hancock and Sid James. Nothing happens, forever.
In this week's desperate master/slave dialectic, Mark, owed three
month's rent by Jeremy, 'swings him' an interview for a job as a
clerical assistant. Mark's reveries turn to the minor humiliations he
will be able to impose on his flatmate if he gets the job. Jeremy,
meanwhile, has the difficult task of performing well enough in the
interview to convince Mark that he wants the job whilst ensuring that
he doesn't get it. Cue acutely painful interview situation like, what
interviews aren't acutely painful? culminating in Jeremy trying to
pull his interviewer into the Pyramid selling scheme he has just been
conned into. Choice moments of horrible revelation: Listless Jeremy,
hunting through Mark's stuff while he is at work, searches for porn
and, fingering a pile of glossy magazines, he thinks he has 'hit the
motherlode', only to find that... they are Fantasy Gaming magazines.
And Mark, still hopelessly pursuing a woman in the office, leaves a
message on her answering machine. After rambling ineptly and
senselessly for a while, he bubbles 'I just called to say I .... like
you.' Pleased to see that both club and troubled diva are celebrating
the justannounced return of Dr Who. And I know that Angus will be
cheering, too. Can it be done successfully? The signs are not
encouraging. As everyone knows, the series was in decline long before
the plug was pulled. It couldn't survive the unforgiving light of the
eighties, and sloped off to die in embarrassed solitude. Tempting but
misleading to date the effective end as Baker's departure. Baker's
last season culminating in the peerless Logopolis('there will be no
future') was full of presentiments of doom, deep melancholy and Jerry
Corneliusstyle riffs on entropy. If you watch the stories from the
Davidson era now, though, (and they are currently being rerun on UK
Gold) you'll see that they were shadowed by a similarly bleak mood.
There was still enough imagination at work to generate stories that
were offkilter quirky and fascinatingly paradoxical. (Davidson's first
story 'Castrovalva' was named after an Escher painting, and was a 1982
BBC's attempt to generate a world collapsing [in on itself {in
Eschereque} recursion.]) Perhaps recursion and entropy are where all
mythos ends up, eventually. The Davidson period was the last time when
the series could thematic rather than fall victim to these self-
referential vortices. By the time of the arrival of Colin Baker, Dr
Who was nothing but a palimpsest of empty signifiers, circling around
its own entrails with diminishing returns. Take the clothes. The
brilliance of Hartnell, Troughton, Pertwee and Baker's wardrobes was
that in their different versions of estranged Edwardiana, outofplace
in any place, outoftime in any time their eccentricity was plausible.
The thing is, you could imagine someone looking like that. In that
respect, the rot had already set in with Davidson, whose cricketer's
whites too obviously looked like a uniform that only someone dressed
by the BBC's wardrobe Dept would wear. Colin Baker's question-mark
lapels and twocoloured coat, well, kinder to say nothing.... There was
also a problem with looks . The first four doctors had a naturally
alien quality. Davidson's problem was his winning, fresh-faced
toothsomeness; something intelligently offset by his reading of the
character as beset by an ancient melancholia. Colin Baker, on the
other hand, looked like a smug office manager in pantomime costume. He
had a solid, doughy ordinariness, more deadly to Dr Who than any
berman or Dalek. The point is, Dr Who was, at its best, uncanny, in
both Todorov's and Freud's terms. Todorov's typology of the Fantastic
famously distinguishes between the Marvellous the fallon supernatural
and the Uncanny in which the apparently supernatural is explained away
in terms of 'the laws of reason.' (The Fantastic proper has no
positive presence, and is defined as the hesitation between these two
other modes). The Pertwee period was particularly given to discoursing
on the supreme value of scientific enquiry (witness the Doctor's
attempts to tutor Jo Grant). Nigel Kneale's Quatermass and the Pit
which attempted to wholesale swallow Horror into SF by tracing a whole
slew of ostensibly supernatural phenomena back to
scientificallyplausible phenomena provided the template. The signature
Pertwee serial 'The Daemons' a more-or-less straightforward rewrite of
Kneale's story was only the most blatant Quatermass remix of the
Pertwee era. The absorption of Horror tropes into SF naturally had an
effect on Dr Who's science-fiction most notably in the period when
Philip Hinchcliffe was producer, when Dr Who went through a foggy,
bodily Gothic phase, in which Victorian Horror was BurkandHare
graverobbed and reanimated. The series was also uncanny in Freud's
sense. The uncanny, that species of dread evoked by the strangely
familiar, what is here but which should not be... Pertwee's famous
insistence that a 'yeti on a toilet seat in Tooting bec' was more
terrifying than an alien on the planet marg was borne out by the
furore caused by the episodes featuring the Autons. The autos very
Kraftwerk possessed showroom dummies and plastic chairs. Children were
mortified when these everyday objects objects which any way evoked a
frisson of uneasiness came to life. But more even than any of the
monsters, it was the Doctor himself, the familiar stranger, who was
unanny. The 96 revamp with Paul McGann and oodles of $ failed because
it couldn't muster this sense of the uncanny. Nor, more damagingly,
did it appear to realise that this was what the series' strength was.
The whole enterprise couldn't escape what it was: an American funded
attempt to graft some of the signatures elements of the original
series onto the standard format of an MOR American serial. McGann's
manic enthusiasm seemed formulaic rather than charismatically alien,
the chase scenes and the (eugghhhhh) love interest were perfunctory
and unnecessary but worst of all, really, were the sets. Money badly
spent. The TARDIS had become anonymously vast, all smoke, sulphur and
moody lighting, a blandly portentous sanctumcumspaceship straight out
of the mediocre dreams of Dungeons and Dragons Fantasy and mainstream
SF. russell T. Davies is to produce the new one, eh? Well, last year's
'The Second Coming' was rather brilliant in addition to the audacity
of its 'assisted suicide of God' denoument, it was genuinely,
shivering disturbing in parts. But what gives most hope is that 'The
Second Coming' rendered a sense of the otherworldly numinous in the
context of the drably contemporary. The uncanny, exactly. And
Christopher Eccleston as a Mancunian Christ was, all at once, intense,
selfdeprecating, charismatic and weird. What price Eccleston for the
role of the Doctor? I think of snow. Not only because of Atuishi
Fukui's delightful cover painting. It took barely two listens. Less,
maybe. The old flame changed, though not beyond all recognition had me
again. I'm burning Now I've lost count of how many times I've
succumbed. (Even though it can't be many. I know that, as yet, it
can't be more than four; but I'm already in that atomic time you fall
into when you encounter something loved. Life is now inconceivable
without it, so I imagine that is has always been there). You keep
putting it on. You lose yourself, easily, lose track of which track
you are listening to; no beat to mark out time, no verses, no
choruses, only insistently hesitant vocal refrains, unhurried by
rock's adrenal urgencies, only words that are dreamdisconnected,
dreamcryptic, dreamvivid. In the ice desert, the slightest
perturbation produces massive affect.... Recall the trembling
stillness that opens Talk Talk's Spirit of Eden ; the feedback shimmer
of 'How Soon is Now.' Imagine them denuded of even the attenuated r
and r release that they are allowed there; imagine their seemingly
infinite protection . Sylvian's Blemish , astonishingly, really is
every bit as entrancing as Marcello and the still absent Penman say it
is. astonishing not because I distrust their judgement very much to
the contrary but because I feared their wordsorcery had conjured a
phantom/ phantasy that no record could live up to. burning There's
nothing quite like Blemish : nothing in Sylvian's back catalogue,
nothing elsewhere. It's been described as 'vocal ambient' , an
accurate enough description, technically, but a little too anaemic,
not quite seductive enough. The same writer called it 'formless',
which is terribly misleading. Far from being chaotically unfocused,
Blemish has a glacial poise, a nearabsolute tension. And it is nearly
all guitar. Imagine that! Derek Bailey's scrabbles. Christian
Fennesz's glitchescapes. And mostly, the troubled waters, the uneasy
flailing of Sylvian's playing. Undercurrents. 'The Good Son', before
sylvia sings. Bailey scratching away like a deranged music box. Hints
of Kubrickian (Ligeti/ Penderecki) atonal dread. And then the
voice.... Don't try to make sense of it. It falls on me, on my face,
and my pulse is so slow now, I'm slowly delirious, barely
distinguishable from the landscape, and that's what I love, out here
in the white cold the flames are so bright. And it falls, until
there's not much of me left. It falls on me and I'm falling into
sleep, or deeper.... Well, here it is. kpunk's new home. Massive
thanks to Abe , not only for his generosity in giving punk space on
his site, but also for enduring my many incompetent technical requests
about Movable Type with apparently endless patience. "the periphery is
where the future reveals itself"J.G. Ballard I also think Wire and the
Banshees count as London since Watford and Bromley are in London's
orbit. Part of embracing the future is always rejecting the past; in
fact this applies to people who move from the "provinces" to the
"centre" as well. I was a bit surprised to see Luka argue that people
from the provinces always want to defend the provinces; surely it can
work the other way around as well, you can be over-eager to shake the
smalltown dust off your feet. Ballard is one of the few poets of the
suburbs. The more typical stance is to dismiss them as nonzones,
resting places (the phrase 'dormitory town' capturing this perfectly)
whose airy, mediocre pleasantness equates with an incurable
existential dullness, a fundamental inauthenticity . That, in fact,
would have very much captured my own discomfort about suburbia when I
was growing up in it: it never felt real . To us dreaming
suburbanites, the only Real Place in the country paradoxically because
of its hypermediatization was London. (This giving a slightly
different spin on Luka's claim that 'London is the only real city in
England.') And America, America was even more Real. We who lived in
the suburbs of towns that were themselves anonymous and mediocre were
exiles from the city's Real: insubstantial wraiths, resigned to our
status as nonbeings. The City is not the only Real. The Rural with
its, mighty, deep pastindifference to the ephemeral, its enduring
Time, in which 'things go on the same, though generations pass'
(Hardy) has its own claim to fundamental reality. As with the city, it
is the rural's aestheticization, its capacity for translation into
Art, that gives the countryside its impression of the real. The suburb
is neithernor, the bufferzones between these two Reals. When two years
ago (in flight from London logjam, in photosynthetic hunger for
greenery, in a curve back towards my childhood?) I moved to Bromley, I
was self-consciously fleeing the Real. Yet, upon my (sort of) return,
the suburban struck me as less unreal than, as Ballard has tirelessly
insisted, surreal . Streets that seem like collages brought to life,
full of strange incongruities that could only seem natural in the
senator stillness of the suburb. apartment complexes that resemble
seaside villas, looking out on a busy thoroughfare rather than the
ocean, as if they've been dumped there by one of those cosmic
collectors from Dr Who that would wrench lifeforms out of context and
reassemble them as carnival exhibits . Lawns so precisely manicured
that Lewis Carrol's Queen of Hearts could play croquet upon them. It's
all so excentric... Tempting to lapse into a lynchpin depth
psychoanalysis here (a weakness to which Ballard himself is often
prone): to shift from the ironic soft-focus idyll of the longshot into
the unforgiving grisly detail of the closeup, to look for the id
beneath the suburban superego. More interesting to recognize that the
surface is alreadypsychotic, that Nothing lies beneath.... For
Ballard, our assumption that cities are the future is an overhang from
nineteenth century modernism, a notion as quaintly, endearingly
outmoded as the prophecies of Jules Verne. With its concentration
density, its cramped streets, its unplanned sprawl, London is a
horsedrawn Victorian relic. To Ballard's delight, and to Iain
Sinclair's horror, the future is not the city, but the suburb. Unlike
the old population centres whether the ancient 'Roman shells' or the
relatively recent residual slag heaps of industrialism the suburbs
have been built with the car in mind. They thus give rise to the
developments which Sinclair abhors but cannon help be fascinated by:
hostess out-of-town retail parks and shopping complexes, nonplaces
accessible only by car, zones whose calculated, franchised
antilocality makes them resemble nothing so much as airports. Cities
recede like 19 C smog in the strip lit, purpose-built hygiene of
Bluewater, Kent.